K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy HSBC  Life (UK) Limited declined her income  protection claim. 
background
Miss M is a member  of her employers group income  protection policy. The policy pays a 
proportion of her income, if she is incapacitated  and unable to work. In August 2017, Miss M 
became absent  from work due to a flare up of her psoriatic arthritis  and fibromyalgia. She 
remained off work  for longer than the deferred  period, so she made  a claim under the policy  
for her loss of earnings. Miss M had a previous absence for bowel and stomach issues,  but 
she resumed her full contractual hours  in June 2017.
In January 2018, HSBC reviewed the initial medical evidence, and concluded there werent  
enough grounds to accept  the claim. They didnt deny  that Miss M was unwell but, they 
werent persuaded her illness prevented her from working. They asked for more information 
from her doctors which they received some  time later.  In summary HSBC noted  that 
Miss Ms illness was long standing, and shed previously been able to work with some 
adjustments. They also raised concerns  about  Miss Ms engagement  as shed missed some 
important medical appointments in relation to her condition.
Due to the inconclusive nature of the medical evidence, HSBC  arranged for an independent 
report to be completed in August 2018.  The report concluded that Miss Ms illness  wasnt 
preventing her from working  and it would be beneficial for her to get back to work. It was for 
this reason, HSBC  subsequently declined the claim.  
Miss M appealed the decision and provided  an occupational health  report to support her 
opinion. HSBC referred the report  to their medical team, but it didnt change  their thoughts 
about the outcome of the claim. In reaching this decision, they highlighted the self-reporting 
nature of the findings and the persuasive  nature of the independent medical report.
Our investigator concluded HSBC had applied the policy terms fairly and reached a 
reasonable decision based  on the available medical  evidence. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
HSBC agreed with the outcome, but Miss M didnt. She gave several  reasons for 
disagreeing, but in summary  she didnt  think her circumstances  and the medical evidence 
had been considered fairly.
Ive therefore  considered  the complaint afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Miss M has had such a difficult time recently. I can see that the events 
of the last few years  have had an impact on her emotionally and financially.
Ref: DRN34324012Miss M has raised  several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address  all of them  in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
how was HSBC required to consider  the claim?
Under the relevant rules  and appropriate  industry  guidelines HSBC was required to consider
Miss Ms claim promptly  and fairly. And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
During the first 24 months of a claim,  the own occupation definition of incapacity applies. 
After this time, a suited occupation definition applies. 
Ive focused on the own  occupation definition  as this applied when Miss Ms claim was 
considered.
Own occupation:  
Means you are unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform  the material and 
substantial duties of your own occupation  and is not following any other occupation 
Material and substantial duties are defined as:
Are those that are normally required for and/or form a significant  and integral part of 
your occupation which  cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by you or your 
employer 
Occupation is defined as: 
The occupation consisting of material and substantial duties that is performed in 
return for remuneration or has / is of remunerative  value. 
And illness means:
A set of medically  verified symptoms or a verified medical condition which you are 
experiencing and is recognised by the insurer, where the insurer takes into account  
medical opinion,  evidence, diagnostic procedures and medical best practice  at the 
time of the claim. The illness or injury must  be objectively demonstrated through  
appropriate medical evidence gathered at the time of the claim and throughout the 
duration of the claim and payment period.  
Considering the above, it isnt enough for the medial  evidence  to show  Miss M was unwell 
during the deferred period  or that she was signed  off work by her GP. There  needs to be 
evidence her illness prevented her from being  able to work.
did HSBC decline the claim  unreasonably?
Ive reviewed Miss Ms GP notes, but they provide limited information about the reasons she 
stopped working.  The notes say she had a flare up of psoriatic arthropathy,  but they dont 
explain why she felt she couldnt continue to work.
The GP has also explained that although he was satisfied Miss Ms illness impacted her 
daily activities, he wasnt able to comment on what this meant for her job role. He also said 
Ref: DRN34324013he believed  occupational health  would be better placed to comment, and the medical 
certificates were based on telephone requests. Considering this, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to request additional  medical information in relation to the claim.
Ive reviewed the Rheumatologists report dated  7 June 2018 and note that it states  as 
follows: 
For this lady, although  her pain is quite difficult to treat, we would  hope  that Miss M 
can continue to work. She may require certain help with particular tasks, for example, 
be allowed regular breaks from a desk job, and may struggle with significant or 
prolonged key board  use and prolonged sitting.  She would benefit from an ergonomic 
work station.
I think HSBC acted  reasonably by concluding  this report indicated  Miss M wasnt  prevented 
from working. However, as this report was based  on an appointment that took place in 
February 2018, they also acted appropriately by arranging for an independent medical report  
to take place.
Before completing the independent report,  the consultant was provided with a copy of     
Miss Ms GP records and medical reports to help him understand her medical history. He 
also met with Miss M in person to consider her symptoms.
The independent report says as follows: 
There is therefore no obvious objective reason why working in her role should cause 
her major problems Objective testing  with the grip strength dynamometer showed 
submaximal effort typical of fibromyalgia cases, which indicates a problem of 
engagement which  is likely to reflect her attempts  at engagement with treatment and 
engagement with work, as well as an exaggerated  perception and description of pain.
It also explains: 
She is therefore unlikely  to return to work  for the foreseeable future although doing 
so would actually  help her recovery While physically beneficial, her negative views 
about work, about the stresses she experienced while at work,  and the pressure on 
her to return now all represent a barrier to her recovery She may well find it easier  to 
engage with appropriate treatment and activity if there is no longer an expectation 
that she returns to her current employment.
As this report was completed  by a suitably qualified  independent medical expert, I dont think 
HSBC acted unreasonably by relying  on the recommendations within  it. This also means I 
dont think they acted unfairly  by declining the claim.
Im aware Miss M strongly  disputes the findings of the report, but there  arent any persuasive 
medical grounds to suggest it should be disregarded. Miss M has questioned the 
consultants experience, but Ive not seen  anything to suggest he wasnt  suitably qualified to 
complete the report. 
I also note that HSBC asked the consultant  to clarify  his experience  and confirm  his findings 
to put Miss Ms mind at ease. As the consultants findings remained the same,  this is all Id 
reasonably expect HSBC  to do under  the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34324014did HSBC consider the additional evidence fairly?
Miss M has provided an occupational health  report that took place in November  2018.  I can 
see this report was considered and HSBC  has explained the reasons it didnt change their 
decision. This is what Id expect them  to do and Im satisfied HSBC  took reasonable steps to 
assess the additional evidence they were provided with. I also think the reasons they 
provided were reasonable under the circumstances.
Miss M has also provided our service with a copy of a bone scan she completed in     
January 2019.  It shows she may have some increased evidence of activity in her joints and 
back which could be due to psoriatic  arthritis. Its unclear if this information has been 
considered by HSBC,  but it doesnt  change my decision  in any event. This is because the 
evidence isnt contemporaneous, and it doesnt  provide persuasive reasons to disregard the 
findings of the independent medical report.
Miss M has also said she feels it was inappropriate for HSBC to highlight  the fact she missed  
some medical appointments and to describe this as a lack of engagement.  I appreciate  this 
is an upsetting  issue for Miss M and she has provided reasons for her absences. But it was 
reasonable for HSBC to expect Miss M to attend appointments, so I dont think they acted 
unfairly by commenting  on this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3432401