K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Santander UK PLC, Alliance and Leicester (A&L) at the time, mis-sold her a life 
assurance and terminal  illness  policy in September 2006. 
background
Mrs S was sold the policy in a meeting  with A&L at the same time she took out further 
borrowing against her home. The policy was set to cover her for a total amount  of £58,400 
for 13 years on a level term basis.
Our adjudicator considered all the information  but didnt think  the policy was mis-sold. Mrs S 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mrs S says she was bullied and pressured  into taking out the policy as A&L was aggressive 
with its selling tactics.  She also says A&L told her if she took out the cover it would speed up 
the process of her loan application. Ive considered  everything Mrs S has said.  Although  I 
dont doubt what  she has told us are her honest  recollections of the sale,  I have to consider 
that the policy was sold a long time ago  around 13 years  ago  and memories can fade 
over time. And even though Mrs S has given us an account of what  was said to her at the 
time, pressure is a high bar, so without  evidence to support this allegation I cant fairly and 
reasonably uphold the complaint on this point.   
Ive looked carefully  at the documentation available  from the time of the sale.  Ive seen the 
notes from the meeting  which  recorded  the advice given to Mrs S at the time. This sets out 
that Mrs S was advised to take out a number of insurance policies but declined all of these 
except the life and terminal illness cover. The document also records  that life cover was 
something which was important to Mrs S as she wanted to make sure her family would have 
the money to pay off this borrowing if she were to die during its term. It also states that 
Mrs S wanted to take out more than the advised decreasing term policy  amount. This 
evidence suggests  Mrs S had a choice about the policies  and agreed  to take out cover  that 
suited her needs. 
Ive also seen a copy of the offer letter which clearly  states that no insurance policies are 
required to be taken  out with this borrowing. Mrs S told us that A&L said it was a good idea 
to take out the cover   and as this was an advised sale I think  its likely it told her this was 
something she should have but thats  different to saying its something she had to have. So 
overall I think Mrs S knew she didnt have to take out the policy and she chose to take it out. 
When recommending  the cover to Mrs S, the adviser should have made sure she had a 
need for this type of cover. And that the plan recommended met those needs. 
Mrs S had taken out a repayment mortgage so her outstanding balance wouldve  reduced 
with her monthly repayments.  A&L advised  Mrs S to take out a decreasing  term insurance  
policy for the same term and cover as the amount borrowed. But the documents from the 
sale record that Mrs S chose to take out additional cover and on a level term basis. So from 
Ref: DRN38882742the evidence Ive seen I think the advice was suitable and Mrs S made a choice to take out 
additional cover. 
There is evidence to suggest that Mrs S already had a life insurance cover at the time but we 
asked Mrs S for some  further details of the policy and at the time of writing no information 
has been received.  So I havent  seen any evidence to persuade  me that the 
recommendation made was unsuitable. 
Mrs S was solely responsible for the repayments  on her mortgage  and also had a son. 
Having the life cover in place meant  Mrs Ss loved ones would not be left with an outstanding 
mortgage debt had she unfortunately died during the life of this policy, and based on the 
evidence provided  from the sale, it seems  like this was important to Mrs S at the time. So 
overall I think the policy was suitable for her.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont think the policy was mi-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3888274