K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 with a 
credit card. Mr C says Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services  Plc (M&S)  mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr C says he doesnt recall much about  the way the PPI was sold but he would only have 
taken it if he was advised to do so. He adds the wording on the form such  as strongly  
recommended led him take it. M&S says Mr C chose to take it in-store  after completing an 
application form and it made the optional nature of the PPI clear. Where  there  is a dispute 
like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available. This includes  Mr Cs testimony as well as the documents  available. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Cs application form. In it, there was a separate  section for PPI 
broadly describing  the cover and setting  out cost details. Customers  had to tick a box to take 
PPI. And whilst the wording does  recommend  customers take it like Mr C says, nothing  on it 
says its compulsory or that customers had to tick this box. While I accept the wording 
mightve encouraged  Mr C to take the PPI, ultimately it does look like it was set out as an 
option. On Mr Cs form the box to take PPI has been  ticked  and hes signed the PPI section 
of the form to confirm  his selection. While this form mightve been completed in store,  I 
wouldve expected  Mr C to have looked over the form before singing it. 
So based  on what Ive seen, although Ive thought  carefully about what Mr C has said, I think 
its more likely M&S made it clear Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. 
Ive seen no evidence  that M&S assessed  Mr Cs individual circumstances to check  the 
policy was suitable  for him or that it made a tailored recommendation which  is what  we 
would expect in an advised sale. I appreciate Mr C is unhappy  that no assessment was 
made of his financial circumstances and he adds  the PPI was not sold by a financial advisor. 
But M&S did not have  to do this type of assessment,  and it was able to sell PPI on a non-
advised basis. I dont think the wording on the form hes mentioned in itself amounts to 
advice. 
Overall, I dont  think M&S advised Mr C to take the PPI. This means it didnt have to check if 
the PPI was right for him  but it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information he needed  
to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information M&S gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
Ref: DRN35897882would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable.
Mr C told us he had more  than 3 months sick pay provided by his employer and less than 3 
months of other means to help him make  his repayments should he have found himself 
unexpectedly out of work. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work because of illness or injury. And it also wouldve provided 
up to 12 months of cover for unemployment.  
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
So I dont  think this policy was mis-sold,  which means M&S doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3589788