K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that NRAM Limited  treated them unfairly in relation to their mortgage 
and unsecured loan accounts  in that it insists they remain on its standard variable rate 
product and hasnt  offered to help them.
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage and an unsecured loan with NRAMs 
predecessor, Northern  Rock. The interest rate on the mortgage and unsecured  loan was the 
same. Initially, the interest rate was fixed for five years. From 2012, Mr and Mrs S were  
charged interest at a variable rate, guaranteed to be less than the banks standard,  variable  
rate. 
Mr and Mrs S say that NRAM refused their requests for payment holidays in 2016 and 2018. 
They say that they are mortgage prisoners. They want compensation and a reduced or fixed 
interest rate. 
Our adjudicator explained that if Mr and Mrs S wanted to pursue their concerns about the 
sale of the mortgage, theyd  have  to take the matter up with the firm who recommended the 
mortgage and loan, which wasnt NRAM. 
The adjudicator didnt think that NRAM had treated  Mr and Mrs S unfairly.  He said that 
NRAM cant offer new products, as it isnt authorised to do so. The adjudicator  said that 
NRAM considered Mr and Mrs Ss requests for a payment holidays and didnt  act unfairly in 
refusing those requests. He said that Mr and Mrs S may wish to seek independent financial 
advice about rates available from other  lenders. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. They said that they are mortgage  
prisoners as theyve  been stuck with a high rate for years. Mr and Mrs S say that they have 
negative equity, so they cant find a mortgage with another lender. They say that theyve  
paid over the odds.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for much the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
NRAM didnt give Mr and Mrs S advice about taking out the mortgage  and loan, so it wasnt 
responsible for the initial sale.  
A bank  must deal fairly  with consumers in financial difficulty  but that doesnt necessarily 
mean that it must agree  to requests for payment holidays. 
When Mr and Mrs S asked for payment holidays, NRAM considered their requests. On both 
occasions, NRAM assessed Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances and found what it 
described as major  adverse information  on their credit files. It decided  that a payment 
holiday may make their position worse. I think that was a reasonable conclusion.  A payment 
holiday delays payment but doesnt address any underlying difficulty about affordability. I 
dont think NRAM treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly  in refusing payment holidays. 
Ref: DRN33073692NRAM is charging Mr and Mrs S according to the original offer of mortgage. As the 
adjudicator has explained,  it isnt authorised to offer new products. So I dont think  it would 
be reasonable to direct  NRAM to do so for Mr and Mrs S. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S and I appreciate that the situation they are in is 
frustrating but I dont think I can fairly ask NRAM to do anything differently. I would urge 
Mr and Mrs S to take advice about  what their options are. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3307369