K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (Ecclesiastical) has declined  a claim 
for damage  to a balustrade  and retaining wall at his home which he believes  was caused by 
subsidence. 
background
In late summer 2018 a baluster fell from the balustrade  in the central  part of Mr As home. 
Around the same time a section of the retaining boundary wall collapsed into a neighbouring 
property. 
Mr A raised a claim  through  Ecclesiastical for damage caused by suspected subsidence. 
Ecclesiastical instructed a firm of surveyors to assess  the damage. They  concluded that the 
wall hadnt  been  damaged by subsidence  and pointed to other potential causes, such  as 
pre-existing bowing of the wall, gradual  deterioration, a lack of expansion joints  or structural 
piers, among  others.  Based on this Ecclesiastical declined Mr As claim.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the report as it only addressed the damage  to the wall, not the 
balustrade. Ecclesiastical appointed a second  firm of surveyors to assess the damage  to the 
property. They also found no evidence of subsidence and suggested that the damage  had 
occurred gradually.  So Ecclesiastical maintained that the claim should be declined.  But it 
agreed to consider a further expert report if it was provided by Mr A.
Mr A remained unhappy,  so he brought his complaint  to our service. He also provided  a third 
surveyors report. This report stated that the hot, dry weather coupled  with the location of a 
tree close  to the wall could indicate  that subsidence had occurred. It also said that some 
damage to the balustrade could be consistent  with subsidence. But it said further intrusive  
investigations would be required  to identify if subsidence actually occurred.
Ecclesiastical reviewed  the new report but maintained declinature  of the claim. So our 
investigator considered  all of the information  available and provided her assessment of 
Mr As complaint. She thought Ecclesiastical had acted fairly in obtaining two reports  and 
said the reports highlighted  faults  that were already present. She thought Mr As report  was 
less persuasive as it didnt actually find that subsidence had occurred only that further 
investigation was needed to confirm  the cause. She didnt think it was fair to expect 
Ecclesiastical to pay for further  reports as it is Mr As responsibility  to show that he has a 
valid claim. So she didnt  recommend that Ecclesiastical should  do anything  further.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators assessment. So because no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is more likely, in light of the evidence 
available.
It isnt in dispute that Mr A suffered damage at his property. What  is in dispute is whether  the 
damage was caused by subsidence, and whether Ecclesiasticals decision to decline Mr As 
claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN37553062Mr As policy  doesnt cover subsidence  damage to boundary walls unless the main building  
was damaged at the same time. It also doesnt  cover damage caused by wear and tear or 
any gradual cause.  Ive carefully  considered  these  points alongside the expert  evidence  
provided by both sides.
Although each of the expert  reports comment on the damage to the wall, Ill focus primarily 
on the findings related to the balustrade.  This is because even if I were to accept that the 
damage to the wall was caused by subsidence,  it would only be covered if the damage to the 
balustrade was also caused by subsidence at the same time.
Ecclesiasticals report  found  that there was some slight  cracking of external walls.  But it said 
this was minor damage it considered to be longstanding and not indicative of a recent 
occurrence of subsidence. The cracking  was also not in the area of the balustrade collapse. 
It also said there is limited evidence of high level or internal cracking  to suggest that there  
had been recent or active subsidence.  The report concluded that there was a widespread 
issue of instability identified to the balustrade which was most likely made worse by 
corrosion of the iron connectors used  to secure  it.
Mr As report  found that it was impossible to rule out that subsidence occurred without 
intrusive soil investigations. But it said that dry weather conditions and the location of a 
nearby tree could indicate that subsidence  occurred  near the wall. It said these dry 
conditions could mean that similar movement was happening beneath the house  although 
there was no nearby  vegetation so the level of movement would be less. However, it said 
that a small amount of movement near the foundations could cause significant horizontal 
movement at height. So it said the baluster falling could be evidence of foundation  
movement or rotation,  but further,  intrusive  investigation would be needed  to confirm or deny 
the hypothesis.
Having taken into account the evidence  provided by both sides,  I dont think  I can fairly 
conclude that the damage  was, on the balance of probabilities, most likely caused  by 
subsidence. I say this because Mr As report doesnt  actually make  a finding that subsidence 
occurred. Just that it was possible. It also doesnt  comment on why subsidence is more likely 
to be the cause than the areas  of pre-existing damage/deterioration highlighted in the earlier  
reports.
While Ecclesiasticals reports havent categorically stated that there  wasnt  subsidence, they 
have highlighted  the absence of some  damage you would likely expect to see if there had 
been subsidence, such as the lack of high level or internal cracking in the area of the 
balustrade, or the lack of cracks through mortar or masonry of the lower part of the boundary  
wall. I find these points to be the most persuasive  evidence Ive seen. The reports  also 
highlight areas  of pre-existing damage/gradual deterioration, to both the wall and balustrade, 
which Ecclesiastical  believes have caused  the damage, and which  arent covered by Mr As 
policy.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im not persuaded that subsidence is the most likely cause 
of damage to Mr As property. Taking  everything  into account I think  Ecclesiastical has acted 
fairly and reasonably in its handling of Mr As claim. So I wont  be recommending  that it does 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN37553063my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755306