K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed their bank accounts. 
background
Mr and Mrs P had been customers with HSBC  for many years. In June 2018 they received a 
letter from HSBC telling  them that, following a review, it would be closing their bank accounts  
and it gave them two months notice of this taking place. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with 
this and wanted to know why HSBC  had made  this decision. But HSBC didnt provide any 
more detail. 
On 16 August 2018, Mr and Mrs P wrote to HSBC advising  they were  opening  new accounts 
with another bank but they needed their existing  accounts to remain  open  for a further 14 to 
21 days while this was arranged. However,  HSBC closed their accounts following the end of 
the original time frame  and issued a cheque  for the balance. Mr and Mrs P say they missed  
some of their direct debits  as a result and this caused them  embarrassment.  So, unhappy 
with the situation, Mr and Mrs P brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the closure of Mr and Mrs Ps accounts 
was in line with the personal  banking terms and conditions. He referred  to the terms which 
state HSBC doesnt have  to give a specific reason for closing the account. Our investigator  
also said HSBC made it clear in their initial letter that the accounts would be closed on 21 
August 2018 unless  they received alternative  instructions,  including  a request to switch the 
accounts to another bank, by 11 August 2018. As HSBC didnt receive  the instructions to 
switch the accounts until 20 August 2018,  and hadnt agreed to provide  an extension to the 
closure date, he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs P disagree with the investigators opinion. So the complaint has now been 
passed to me for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs P and Ill 
explain my reasons for reaching  this outcome.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P want to know the reason why HSBC have closed their 
accounts - but HSBC  is not obliged to give them  any details. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions that apply to their accounts. This document says HSBC can close  accounts  by 
giving at least two months notice  and it doesnt have to give a reason for the closure unless 
the account is a Basic  Bank Account  Mr and Mrs Ps accounts were  not Basic  Bank  
Accounts. From the details Ive seen, HSBC gave Mr and Mrs P just over two months notice 
of  its intention to close  down their accounts  so it acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions Mr and Mrs P agreed to when  they took out their bank accounts with HSBC.  So 
while I can appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ps frustration, I havent found anything  which  shows 
HSBC has made a mistake or treated them unfairly by deciding  to close their accounts.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy HSBC closed  their accounts even though  it was aware  they 
were switching their accounts to another bank. Mr and Mrs P wrote to HSBC on 16 August 
2018 to advise they were going to another provider on 20 August 2018 to switch  their 
Ref: DRN39303142accounts. The account switching process  usually takes seven days to complete  
Mr and Mrs P had left one day before the closure  of the HSBC accounts for this process  to 
happen. HSBC  advised Mr and Mrs P in a letter dated 20 August 2018 this was too late - 
HSBCs original notice of closure letter said it would close the accounts unless it received 
alternative instructions  by 11 August  2018  - and it said it wouldnt delay the closure of the 
accounts. 
Mr and Mrs P sent us copies of letters received  from HSBC  dated 21 August  2018 
confirming it had received the switch request - this caused  them to think  it would go through. 
HSBC said these letters are issued automatically by the system when a switch  request is 
received. Ive thought about  this carefully  and, while it is unfortunate these letters  were  sent,  
I think HSBC had already  made it clear in previous correspondence the date of the deadline 
and that it would not delay  the closure.  As the automated switch acknowledgement letters 
wouldnt have been received by Mr and Mrs P until after the closure  date, I think they would  
have already been aware that this switch was unlikely to occur. So I dont think HSBC has to 
compensate Mr and Mrs P for any problems they incurred following the closure of their 
accounts. 
So when taking  everything into consideration, I think HSBC has acted within the terms of its 
agreement when make  the decision to close Mr and Mrs Ps bank accounts and I dont think  
it has done anything  wrong by closing  the account on the date it said it would. So I dont find 
that HSBC has to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3930314