K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that the Broadlands Partnership (BP) arranged  for the transfer of his existing 
pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) to enable an investment into an 
unregulated, non-standard investment (Harlequin). Mr B says that this investment was 
unsuitable for him and BP should  have known that. He also says that it did not warn  him of 
the risks of investing  in Harlequin or non-standard investments and did not warn  that 
investing so much of his pension savings in such an investment  was unsuitable.  
 
background
BP gave advice  to Mr B in August  2010 concerning a SIPP to receive transfers  from Mr Bs 
existing personal  pension schemes. Most  of the money transferred was then invested in a 
Harlequin offshore  unregulated property investment scheme. 
BP did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that its adviser had reviewed Mr Bs pension  
arrangements with respect  to setting up the SIPP. The adviser was told that Mr B had taken 
advice from his son about investing  in Harlequin  it was his sons advice  that led to the 
investment. It only gave advice on a SIPP  to use so the investment could be made. It was its 
understanding that Mr B had already taken and accepted  advice from his son. It was not 
responsible for that advice.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  He 
upheld the complaint. The adjudicator said that BP should have taken into account both the 
SIPP and the intended investment (which BP was aware of) when giving advice. The two 
could not be separated. It should have been aware that the Harlequin  investment was 
unlikely suitable  for Mr B and would only likely be suitable for experienced investors.  The 
adviser should have considered the risks of Harlequin and explained  them to Mr B. He 
should have advised Mr B against  transferring. 
He did not believe  the business  that Mr Bs son worked for and promoted the investment 
was authorised to give regulated advice and the BP adviser would have been aware of this. 
Mr B had confirmed that his dealings at that firm were primarily with another  individual,  not 
his son. 
BP did not agree with the adjudicators assessment. It referred to a Letter of Understanding 
(LOU) issued by the SIPP provider which set out the risks of investing in overseas off-plan 
property. It said that Mr B was aware of the risks and decided to proceed in the full 
knowledge of them. It said Mr B was an insistent  client who had been  impressed by the 
Harlequin promotion he had attended. 
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to alter his view.  He reiterated that the BP adviser did 
not consider the suitability of the Harlequin investment as he should have done and he 
should have been advised against investing. He had also discovered the Mr B's ReAssure 
pension had a Guaranteed  Annuity Rate (GAR) applying and therefore  he should have been  
advised to remain  with ReAssure. He suggested  that BP should calculate and pay redress.
BP did not agree. It said the risks had been disclosed and, in addition,  Mr Bs son received a 
substantial payment when Mr B reserved his Harlequin property. It said this would have 
influenced Mr Bs decision  to invest and he would have invested whatever advice he 
received from BP, especially bearing  in mind the disclosure or risks in the LOU.  It also 
mentioned other decisions  made by this service  which supported  its position.  
Ref: DRN30555162BP subsequently provided an email  from the unregulated  introducer  stating that a 
commission payment of £2,000 had been made to Mr Bs son in respect  of the Harlequin  
investment that Mr B made.  
Information was sought from Mr Bs son and he said that he was self-employed  since  2009. 
He had a professional working relationship  with the Harlequin  promoter  between  2009 and 
2011. He says he wasnt an agent for them but a Business Development Manager who 
would occasionally  fulfil administration roles for the promoter. He said the promoter  started 
offering Harlequin  to its clients. It would host seminars at which  Harlequin was promoted. 
The attendees who wished  to proceed  to invest were  referred  to BP to facilitate the SIPP  
required. He did not invite his father to invest in Harlequin; Harlequin was being advertised in 
the office which his father  sometimes visited. He does not recall completing  the Harlequin  
reservation form for his father or receiving the £2,000 payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the scope of the advice
BP has said that it limited the scope of its advice to recommending a SIPP  for the transfer of 
Mr Bs pensions  which would then enable Mr B to make the investment he wished to. It has 
drawn attention  to the Recommendation Report which  it say confirms that it was only giving 
advice as to an SIPP so as Mr B could make the investment he wished  and he had been  
advised to make by a third party promoter  of Harlequin. 
It says it made it clear to him that it was not advising on the investment to be made within  the 
SIPP. I agree there are warnings to that effect  in the Recommendation Report. 
However BP had a duty under the relevant rules, in particular  COBS 2 and COBS  9, set out 
by the FSA and now Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), to act in Mr Bs best interests, know 
its client and give suitable advice. In my view it could not so without taking account of the 
investment which  the SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason for the creation of 
the SIPP and the transfer was to enable the property investment to take place   the BP 
adviser knew this and has made statements  to that effect in the Recommendations Report.  
BP has said that Mr B had been introduced to it by another entity. And it was its 
understanding that it had given Mr B advice  on the investment or would provide that. It says 
it was this promoter or Harlequin agent that had already sold the idea of the Harlequin 
property investment to him. BP says Mr B was introduced to it to facilitate a SIPP which  had 
the potential to allow the property investment. 
 
However it is my view that in order to give suitable  advice under COBS  9 as to the SIPP,  BP 
would have to take into account  the investment itself, for which the SIPP was created and 
was the reason for the whole arrangement going ahead. The SIPP advice cannot  be 
artificially separated from the investment  to follow as suggested by BP, even if it thought 
another party was also providing advice. BP has its own responsibilities when providing the 
advice on the SIPP to make sure its responsibilities  are discharged  and it cannot simply 
ignore those responsibilities.  If that means that it is duplicating  advice  elsewhere  as BP 
believes it is then that is caused simply by the nature of the advice it is providing. It cannot  
Ref: DRN30555163discharge its own regulatory responsibilities  by saying that another party is undertaking that 
duty.     
I note BPs submissions about  limiting  the scope of its advice and informing Mr B of that. I 
agree there might be circumstances where it is appropriate to limit the scope of advice and 
where that would  not necessarily conflict with a businesss obligations to act in the best 
interests of its client and provide suitable advice.  But those circumstances do not exist here.  
It was not possible  to provide suitable advice and act in Mr Bs best interests in a situation  
where BP knew the destination of the funds (Harlequin overseas commercial  property)  and 
the SIPP were clearly linked. I am not persuaded  that BP can limit its regulatory obligations 
in this way. If BPs felt that it could not give advice on the investment based on the 
information it had then it should  have  declined to give any advice at all.   
And Im also mindful that in January 2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases  we have  seen  tend to operate under a similar advice model. An introducer  will 
pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. 
an overseas property development).  When the customer expresses an interest  in the 
unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated  financial adviser to 
provide advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the unregulated  investment.  The financial 
adviser does not give advice  on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable  of holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated  
financial adviser also assists the customer to unlock  monies held in other investments so 
that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer  out 
of a current pension  arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas property 
investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form 
part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  
its underlying holdings, is more suitable  for the customer then the SIPP  is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable 
investment in unregulated  items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms,  in particular financial adviser  and SIPP Operators to report 
those FSA firms  that are carrying  on these  activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation that had not 
applied previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already applied, and which were in 
place in 2010 when the advice was given.
My view is not dependent on comments  made  by the industry regulator as to the type of 
process BP carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent  view based  on the 
Ref: DRN30555164circumstances of the complaint and take into account the rules,  law and good practice in 
place at the time to arrive at decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But 
my view is consistent with general comments from the regulator about  this type of process  
that consideration should be given when advice  is given to transfer a SIPP,  to the suitability 
of the overall proposition  both SIPP and investment to be taken out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being given 
about a SIPP to invest in overseas property. It said that where  an adviser recommends a 
SIPP knowing that the customer will sell current investments to fund overseas property then 
the suitability of that investment must be taken into account.  
I would reiterate that I do not agree  that simply because the regulators alerts were  given 
after BP gave its advice  that they are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight the existing 
obligations (which  applied at the time this advice was given) when giving advice such as this. 
It was not setting out new standards  for businesses to follow.      
the suitability  of the advice  
Having decided that BP needed to take into account the suitability of the investment the 
SIPP was set up to facilitate, I have then considered the advice Mr B was given. 
Mr B transferred three pensions with Standard Life, Windsor Life (now Reassure) and Pearl  
Assurance (now Phoenix)  totalling about  £40,000 to the SIPP in 2010. As discussed by the 
adjudicator, the ReAssure  pension had a GAR applying.   
In the Fact Find Mr B was noted as being  Medium  risk in respect of pensions.  He was 
noted as being Moderately adventurous on the Recommendation Report. This was 
described as: 
You are prepared to take more risks with your investment in return for the prospect of better  
longer term investment performance.  You are looking for an investment that has the 
potential to produce above  average  longer term returns, which is likely to involve a high 
proportion of worldwide  company  shares.  You appreciate that over some periods of time 
there can be sharp falls, as well as rises,  in the value of your investment and you may get 
back less than you invest.
This was one level below the highest grading of adventurous. 
There was a note in the fact find: 
From our meetings and discussions you have agreed that the following aims
and objectives  are important to you: - 1)Regular face to face reviews  2)To
amalgamate all of your pension provision with one SIPP  provider to facilitate
the property purchase  3) To access a competitively charged contract. As a result
my recommendation is to transfer the accrued benefits to another provider's
pension contract, which will allow you to make the property purchase you
desire. It was essential to find a SIPP provider who could facilitate your
property purchase and the one which I am recommending is (SIPP provider).
BP went on to recommend a SIPP and an application was made, dated 24 August 2010.
A payment for the Harlequin investment was made from the SIPP in October 2010.
Ref: DRN30555165Mr B was a self- employed bathroom installer earning £25,000 per year. He was noted as 
having a Buy-To- Let property worth £90,000  with a mortgage of £45,000. Mr B has also said 
he had an ISA worth £35,000.
The Harlequin investment was an off plan unregulated speculative  overseas property 
investment. It was high risk and the investor  faced the real possibility of losing all their 
money. Because it was unregulated Mr B did not benefit from the protection afforded by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. His circumstances do not indicate  that he was 
prepared to lose all his money or that he was suited  to the risks this investment  presented.  
Generally speaking, unregulated investments such as Harlequin would only be suitable for 
professional or experienced investors.  
Mr Bs previous pensions  were invested in mainstream collective equity funds. He had no 
recorded experience of high risk, unregulated investments and his attitude  to risk would not 
indicate that he was suitable for such investments. The attitude  to risk gradings that have 
been recorded vary but neither of the gradings would justify this high risk investment. And 
the risk level description in the Recommendation Report bears little relationship to the actual 
investment Mr B was making and specific risks he was taking. 
It does not seem to be disputed that Mr B approached BP with the Harlequin  property  
investment. But that was likely a result of a previous promotion of that investment to him by 
the Harlequin agent or promoter  Mr B had not arrived  at this decision on his own. 
Mr Bs investment experience was limited  and does not suggest that he was an experienced 
investor who could  appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would not be reliant on 
BP to give him suitable advice or consider his best interests. I have not seen that he was 
advised by BP of any of the risks of the investment, there was no guidance  or advice  in the 
Recommendation Report of that nature , including  that it was unregulated,  he could lose all 
his money and did not benefit from the regulatory  protection discussed. 
The value of Mr Bs pension funds was relatively modest at about £40,000. The material 
issue is that the majority  of that money was placed  in Harlequin. It should have been  clear in 
any event that placing  such  a proportion of the value of the pension into one particular asset 
was unsuitable   because of the lack of any diversification. And here the money  was 
invested in one overseas unregulated high risk asset. That was not suitable advice and it 
was not suitable to recommend the transfer  and setting up of this SIPP on this basis.    
As discussed, the adviser knew that Mr B was intending to invest the majority of his pension 
funds in Harlequin and based  on what it knew about  his experience,  circumstances and 
assets, it should have known that it was unlikely to be suitable for him. He should have been 
advised against investing in it. It is also relevant  that one of the pensions  had a GAR 
applying  a valuable benefit which was lost on transfer. I have not seen any evidence  BP 
told Mr B about this. 
Bearing all this in mind I do not believe  the Harlequin investment was suitable for him and 
BP should have advised him of that.
did BP cause Mr Bs loss
Ref: DRN30555166Mr B was involved  in bathroom fitting.  He was not a financial adviser. He was dependent  on 
BP to give him suitable advice and act in his best interests. I do not believe he could assess  
the risks of investing  in Harlequin for himself. 
If BP had advised Mr B that he should not transfer  or invest in Harlequin  I think  it more likely  
that he would have taken account of that advice  and it would have been persuasive, coming 
from a professional regulated financial adviser.  I think it would lead to him questioning the 
appropriateness of investing. 
I have considered carefully what BP has said about  the involvement of Mr Bs son and that 
this would have  been the motivation  for Mr B investing whatever  recommendation BP made. 
It is clear that Mr Bs son did have some  form of association with the business promoting  
Harlequin that Mr B dealt  with and would seem  to have entered  into an agreement with it to 
source investors for overseas property purchase. The promoter  has said that Mr Bs son was 
involved in Mr Bs investment and received  a commission payment. Mr Bs son disputes this 
and Mr B says that he does not recall his son receiving any payment and his son was not 
involved. 
It is possible that Mr Bs son was involved in the investment and, given  his association with 
the promoter, may well have received  a commission payment. If so that would have likely 
influenced to some extent  Mr Bs decision to invest  in that there  would be some associated 
benefit to the investment. The crucial matter  then is to consider if this would have meant that 
Mr B would have proceeded with the investment  even if BP had advised against it and 
informed him fully of all the risks. On balance I do not think it likely he would have 
proceeded.
I say this as, even if his son was to receive  some  benefit, advice from a professional 
regulated business about  the operation and risks of the investment, advice that this 
investment was not suitable for him and that he could lose the majority of his pension funds, 
would likely  have altered his decision to invest.  I believe  that would have influenced Mr B 
more than the fact that his son would receive  an ancillary benefit. 
I do note that Mr B was provided with an LOU by the SIPP  provider (not BP), which provided 
general information about some of the risks of investing in overseas property. But there  was 
no advice about  the suitability of the Harlequin  investment for Mr Bs specific  circumstances 
or why it was not advisable for him to invest in it. My view remains  that if BP had provided 
full and balanced advice about the Harlequin investment and why it was not suitable for Mr B 
then more likely he would  not have proceeded to invest. 
 
It follows that he would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, his pensions  to 
the SIPP. So neither the SIPP  nor the investment  would have taken place but for BPs 
recommendation. Consequently any loss Mr B has suffered  through  transferring to the SIPP 
and investing  in Harlequin has been  caused by BPs advice.     
I have noted BPs reference to other  decisions issued by this service  about investment in 
overseas property. I would confirm  that each case is considered on its particular facts.  In this 
case, as discussed, I do not believe Mr B would have proceeded with the investment if 
properly advised.  
 
Ref: DRN30555167Im aware that a party  involved with Harlequin Property had been  charged with fraud 
offences. A court might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly  from BPs 
unsuitable advice.  And on this basis, a court might not require BP to compensate Mr B  
notwithstanding the clearly unsuitable advice. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited  to the position  a court might take.
It may be there  has been a break in the chain of causation. That might mean it wouldnt be 
fair to say that all of the losses suffered flowed from the unsuitable advice. That will depend 
on the particular  circumstances of the case. No liability will arise for an adviser  who has 
given suitable  advice even if fraud later takes  place. But the position is different where the 
consumer wouldnt have  been in the investment  in the first place without the unsuitable 
advice. In that situation, it may be fair to assess compensation on our usual basis   aiming  
to put the consumers in the position they would have been in if theyd been given suitable  
advice.
In this particular  case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award, 
given the specific  circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr B would not have made the 
Harlequin Property investment had it not been for the failings of BP. If the adviser had given 
Mr B suitable advice, the Harlequin Property  investment would not have been  made.  And I 
consider that the advice given by the adviser completely disregarded Mr Bs interests. As a 
direct result of the advisers failure to give suitable  advice, Mr B invested his pension into a 
specialised, unregulated investment with a limited  track record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold BP responsible for the whole of the loss 
suffered by Mr B. I am not asking BP to account for loss that goes beyond  the consequences  
of its failings. I am satisfied those  failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  I 
am not able to determine. However, that fact should  not impact  on Mr Bs right to 
compensation from BP for the full amount of the loss.
fair compensation
As discussed, I think with suitable advice Mr B would have kept his existing pensions. But its 
unlikely to be possible for BP to reinstate  Mr B into his previous  pension schemes. 
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award. While I 
understand Harlequin Property will allow BP to take over the investment from Mr B, the 
involvement of third parties   the SIPP  provider  and Harlequin Property  means much of 
this is beyond this service or the BPs control.  
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and 
unlikely that the contract  and any future payments would be enforceable  but I cant be 
certain of that.
Ref: DRN30555168While its complicated to put Mr B back in the position he would have  been  in if suitable 
advice had been given, I think its fair that he is compensated now.  I dont think we should 
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out 
below is a fair way of achieving this. 
I have taken into account that one of Mr Bs pensions had the benefit  of a GAR  and also that 
he was unhappy  with the performance of the Pearl (Phoenix) plan. With respect  to the latter, 
as the evidence would indicate  that Mr B would likely have switched funds to have the 
potential of better returns, I have suggested a comparative index to use from the date the 
pension was transferred  to the SIPP. 
 In summary,  BP should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer values  of Mr Bs previous pension plans, as at date of 
my final decision, if they not been  transferred to the SIPP.  
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Bs SIPP,  including 
any outstanding  charges. 
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer  value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
In addition, BP should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr B to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Bs previous pension plans if they had not been 
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of this decision.
BP should ask Mr B's former pension providers to calculate the notional transfer values that 
would have applied  as at the date of this decision had he not transferred  his pensions but 
instead remained invested. With respect  to the ReAssure plan, to allow for
the value of the GAR this value should  be increased by a factor  equal  to GAR/CAR.
Where GAR is the guaranteed annuity rate that would be available on the plan at
age 60 and CAR is the current  annuity rate that would generally be available on the
same basis  as the GAR. To determine  the value  rates on a single life, level pension  with a 
five year guarantee basis should be used.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuations then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
With respect to the Phoenix plan, the value as at the date of transfer to the SIPP should be 
revalued in line with the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income  Total Return Index to the date of 
this decision. I have used this index  because it is not possible to say precisely  what  funds 
might have been recommended. But I have used this index because it would be a fair 
Ref: DRN30555169measure for someone  who was prepared to take a reasonable level of risk to get a higher 
return. The mix and diversification provided  within the index is close  enough to allow me to 
use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
BP should assume  that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of the decision of Mr Bs SIPP,  including any 
outstanding charges.  
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
3.Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value  is increased  to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, BP should  pay it as a cash  
sum to him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.The notional  allowance  should  be 
calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement.
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had BP given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr B 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, BP should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest 
way of putting Mr B back in the position  he would have been in. But the ownership of the 
Harlequin Property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at 
some point, but I dont  know  when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.  
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BP pays  Mr B an upfront  lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees), or 
undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, BP may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to 
give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin Property 
investment in that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any 
party as a result of the investment. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount he may 
receive. BP will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If it asks Mr B to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded by this decision may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking. 
Ref: DRN305551610If, after five years, BP wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any 
future payments under the Harlequin Property  investment, it must agree to pay any further 
future SIPP fees. If BP fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr B should  then have the option of trying 
to cancel the Harlequin Property contract  to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, BP is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr B of any claim Mr B 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin Property 
investment. If BP chooses to take an assignment  of rights,  it must  be effected before 
payment of compensation is made. BP must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr B 
for his consideration and agreement. 
5.Pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date Broadlands  receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Broadlands  to pay Mr B this compensation.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order that Broadlands Partnership calculate  and pay 
compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2017.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3055516