K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision,  which  I issued in 
March 2019. Ive attached  it here and it forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to make any further  comments, or provide further evidence.  NatWest 
had nothing further to add; Mrs S did not respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add in relation to my decision, I dont see any reason 
to change my overall conclusions.
However, I have noted that NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S 
because when the policy was sold, NatWest expected  to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about  that. 
Because NatWest  didnt  tell Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest  has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN38743382my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I dont think  the policy was mis-sold,  so National 
Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. 
National Westminster Bank Plc has paid back to Mrs S the commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I think that is fair, and I do not award any 
further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Provisional decision
background
Ref: DRN38743383Mrs S took out a credit card with NatWest  in 2003. At the same  time she bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve helped cover  her repayments for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt  work. It also 
offered life cover. 
Mrs S says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. She says she didnt  need it.
The adjudicator thought that a term of the policy hadnt been explained properly  to Mrs S, and that if it 
had been she wouldnt  have bought the policy. The adjudicator recommended  that Mrs Ss complaint 
be upheld. NatWest  disagrees,  so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs S filled out an application form for the credit card. NatWest has provided a copy  of the form and I 
can see from this theres a separate section  for PPI. It makes it clear  theres  a choice about buying  it. 
Theres a tick in the box indicating that it is required, and Mrs S has signed this form.  There are other 
products sold in a similar way on the form, but none  of these has been selected.
So, on the limited information I have  I think  Mrs S bought the PPI knowing  she had a choice  about it, 
although I understand  why she wouldnt  remember  this over 15 years  later. 
NatWest didnt give Mrs S a personal  recommendation  to buy the PPI, so it didnt have  to make sure it 
was right for her. But it did need to make sure Mrs S got all the information she needed to make an 
informed decision.  
The adjudicator thought that NatWest didnt give Mrs S enough information. I agree with the 
adjudicator here.  There is very little information about the PPI on the application  form and I think its 
likely Mrs S wouldnt have had a full understanding of the cost and benefits of the policy. 
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I have to think about whether 
Mrs S wouldve acted  differently and not bought the policy  if shed had all the information she needed.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs S wouldnt have bought  the policy, because  there was an exclusion 
for some existing medical conditions  in the terms which  werent brought to Mrs Ss attention. Mrs S 
had experienced a medical condition about 11 years  before  the sale, and the adjudicator thought  that 
this condition wouldve been excluded from future claims,  and that if Mrs S understood this she 
wouldnt have bought the policy. 
I disagree. Looking at the term I think it only excluded medical conditions which  were in existence  or 
being investigated in the 12 months before taking the policy out. The terms say that the policy  wont 
pay out for any claim related to:
Any medical condition  for which treatment had been given or diagnosis had been made
or investigations commenced during  the 12 months immediately before  your
commencement date.
Mrs S confirmed to NatWest during its initial investigations into her complaint that she hadnt had any 
medical conditions of note, other  than minor  illnesses,  in the 12 months before the sale. The condition 
that she experienced about  11 years  before the sale had resolved and had not troubled her for a 
considerable time. 
Ref: DRN38743384So even if Mrs S had understood the exclusion for the policy I dont think it wouldve made her decide 
to not take the policy. So Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint on this basis.
It doesnt  look like Mrs S was affected by any of the other terms which  mightve made it more  difficult  
for her to make a successful  claim. For example, she wasnt self-employed.  So it wouldve been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Mrs S chose to take out the cover,  and I think shed  have 
understood it was intended  to cover  her repayments if she couldnt work. If Mrs S thought  she had 
enough existing  cover from her own resources, like sick pay or savings,  she didnt need to buy the 
policy. I also havent seen  anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs S.
So I dont think Mrs S lost out as a result  of anything NatWest did wrong.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint, so it follows that if my decision becomes final that 
National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt have to pay any compensation.
I will consider any further representations made by either party  received before 14 April 2019,  before I 
make my final decision.
Ref: DRN3874338