K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs K are directors of a company who Ill call, S Ltd. Mr L has brought  this 
complaint to our service, on behalf of S Ltd. Mr L complains that First Merchant Processing  
(Ireland) Limited (trading  as AIB Merchant Services) (who  Ill refer to as AIB)  have been 
applying daily charges of $25.00 and $30.00 to monies being received into S Ltds  USD 
account with its bank, who Ill call M. Mr L says he never agreed to pay these charges and 
wasnt given any advance  notice  of them, before they were applied  by AIB. Mr L wants AIB 
to refund all of the charges. 
background
On 10 March 2019, Mr L complained to AIB about a fee of $25 which was being  applied daily 
to US dollar funds  received  into S Ltds bank account with M. In some instances,  the amount  
of the fee increased to $30.
AIB issued their final response  on 15 March  2019 confirming that they werent applying any 
such charge. They  sent Mr L statements and a batch breakdown to show that all of the funds  
received by AIB were  transferred  to S Ltds account  without any deduction. AIB couldnt say 
which bank had been applying the charge  but observed that S Ltd was settling US dollar 
transactions in a GBP bank account  and suggested  that might explain why the charges were 
being applied.  
Mr L wasnt happy with AIBs response  so he brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and obtained  detailed records from the different 
financial businesses involved in the transactions. On 6 August 2019 our investigator  issued 
her view not upholding the complaint, as, after carefully examining all of the evidence, she 
didnt agree that AIB had applied the daily charges. She explained that the breakdown  of the 
SWIFT transactions where US dollar  charges  had been applied, showed  the charges were  
being applied  to the funds  by the sender or previous bank in the transaction chain.  She also 
clarified that the details of the SWIFT  payment (which Ill call the SWIFT message) showed 
that AIB sent the full payment amount theyd received on to S Ltds account with M. Because 
AIB hadnt made an error or acted unfairly, our investigator concluded AIB wasnt 
responsible for refunding any payments to S Ltd.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators  view.  He emphasised that S Ltd had never been 
informed the charge  would be levied nor was it published  to them.  He said that if theyd been 
made aware  of the charges they wouldnt have preceded with the relationship with AIB. Mr L 
said he remained of the view that the charges were  being taken by AIB, which in his view,  
amounts to theft,  and he feels theyve been taken advantage of and cheated out of a 
substantial amount of money. 
Mr L requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ls frustration at being  charged  fees that he hasnt agreed to pay. I agree 
that it would  be highly  irregular for a financial business to charge a fee to a customer, that 
hadnt been previously agreed. However,  before I consider whether the terms and conditions  
Ref: DRN39811582in place between  S Ltd and AIB, authorise AIB to apply such a charge, I first need  to be 
satisfied that the charge is being  applied by AIB.
Having carefully considered the case file, the most  useful evidence which sheds  light on 
where these charges are being  applied  is the SWIFT messages. Ive considered  the SWIFT 
message for two US dollar transactions where  a charge of $25 and $30 have been applied.  
AIB have provided a copy of the SWIFT message and M have provided a copy of the 
counterpart SWIFT message (which  Ill refer to as the counterpart  message) for the 
transactions. There are at least three  financial businesses involved in these transactions: the 
original sending bank,  AIB as the merchant acquirer, and M as S Ltds  receiving bank. This 
means there  are three possible financial businesses who could be applying the $25 and $30 
charges: the sending  bank, AIB; or M. Our investigator previously concluded  (under our 
reference number  21630171) that the evidence showed M wasnt  applying the charges. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether AIB is applying the daily charge.
The SWIFT messages  and counterpart  messages Ive considered are: reference  
SP19042310051203, dated  25 April 2019  for the sum of USD33925.80; and reference  
SP19042610005504, dated  30 April 2019  for the sum of USD6676.20. I understand that 
Mr L has been provided with a copy  of these SWIFT messages. 
The explanation of the SWIFT messages and counterpart messages is the same for both 
transactions. In my explanation  below,  Im referring to the first transaction  detailed above.
The SWIFT message  provided by AIB shows  that both the original ordered amount and the 
interbank settled  amount was USD33925.80, which  shows  AIB sent the same amount it 
received, without deduction, to S Ltds account with M.
However, the counterpart message shows that although the original ordered amount was  
USD33925.80 the interbank settled amount, i.e., the amount received into S Ltds  account  
was $30 less, i.e., USD33895.80.  The counterpart message also includes an entry  for the 
inward sending  Bic (Business identification  code)  which belongs to Bank  of America in New 
York, USA. And it includes an entry for an In Send Chg.1 of USD30.00.  Finally, the 
counterpart message includes an entry: 71FUDS30 which  is a reference to a transaction 
charge deducted  by the sender/previous banks in the transaction chain.
The SWIFT message  provided by AIB shows  no deduction being made, so it follows the 
USD30.00 transaction must have  been applied by a previous bank in the transaction  chain, 
which the counterpart message identifies  as Bank  of America, based in New York, (which  is 
outside of our territorial  jurisdiction). So I conclude that theres no evidence  to show  AIB 
have been applying and $25 or $30 US dollar  charges  to the funds  theyve transferred to S 
Ltds account with M.
I also note that this conclusion is supported by other evidence on the case file. AIB have 
provided copies  of the December 2018  and January / February 2019 statements setting out 
processing details  and fees and charges. The statements  dont list any fees or charges in 
the sum of $25 or $30, or any other SWIFT  charges. In addition, the list of fees and charges 
in the application form that S Ltd completed with AIB also does not make reference to a $25 
or $30 charge or any other SWIFT charge  or currency-related fee. So there is neither any 
evidence of an agreement  for AIB to apply these charges  in the application  form, nor any 
evidence on the statements  that any such charges have been  applied.
Ref: DRN39811583Taking all of this into account,  my decision is that AIB is not responsible for the application  of 
the $25 or $30 charges  to funds paid into S Ltds US dollar account with M, so I dont uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against First Merchant Processing 
(Ireland) Limited (trading  as AIB Merchant Services).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3981158