K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that when  he opened  an ISA with OneSavings Bank Plc trading as 
Kent Reliance the instructions on how to fund the ISA were  misleading. As a result hes lost 
the opportunity  to invest in an ISA for 2018/19.
To settle matters hed like his funds to be invested  in the ISA for the tax year 2018/19  or 
compensation for the tax-free interest  he lost.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings on it can be found  in my provisional 
decision which is attached  to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was proposing to uphold Mr Ss complaint in 
part.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
Mr S agrees  with my provisional  decision and suggested that my final decision should 
include a recommendation that Kent Reliance should amend its instructions to ISA 
applicants to remove any ambiguity about transfers of funds between  Kent Reliance 
products. Kent Reliance  hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr S for his further comments but I must  explain that our service  doesnt have any 
regulatory or disciplinary  role over financial businesses  thats the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  This means that I cant  ask Kent Reliance  to change the instructions it 
issues to its customers about  how to fund an ISA.
As Mr S agrees with my provisional decision and as Kent Reliance  hasnt  responded to it I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I set out in my provisional decision. It follows 
that I uphold  this complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct OneSavings Bank  Plc to 
credit Mr Ss existing account  with £140 gross interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38574472copy extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that when he opened  an ISA with OneSavings Bank Plc trading  as Kent Reliance 
the instructions  on how to fund the ISA were misleading. As a result hes lost the opportunity to 
invest in an ISA for 2018/19.
To settle  matters hed like his funds to be invested in the ISA for the tax year 2018/19 or 
compensation for the tax-free  interest he lost.
background
Mr S completed an online  application for a two year fixed rate ISA with Kent Reliance. During  the 
application he was asked how much he wanted to invest and where the money  was coming  from. Mr 
S confirmed  the money would be coming  from his existing Kent Reliance  savings account. Kent 
Reliance sent an email  acknowledging his new account had been opened and it also sent an email  
explaining how to fund his new account.
Mr S says the funding  email  only refers to an account being funded from sources  outside Kent 
Reliance. And taken with the question he was asked about on the application about how his new 
account would be funded it appeared his account would automatically be funded  from his Kent 
Reliance savings account.
As a result of not funding his new ISA in time hes now lost the opportunity to invest funds  in his new 
ISA for 2018/19.
Mr S complained  to Kent Reliance but it didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr S therefore  referred  his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint  should be upheld.
When Mr S was asked  where  the funds  were  coming from our investigator thought this was a 
generic question that most banks ask for due diligence purposes  and it wasnt an instruction to debit 
funds from his existing Kent Reliance account.
She noted that the funding email made clear  that Mr S was required to make an initial deposit to his 
new account  within 7 days to avoid the account  from closing.  And it explained how funds  could be 
deposited by way of bank transfer and also by a debit card payment. She didnt think the funding 
email was misleading or that it was specific to funding an ISA from a bank account  outside Kent 
Reliance. She thought the funding  email had given clear  instruction  on how to fund the account but 
this wasnt  followed.
Mr S disagrees with the investigators  view.  He thinks Kent Reliances  instructions  are 
misleading by omission.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that during the application Mr S was asked how his new account  would  be funded. 
I cant agree that this amounted to an instruction to debit Mr Ss existing account.  I say this because  at 
the time he completed his application Kent Reliance had yet to approve and open  his new account. I 
agree with the investigator that this is a fairly standard question for financial businesses to ask for due 
diligence and regulatory purposes.
Ref: DRN38574473Ive looked carefully at the funding email. Im inclined to agree with Mr S that it doesnt specifically 
explain how to fund a new account from an existing Kent Reliance account.  But looking at the 
funding email and the questions  Mr S was asked  on the application together I cant  agree  this 
amounted to an instruction  to debit his existing  Kent Reliance account. However, I think Mr S may 
genuinely have thought his ISA would automatically  be funded from his existing Kent Reliance 
account.
I say this because Mr S confirmed to us that he had more  than sufficient  funds in his existing
Kent Reliance  account to invest in his ne ISA so he had nothing to gain by not investing in his new 
ISA before the tax year end.
Although I dont think the funding email explained how Mr S could  transfer funds between his 
accounts I recognise that it did make clear  that Mr S had to fund his account in the next 7 days 
otherwise his account  would close. In these circumstances if Mr S was concerned  that the email 
didnt explain how to transfer funds  between his Kent Reliance accounts I would  normally have 
expected him to contact  Kent Reliance to check  what he had to do. But Im not aware  he did so and 
this suggests to me that Mr S thought  albeit  incorrectly  that his new ISA would  automatically be 
funded from his existing account.
I dont think it will be possible now for Kent Reliance to open an ISA for Mr S for the tax year ended 
2018/19. I therefore  think a fair and reasonable outcome in these circumstances is for me to ask 
Kent Reliance  to credit Mr Ss existing account with £140 gross interest - being approximately  50% of 
the interest Mr S says he wouldve earned had his funds  been invested in the two year ISA. I realise  
Mr S wanted two years compensation net of tax but for the reasons Ive explained above I think  this 
is fair and hell also be earning interest on the funds in his existing account.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint  in part and I intend to require  
OneSavings Bank  Plc to credit Mr Ss existing  account with £140 gross interest.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3857447