K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is that it wont refund him for an 
ATM withdrawal he says he didnt make.
background
In January 2019, Mr G visited an ATM  and tried to withdraw £10. However, he entered  the 
wrong PIN, so no cash was dispensed.  He says while he was trying to sort matters  out, three  
men approached him at the ATM and harassed  him. He says they tried to take his card, but 
he was able to hold onto it. 
After the altercation, Mr G noticed  that £500  had been withdrawn  from his account at the 
same ATM, three minutes after his failed attempt to take out the £10. He complained to 
Barclays, and asked  for a refund, as he said it wasnt him who took the money. He believes 
he was somehow tricked, and the men hed encountered had managed  to rob him.
He also reported  the matter to the police. But declined to attend an identity parade to identify 
the culprit/s, as he was worried for his personal safety.
Barclays investigated matters, and concluded  that the only reasonable explanation for what  
had happened  was that Mr G himself  must  have withdrawn the £500, or allowed somebody  
else to do so using  his card and PIN. On this basis, it felt the transaction  was authorised  and 
Mr G was therefore liable for it.
Mr G disagreed, and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  considered the evidence, and sought further  submissions from both Mr G 
and Barclays. He concluded that there was no more likely  explanation  for what  happened  
than that Mr G himself had made or authorised the withdrawal.  So he couldnt ask Barclays 
to issue a refund for the disputed transaction.
Mr G still disagreed, and suggested that his card was likely to have been skimmed  or cloned 
at the time in question,  just after hed tried to use it, and this is how his money was able to 
be stolen. 
Our Investigator  considered this possibility, and explained to Mr G how he thought it wasnt  
at all likely  that this could  have happened. 
As Mr G remained unhappy, he asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I dont have the news Mr Gs hoping for. I appreciate his strength 
of feeling about this complaint, but I dont have the supporting evidence  to persuade me that 
he wasnt involved in the withdrawal of the £500,  such that I can fairly ask Barclays to refund 
him.
Ref: DRN37239612I know my decision will be very disappointing to Mr G, and I hope to explain why Ive 
reached it.
Mr G says he was conned  out of £500  when he was apprehended  at an ATM. He says he 
didnt withdraw the money himself, or allow anyone else to do so, and that he was in 
possession of his bank card the whole time.
This means  we have  a practical problem to consider  which  is how could anybody other 
than Mr G have used  the card to take out the money? 
We know that the cash was dispensed,  and that this was done at the ATM using the genuine 
card and correct PIN. We also know that the men who harassed Mr G couldnt have 
shoulder-surfed him to see his PIN as the previous  attempt hed made  (3 minutes earlier)  to 
withdraw £10 had failed due to the wrong PIN being  used. So these men neither had the 
physical card, nor knowledge of the PIN to use alongside  it. 
Regardless of this, Mr G maintains that he didnt withdraw this money, and that as it wasnt 
an authorised transaction, Barclays should  refund him.
Where evidence is incomplete, as it is here, I have to consider on balance of probabilities  
what I think happened. In order words, what  I think  the most  likely explanation and version of 
events is. 
Ive done this, and my view accords  with that of our Investigator. 
Thats to say, that having considered the alternatives, I still believe it most likely that Mr G 
either withdrew the cash himself, or allowed somebody else to do so. 
We know the real card and PIN were used.  But Mr G says he never lost possession  of the 
card, and the men in question had no opportunity  to get his PIN. We also know  that the 
same ATM was used twice in-between Mr Gs attempted £10 withdrawal and the successful 
£500 withdrawal;  which indicates that it wasnt only Mr G and the three men around  
making his story even  less likely. Unless these two interceding withdrawals were also made 
by Mr G using other cards   but hes never said thats the case.
So knowing  that the withdrawal was made, as a matter of fact, only three minutes after 
Mr Gs unsuccessful attempt, I have to decide  who made it. Knowing what  we do about  Mr G 
never letting  go of the card, and the fact that nobody else could have known his PIN, means  
that its not likely the three men he accuses took the money without his permission or 
authority. How would they have done so, unless Mr G allowed them  to?
For all of these reasons, Im not persuaded by Mr Gs versions of events. And I believe it 
most likely that he either carried withdrew  the money himself, or allowed  somebody else to. 
Either way, Im satisfied the withdrawal  was authorised.
Im not persuaded by the evidence that the transaction was unauthorised,  and on that basis  
the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 indicate  that Barclays cant be held liable for it.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN37239613my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3723961