K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Northern Bank Limited (NBL)  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 2001  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
NBL cant  confirm who the cover was taken out to protect, but Mr and Mrs C say it was a 
joint policy  and Ive got no reason to doubt  what they have said. 
So I think the policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs C for accident,  sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £200 a month  
towards Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £10.96 a month. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a fitter. He has told us he was entitled to some  sick pay 
and death in service  benefit through his employer. But he didnt have any other means of 
repaying their mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr C has said he was in good health  
at the time of the sale. 
Mrs C was employed as a youth driver and worker. She has told us she was entitled  to some 
sick pay, death in service  benefit and redundancy pay through her employer. But she also 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  their mortgage should she be unable  to work. Mrs C 
has said she underwent  a medical procedure and had a medical condition diagnosed some 
time before the sake.  
NBL has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
NBL failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBL should  have told 
Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN32863022The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBL should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN32863023This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NBL, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBL at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBL 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN32863024Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NBL gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NBL gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Mr and Mrs C suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and NBL, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
NBL had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the length of time thats passed  since the sale of the policy, neither NBL nor 
Mr and Mrs C have been able to find all the documentation from the time of sale. Thats not 
surprising, but it does mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have  had to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence. 
NBL has provided me with sample  copies  of documents from around the time of sale, and I 
think its likely that the documents  Mr and Mrs C wouldve seen and completed would have 
been the same as, or at least similar to, the documents that NBL has submitted. 
Ive seen a sample  copy of a mortgage application  form which  had a separate section for 
PPI  customers had to select either a Yes box if they wanted PPI or a No box if they didnt 
want it. But as there  was a No option,  I think customers wouldve  known  that the PPI was 
optional. 
If customers wanted PPI, they would  then go on to complete a separate PPI application form 
where they could  select cover for the first or second  applicant or joint cover  for both. 
Customers could also select the amount  of benefit they wanted and the extent of cover i.e.  
disability and unemployment, or unemployment  only or disability only. 
So, it looks  like the documents allowed customers to either select  or decline PPI, and if they 
selected the cover, the PPI could be tailored to their specific needs  - so they were able to 
exercise a degree  of consideration  and choice. 
Ive also seen a sample  copies  of mortgage  quotes  - which again had a separate section for 
PPI. This said customers had the option to take PPI  and it also set out the cost. 
Ref: DRN32863025Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBL provide advice?
NBL says that advice  was provided during this sale. Mr and Mrs C havent said if they agree. 
Looking at what happened when NBL sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI, Im persuaded that it 
provided advice.  I say this because from what  Ive seen of sales  made in branch, they were 
usually advised.  I also have no reason to doubt what NBL says. 
This means  NBL had to advise Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps NBL took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C. It seems  Mr and Mrs C cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Cs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs C would have  been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest NBL considered whether 
Mr and Mrs C had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded NBL did all it should  have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C given  their circumstances. So, 
Im not persuaded NBL advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded NBL did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Cs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr and Mrs C were not working for an extended  period  of time  even allowing for the 
employee benefits they say they would  have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs C. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Cs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And Mr C hasnt told us about  any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  his ability  to claim. While Mrs C has told 
us about a medical procedure she had some years before the sale,  she hasnt said 
she had any ongoing issues with it since. Additionally, shes also said she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition  some time before the sale, but she hasnt told us 
she needed any time off work  for it. So, I dont think these  health issues  made the 
Ref: DRN32863026policy unsuitable. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  
health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any other  
occupation condition,  the requirement that Mr and Mrs C be disabled or unemployed 
for 30 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs C be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  NBL gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what NBL 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs C were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs C 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBL gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C Im not persuaded NBL 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded NBL gave Mr and Mrs C all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Cs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN32863027-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NBL ought to have done either. 
what effect did NBLs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs C suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBL didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs C. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs C suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs C would have still taken  out the policy,  had NBL done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded NBL took the steps it should have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs C have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if NBL had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs C would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs C had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when NBL advised them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN32863028As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
But the information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost, benefit,  limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I havent seen any evidence that NBL told them the exact  premium  
at the point Mr and Mrs C applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  
Mr and Mrs C would  have been told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with NBL at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NBL made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs C would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or associated  
symptoms, whether diagnosed or not, that Mr and Mrs C knew  about or should  
reasonably have known about  or which they received advice, treatment for from any 
doctor during  the 6 months  immediately before the start date of the policy;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs C werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs C be 
unable to do their own job or any paid work  which their training, education or ability 
reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs C were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. Mr C didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and they were both in permanent  employment. And for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mrs C wouldve envisaged  that the health issues 
she had, would be the main reason shed need to make a claim. So, I dont think knowing 
Ref: DRN32863029more about the any of the significant  exclusions  wouldve  changed their minds  about the 
PPI. Overall,  I still think they had some  good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if they were not only unable  to 
do their job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably 
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into their thinking about what  they would do. And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover.
NBL may not have  told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs C would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs C be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Cs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs C were  made redundant,  or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN328630210presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude NBL should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think NBL misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of NBLs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why NBL failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBL gave Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2001  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find NBL negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBL had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Ref: DRN328630211Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3286302