K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B applied for PPI the policy in 2006  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  The policy was called Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP is a packaged  protection plan and it consisted of three 
parts  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (the PPI), critical illness and life cover. Mrs B also 
applied for the critical illness and life cover but to be clear, I am only looking at the PPI 
element of the policy in this decision.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £524.45  a month towards  Mrs Bs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £31.15  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs B was employed as a care co-ordinator. She has told us she was entitled to 
at least 12 months employee  pay if she was too unwell to work as well as redundancy pay if 
she lost her job. Mrs B didnt tell us of any other financial  means   such as savings  she 
could have relied upon to make her mortgage repayments in the event she wasnt  working. 
Mrs B has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2006 and 
closed in 2013.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Bs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN39691142The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN39691143In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
Ref: DRN39691144drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Mrs B has said it was included 
as part of the mortgage package.
Halifax has been able to give us several documents from the time of the sale.  The keyfacts  
about this mortgage stated Mrs B didnt need  to buy any insurance through  Halifax  and then 
has a section entitled Optional Insurance  which  gives details of the insurance chosen and 
a breakdown of the costs. Ive also been  given a copy  of the PPI application which  has been 
signed by Mrs B. There was also a follow up letter  about the PPI thanking  Mrs B for 
choosing TMPP and confirming the cover she had taken.  So, I think  it was made clear the 
policy was optional at the point of sale. And if Mrs B hadnt wanted it, I would have expected 
her to question its inclusion when she received subsequent correspondence confirming she 
had taken it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs B knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs B hasnt said either way whether she recalls  advice being given, which I dont find 
surprising given how long ago the sale of the PPI took place.  Halifax  has told us that its 
records show that advice  was provided  during this sale. Looking  at the information Halifax  
gathered about  Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of the sale, this suggests it was a 
personalised recommendation and in the absence of any alternative testimony from Mrs B 
for me to consider,  Im persuaded that Halifax provided advice.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs B. The adviser had information  about  some of Mrs Bs financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  But although a demands and needs statement was 
completed to try and establish whether Mrs B had a need for the policy   by asking 
questions about  her wider  circumstances  such  as any health issues and existing means  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I dont think the evidence suggests  
they asked Mrs B about her existing financial means  including her sick pay entitlement if she 
couldnt work.  
Ref: DRN39691145Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs B given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Bs ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments, for which she was solely responsible  for, would have 
been put under strain  if she was not working for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay she says she would have been 
entitled to.
-Although Mrs B says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs B. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Bs employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs B be disabled  or unemployed 
for 30 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mrs Bs circumstances,  including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs B be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN39691146Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. I say this 
because the costs of the policy were set out in the key facts document  Mrs B likely received 
before she completed  her mortgage and on the subsequent letter  which broke  down the 
costs of the policy. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the exclusions or limitations before Mrs B 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs B all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs B. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
Ref: DRN39691147While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs B, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs B was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mrs B would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Bs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mrs B 
knew about or ought to have known about  or had seen  or arranged to  have  seen a 
doctor during  the 12 months  before  the start date of the policy. But if Mrs B had been  
symptom free for 24 months  further consideration would be given about  a claim for a 
pre-existing medical condition; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN39691148The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs B be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs B was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs B wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs B didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs B 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs B, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs B was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs B that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. Mrs B has 
told us she was entitled to generous sick pay benefits she could have used so she didnt 
need the policy. Ive thought carefully about  what shes said, but its very unusual for an 
employer to provide  12 months full sick pay.
I think its likely Mrs B was entitled to some sick pay. But in my experience  and without 
evidence to show otherwise  I think  its unlikely she would have  received  the level of sick 
pay shes told us she was entitled to. And as the policy would have paid out alongside any 
sick pay she did get, and her statutory redundancy entitlement was also likely to be less than 
12 months income, it would have  been useful to Mrs B if something went  wrong.   
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs B would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs B be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
Ref: DRN39691149outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Bs sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs B was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs B thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Ref: DRN396911410Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs B, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs B and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021. 
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3969114