K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains, on behalf of his business  J, that Lloyds Bank Plc rejected several cheques 
he deposited into his business account.
background
Mr P says he paid several cheques  into his business account via the Immediate Deposit 
Machine (IDM). These cheques were rejected so he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds say that theyd changed  the IDM process in order to reduce the risk of fraud and to 
speed up the time taken to clear cheques. Any cheques issued to a name that is different to 
the name in which  the account  is held will be automatically rejected. The cheques  Mr P had 
tried to deposit contained a payee  name that was slightly different to the name in which  his 
business account was held. So Lloyds  dont agree that they made  an error in rejecting  the 
cheques.
But they do accept  that theyd not made Mr P aware that IDM deposits must be in the 
specific name of the account rather than one similar  to it. So Lloyds  apologised and offered 
£200 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by this lack of communication.
Mr P says he wants Lloyds to just pay the cheques into his business  account. He says that 
these cheques were  from elderly  customers and getting replacements will be difficult.
Lloyds say that once a cheque has been  deposited at the IDM, the paper cheque is no 
longer a legal  instrument  for payment so they cant now pay the money. But they offered to 
write an explanatory  letter for Mr P to show to his customers. And they also offered to 
consider costs incurred  by Mr P in contacting the cheque issuers to request replacement  
cheques for his business. Mr P rejected this offer and brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  had done enough to put things right.  Mr P does not 
agree. So this case has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear that Mr P feels  strongly about 
this case. And thats not surprising. Hed had cheques from customers  that hed wanted to 
pay into his business  account and these  were unexpectedly rejected. And his business  has 
been inconvenienced because he now needs  to obtain replacement  cheques.  But I do not 
uphold his complaint and I shall explain my reasons. I may not refer to all the points made  by 
the parties but have focused  on those  most  relevant to my decision.
Lloyds say they changed the IDM process in order to reduce the risk of fraud and to speed 
up the time taken to clear cheques. So cheques now need to include a payee name that is 
the same  as the name of the account holder.  I do not think  this is unreasonable.
But Lloyds accept  that they did not communicate  this change to Mr P. So the question I need 
to consider is whether they have  done  enough to put things right.
Ref: DRN36972592Mr P wants  Lloyds  to just pay the cheques into his account. But the problem is that once the 
cheques have been automatically rejected by the IDM, they are no longer legal instruments 
for payment. And Lloyds  cant  just transfer  the money from Mr Ps customers  accounts to 
his business account without a legal instrument for payment. 
I also dont think it would  be reasonable to ask Lloyds to just pay the value of the cheques 
themselves because they havent made an error  in rejecting  them. And it wouldnt be fair for 
Lloyds to pay for the goods and/or services that Mr Ps customers  received.
But Lloyds accept  that inconvenience  has been caused because  Mr P now needs to obtain 
replacement cheques from his customers for his business. And I think  the £200  
compensation Lloyds have  offered to pay is fair and reasonable and is in line with the types  
of awards this service  makes.
I appreciate Mr Ps concerns about  being able to obtain replacement cheques from his 
elderly customers. But Lloyds have offered to write  an explanatory letter  to explain to 
customers what has happened. Mr P mentioned that money may be tight for these  
customers. But as their cheques were  rejected,  they are not out of pocket and are paying 
what they wouldve  had to pay anyway. 
Mr P is also understandably concerned about  how he will be able to go and visit any 
customers because only he and his wife work  in the business. But Lloyds have  said that they 
will consider  additional  costs incurred by Mr P in contacting the cheque issuers  to request 
replacement cheques.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr P. But in my view Lloyds have been fair and reasonable in what  
theyve offered to do to put things right. So I wont be asking them  to do anything  further.
My understanding is that Lloyds offer of £200 compensation, an explanatory  letter, and their 
willingness to consider any additional costs  incurred by Mr P in contacting  cheque  issuers is 
still available for him to accept. So I leave it to Mr P to decide if he wishes  take this up.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, trading as J, 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3697259