K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  with a 
hire-purchase agreement for a car. Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt sell the PPI 
directly, but has taken responsibility  for this sale.   
background
Ms H bought the PPI policy in July 2002 when she bought a car. She says she was led to 
believe she had to have  the PPI if she wanted  the loan she was applying  for. She says she 
might have signed the form, but wasnt told anything about  the PPI, nor given any 
information to look at. And she said she didnt need it in any case, because of her employee 
benefits. 
This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost (£1107.95) was added to the borrowing 
and was repayable,  with interest, over the 42-month  term.  The policy  provided  life, accident 
and sickness and unemployment cover for Ms H. If shed made a successful accident and 
sickness claim, the policy would have covered the monthly repayments  for up to the 
remaining term of the agreement. For unemployment it would  have paid out for up to 12 
months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that the policy  had been mis-
sold. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms H says she definitely wouldnt have bought the PPI if shed had time to think  about  it 
properly and weve made incorrect assumptions about what  she would or wouldnt have 
done if shed had all the information. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva sent in a copy of the hire-purchase agreement, along with the policy details.  From 
whats on the agreement, I think it was probably  completed at the car dealership, and that 
the PPI sale took place  there. As the sale most likely took place during a meeting, I cant  
know how the salesperson explained the PPI. But the hire-purchase  agreement  shows that 
the PPI was clearly  described as being  optional  the details are in a section headed 
AGREEMENT  FOR OPTIONAL INSURANCE  alongside the details of the main  borrowing. 
Ms H has said that she was under pressure to get a new car (she and her children were 
away from home when the old one broke down),  and keen  to get the loan. But even so I 
think Ms H would at least have looked  at the main  points  on the agreement before she 
signed it  and I can see no reason why she wouldnt then have seen the PPI information. 
So I think she could have  questioned it if she didnt want the cover  or if shed initially 
Ref: DRN39663092thought she had to have  it. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Ms H was given  a 
choice about whether  to take the PPI and that she agreed to it. 
Ive no evidence to say the PPI was recommended for Ms H. So the seller  didnt need to 
make sure that the PPI was suitable for her - but should have given her enough  information  
for them to make an informed choice  about it.
Ms H also says she didnt realise the cost of the PPI would be added to her loan. But I can 
see that the PPI premium  was shown separately on the finance  agreement,  along  with the 
interest chargeable and the total cost and monthly payment. And it also shows the difference  
in monthly payments with or without the PPI.
I also have a copy of the policy summary. I dont know when in the sales  process Ms H 
might have received  the summary. But I cant see that Ms H would have been affected  by 
any of the exclusions  in the policy, so I dont think this would have made a difference to Ms 
Hs decision  about taking  it. 
Ms H said she was employed and in good health at the time of the sale.  She also said she 
would have been entitled to generous  sick pay from her employer. 
Ive kept in mind  that, for accident or sickness, the policy could have paid out for up to the 
term of the loan  so potentially quite a lot longer than Ms Hs sick pay. Overall,  I think Ms H 
could have found it difficult to make  the payments on the car once her sick pay reduced or if 
shed lost her job. On balance I think the PPI could have provided useful cover.
Ive also looked  at the cost of the policy, and Im satisfied that the potential  benefit 
reasonably exceeded the cost. And although its not clear whether Ms H would have 
received a proportionate  refund of the premium  if shed repaid the finance early, Ive no 
evidence to say that she planned to do this at the time of the sale.   
Ive carefully considered  what Ms H has told us  particularly that she had a poor credit 
rating at the time and didnt  realise  what she was signing for. I understand their 
unhappiness, but I have to base  my decision on what I think  is most likely to have happened 
at the point of sale, taking  into account  what was required  of businesses at the time.  (The 
PPI sale in this case  took place  before the regulation of the sale of policies like this one by 
the Financial Services  Authority in 2005.)
Overall, I simply dont  have enough evidence to say its more likely  than not that the PPI 
policy was mis-sold to Ms H. The finance agreement shows  the cost. And although I cant  be 
certain whether  the seller  properly  explained  the policy details, Im not satisfied that Ms H 
would have acted  differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. As Ive said,  the policy 
could have provided useful cover. This means  Ms H isnt worse off as a result of what the 
seller may have done wrong, so theres  nothing Aviva needs to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN39663093my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3966309