K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card. She says she never  agreed to it and was never  given an option.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However Mrs N has already received some money back for the commission Barclays 
received from selling her the PPI. Mrs N still thinks she was mis-sold  the PPI in the first 
place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint  has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events took place  a considerable time ago and records  show  that, as an existing 
Barclays credit card customer, Mrs N applied to upgrade her card in 1998.
We have a copy of the postal  form she used and I can see there is a yes and no option 
about having PPI with the new card. Mrs Ns form had a tick in the yes box directly next to 
where it said Yes, I want my Barclaycard Gold Account to be covered  against 
unemployment, accident, sickness and death. 
I also think Mrs N would  have known that she didnt need to have PPI with her card if she 
didnt want it. This is because there was an option on the form not to take it and it also 
seems Mrs N had been operating her previous card since 1978 without PPI. 
So all this, in my view,  is strong  evidence  that Mrs N consented to the PPI policy.
As this was a postal  application, its unlikely to have been an advised sale. So Barclays  
duty was limited to providing clear enough information for Mrs N to make her own decision.
I certainly can see ways in which the form could have  been clearer. But I also think  some 
additional written  information about  the rules  and terms of the PPI would have been attached 
to the application form. And even if I accept Barclays could and should have done more, I 
still dont think this would have changed  what Mrs N went on to do.
This is because the evidence  shows  Mrs N wanted the cover and would have seen she had 
a choice. She was eligible for it and not caught  by any of the main  exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy.  I also see that the cost was around 69p for every £100 
outstanding on the card, which I think would have been affordable for her.
Ref: DRN35475622I note Mrs N already had some protection  against  sickness with her job. But Im afraid  this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. The policy would have  paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim and this wouldve 
been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs N but I think the evidence shows she chose the policy  herself and 
would have known  it wasnt something  she needed  to have. This means Im not upholding 
her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs N about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already paid her for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547562