K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained that Aviva Insurance Services UK Limited has refused to fully 
reimburse the additional expenses she incurred while repair  work was undertaken following 
a claim she made under  her home insurance policy.
background
In October  2017, Ms C made  a claim to Aviva after suffering  an escape of water at her 
property.
Aviva accepted the claim but Ms C wanted  to appoint her own contractor to do the repair  
work and a dispute arose over the cost of this. In August 2018, Aviva  issued  a final response  
letter in which it offered to meet the full cost of the contractors quote. Ms C accepted this 
offer. Aviva separately agreed  that it would cover the cost of alternative accommodation for 
Ms C and pay a disturbance allowance (DA) to cover additional food and sundry  expenses  
for the anticipated  two week duration of the work. It also agreed to cover  the cost of removal  
and storage of some  of her items for this period.
In January 2019, the repair work started and Ms C moved out of her property. At the end of 
the two weeks, the work still hadnt been completed. Aviva didnt agree to extend payment  
for the alternative  accommodation so Ms C moved back  in to her property. Aviva  agreed to 
continue to pay her a DA for a further  week until she had a fully functioning  kitchen. It also 
eventually agreed  to meet the additional storage costs.
After the work was completed, Ms C presented Aviva with a credit card bill for £515 which  
she said represented her additional expenses during the time she was without a kitchen.  
Aviva said it wasnt  prepared  to meet this full amount but agreed to increase the rate of DA 
from its usual £10 a day to £15 a day. This resulted  in Aviva paying Ms C a further £175 
towards her additional expenses.
Ms C was unhappy at Avivas offer. She said Avivas loss adjuster had led her to believe she 
would be reimbursed for all her additional  expenses as long as she provided  evidence of 
these. She also felt that Aviva had provided  a poor service throughout her claim.  She 
referred her complaint  to us.   
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He was satisfied 
that Avivas offer in respect  of Ms Cs additional  expenses was fair. However,  he considered  
that Aviva  had shown  failings  in its communication with Ms C which  had caused her some 
distress and inconvenience. He thought it should pay her £150 compensation for this.
Ms C didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that when she had no kitchen  and 
she wanted a proper cooked  meal,  she had gone  to restaurants to eat. She questioned how 
else she was supposed to eat properly.  She considered  she had been reasonable in her 
expenditure.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN33467522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
Ms C sometimes mentions events from early  on in the claim. To clarify, Aviva issued a final 
response in August 2018 which dealt with the handling of the claim up until that point and 
which outlined its cash settlement offer. I cant consider those matters within  this complaint 
because Ms C didnt refer her complaint to us within six months of the final response  being 
issued, as required under  our rules. I am therefore  considering only the events since then.
I can see that Aviva agreed  to cover the cost of alternative accommodation  for the two 
weeks that the work was expected to take place.  It also agreed to cover  the cost of removal 
and storage of some  of her items. I consider that this was reasonable.
Aviva also agreed to pay a DA to Ms C. In August 2018, its loss adjuster wrote to Ms C to 
explain this:
To cover  increased costs and the inconvenience of being away from home your insurer will 
agree to pay a disturbance allowance set at an agreed rate of £10 per day per adult for the 
time spent  away from home.  Any additional  costs incurred over and above this such as 
laundry costs would  need to be evidenced  by way of receipt. We would then look to 
reimburse you for any necessary additional expenditure.
 
I consider that this is clear. I further consider  that the rate of £10 a day is fair and in 
accordance with normal industry practice. Ms C should understand that the purpose  of a DA 
is not to cover all her food expenditure while she is without a kitchen; it is to cover  the 
additional cost she might reasonably be expected  to incur over and above her normal food 
expenditure.
Ms C says she was in repeated discussion with the loss adjuster about the amount she 
might be allowed for food and other expenses. She has quoted from an email she says the 
loss adjuster sent her in November 2018 in which he said:
"Should you wish to claim for additional expenditure on food or laundry costs please submit  
the receipts to this office at a later date and we will look to reimburse you these upon 
review.
Ms C says she inferred from this that she would be fully reimbursed for all her food 
expenditure as long as she provided  evidence of this. However, I dont think  the loss adjuster 
was necessarily promising this. Earlier in the email, the loss adjuster  had confirmed Ms C 
would receive £140  in DA to cover  a two week period.  The sentence above might be seen as 
indicating the period  of DA could  be extended if necessary. Even if I thought  the sentence 
were to imply that there  may be some  flexibility over the £10 a day rate, I dont consider that 
it amounts to an assurance that Aviva  will necessarily cover all of Ms Cs additional  food 
costs above this amount. 
In the event, after receiving Ms Cs itemised credit  card bill, Aviva agreed to increase the DA 
to £15 a day. I consider that this was fair. Ms C hasnt shown that she incurred other 
additional expense  as a result of being out of her property except for food and Aviva agreed  
to increase the normal DA rate by 50% which seems reasonable in the circumstances. This 
Ref: DRN33467523resulted in a further payment to Ms C of £175.  I dont consider that Aviva is required to pay 
anything more in respect  of Ms Cs living expenses during the period of the repair work. 
Ms C has also complained about  the service provided by Aviva. I can see that there  were  
some problems. I have already mentioned  the somewhat unclear meaning of the loss 
adjusters email in November 2018. Furthermore,  Ms C says that when  it became  apparent  
that the repair work wouldnt finish  at the scheduled  time, she contacted the loss adjuster but 
didnt hear back in a timely way. This meant  she felt obliged  to move out of her alternative 
accommodation and back into her home, even though it still wasnt ready.  And the delay in 
the loss adjuster responding meant  she had to pay an additional  storage  charge herself,  
albeit that Aviva reimbursed her shortly after.
I consider that the above issues  would  have caused  Ms C a degree of distress and 
inconvenience. I agree  with the investigator  that Aviva should pay Ms C £150  compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Aviva Insurance Services UK Limited to pay Ms C £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3346752