K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains Revolut Limited has failed to refund $28.06 from a successful chargeback  
claim.
background
Miss M has a personal account with Revolut. In late 2017 she made a chargeback claim 
against another business. On 23 January 2018 she received an email  from Revolut 
confirming the dispute had been successful and $28.06  would be credited to her account 
that day. Mrs M said she didnt receive  this money  so she complained to Revolut 
Revolut did not uphold her complaint. It said as Miss M had not wished to provide the source 
of funds documentation requested her account had been suspended indefinitely, and the 
chargeback credit did not proceed.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She said Revolut had confirmed  it would credit  
her account  and it hadnt provided her with an acceptable response as to why she hadnt 
received the money. Miss M raised a separate complaint with this service concerning  the 
suspension of her account.  
The investigator found that Revolut  had acted fairly and within  its terms and conditions. Miss 
M disagreed  and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence  I issued  a provisional decision to Miss M and Revolut. In 
this decision I said as follows:
I asked Revolut to provide  me with copies  of correspondence sent to Miss M relating 
to the chargeback as well as evidence of Miss Ms refusal to provide identification 
documents. Between 2 September  2017 and 26 January  2018  Miss Ms 
communication with Revolut was through the online chat service. Revolut provided  a 
transcript of the several occasions when it spoke to Miss M.
Having read through this transcript Im persuaded Miss M experienced a confusing 
and unsatisfactory  level of customer service during these online conversations. The 
status of the chargebacks, what was required of Miss M in order for Revolut to 
process them and why Revolut first declined them and then needed Miss M to verify 
her account  before they were  processed were not explained clearly or indeed  at all.
Between the evening of 3 October and 6pm on 5 October Miss M tried to get clarity 
on the status of her three  chargebacks and Revolut tried to process them individually.  
Its not clear to me what Miss M or Revolut could  see on screen  but at one point both 
parties admitted  to being confused. By the end of the conversation Miss M became 
frustrated that the process was taking too much time especially for a chargeback of 
less than £20. 
At 6.01pm Miss M said:
I do not have any more  evidence to send you so please make your decision 
on the evidence  I have provided and send the decision in writing by email.  As 
Ref: DRN39176642this is taking up far too much of my time for money that amounts to less than 
£100 in total.
At no point  did Revolut reassure Miss M or seek to give clarity to the process. During 
the conversation  Miss M appeared to have  sent over evidence  for one chargeback  
and said she would  send  evidence for the others later as she couldnt download the 
items during that moment.
At 6.34 Revolut messaged Miss M that it was rejecting the chargeback  claims.  She 
asked to make a complaint. 
Its not clear to me which  of the chargebacks  discussed is the one relating to this 
complaint. But as Miss M said she would be sending over documents  later when  she 
could download  them from a web portal  I dont  understand how the chargebacks 
could have been rejected  so quickly. 
On 27 December Revolut  contacted Miss M again regarding  the chargeback claims 
and said it had reviewed  her case and concluded  the merchant might  be fraudulent 
and asked her to complete a fraud form. Miss M asked Revolut to resend a link. 
On 16 January Revolut  prompted Miss M to complete the form and marked the ticket 
as closed on 22 January.  
I dont know whether Miss M completed  the fraud  form but the email  confirming  to 
Miss M that her chargeback was successful was sent on 23 January at 10.43am. At 
8.57pm on 23 January  Miss M queried why she couldnt access her account. 
Following a review of Miss Ms account it was locked. Revolut said it asked Miss M to 
provide pictures  of her identification  documents  and clarification concerning the 
funding source of her account and the unique numeric identifier. And that Miss M had 
refused. 
Im not disputing Revolut  followed its process  regarding the chargebacks  and 
account verification.  But twice in the transcript Revolut said it would try to help Miss 
M get her money back and Im satisfied  she was entitled to a fair and reasonable 
level of customer service  and didnt receive it. At no point did Revolut explain to Miss 
M clearly  the process  for chargeback. When Revolut decided to review the 
chargebacks and ask for verification it failed to explain  why this was important.  The 
transcript seems  to follow a script  for verification which appeared to be inflexible and 
didnt allow for a full explanation nor did it answer Miss Ms questions.  
Revolut has since confirmed to this service that the chargeback was successful 
which would explain why the letter was generated on 23 January. Revolut  has also 
said Miss M failed to adhere  to its terms and conditions, including  by refusing to 
provide the information requested. 
I accept that ordinarily  Miss M is bound by the terms and conditions  of her account.  
But I am not bound  to decide in accordance only with the terms of agreements. My 
role is to determine whats fair and reasonable, taking into consideration all the 
circumstances, and the terms and conditions are only a part of the facts. 
Ref: DRN39176643I consider that the customer service Miss M received during the various chat 
sessions relating to the chargebacks was confusing and unhelpful. And Miss M was 
given no explanation or information to help her understand  that she needed to re-
verify her account. 
Subject to any further information from either party my provisional decision was that because  
Revolut had said the chargeback was successful, I considered  it fair and reasonable for it to 
pay this chargeback to Miss M. In addition  I also considered it fair to pay Miss M £25 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions. Revolut has confirmed to this service that it has paid Miss M £47.20,  which is 
$28.06 for the chargeback  raised, taking  into consideration exchange rates, and £25 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Revolut must pay Miss M 
$28.06 chargeback;
£25 for distress and inconvenience, if it has not already done so
Revolut has confirmed it has paid these amounts to Miss M so it is left to Miss M to confirm 
she has received them.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3917664