K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that his commercial vehicle insurance taken out through  Swinton Group Ltd 
was renewed without his permission.
background
Mr A took out an annual  insurance policy through Swinton  in late November 2017.  
Early in November  2018 Swinton wrote to Mr A at his home address with renewal 
documents. In these  letters  Swinton  said if they didnt hear back from Mr A they would treat it 
as though he agreed to continue and the policy would  renew.  Swinton didnt hear from Mr A 
so the policy  renewed  and a monthly payment was taken by direct debit in December 2018. 
Due to family bereavements Mr A was out of the country from early November 2018 to 
January 2019  so didnt see the documents. When Mr A found out about the renewal, he 
cancelled the policy. Swinton told Mr A they werent  refunding the December payment, there 
was an outstanding payment for the time the policy was active, and there was a £30 
cancellation fee payable.
Mr A complained to Swinton saying they shouldve sent him an email  or made a telephone 
call before renewing the policy.  Swinton  didnt  uphold the complaint relying on the 
documentation sent and that Mr A hadnt contacted them. As a gesture  of goodwill they 
reduced the outstanding balance by 50% to £123.87.
Mr A was unhappy with the response  so brought his complaint to our service  where  one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. He thought  Swinton acted fairly  when  sending  
the documents to the address they had on file, and then renewing the policy.  Mr A didnt 
agree so the complaint  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I know that Mr A was out of the country due to distressing personal  circumstances,  which Im 
sorry to hear about. Ive considered this, as well as the documentation  Swinton sent to Mr A 
when the policy was taken out, and the renewal  information.
When the policy was taken out Swinton sent Mr A policy documents explaining what  would 
happen at renewal. These say Swinton will contact Mr A at least  17 days before renewal, 
which they did. They also say that if Swinton dont hear from Mr A prior to the renewal date 
the policy will automatically  renew. This is what happened. 
At the beginning  of November 2018  Swinton wrote again to Mr A as the renewal date was 
approaching. They  sent new quotation  details confirming  that if they didnt hear from him 
before the renewal  date the policy would  automatically renew; which  it did. 
On both occasions Swinton wrote to the address they held for Mr A and there  doesnt  seem 
any doubt the letters were received at the address. Due to unfortunate  circumstances Mr A 
Ref: DRN37527912was unexpectedly out of the country at the time of renewal, of which there  is no doubt, but 
this wasnt something Swinton knew about.
Mr A says that Swinton shouldve phoned or emailed him about  the renewal.  Swinton 
couldve done this, but I cant say they shouldve done this. The policy  documents  say 
Swinton will contact Mr A, but it doesnt  say how. In these circumstances I can see it 
wouldve been better for Mr A if an email was sent, or a phone  call was made. However, Im 
satisfied that by writing  to get in contact  Swinton  acted fairly and did what  they said they 
would do in the policy documents.
Swinton say policies  auto renew to protect consumers. Mr A told us the vehicle was being 
stored in a garage at the time, but it hadnt been registered as off the road, nor was any 
other insurance arranged.  Taking all of this into consideration  it seems  to me the insurance 
was needed for the vehicle and Swinton did protect Mr A by renewing  the policy.
Im satisfied Swinton  acted fairly  and reasonably  when renewing the policy and by collecting 
the premiums for the time the policy was active.  Mr A was clearly going through  difficult  time, 
and Im sorry to hear that. In recognition of this Swinton have reduced the outstanding 
amount by 50% which I think is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3752791