complaint
Mrs A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly put her name in a letter  it sent 
to a third party after she made  a claim on her motor insurance policy  following an accident.
background
Mrs As car was hit by a motorbike  driven by an unidentified driver whilst it was parked 
outside her home. She gave UKI the other  drivers  registration plate and it wrote  to the 
person who was recorded as the motorbikes registered keeper, Mr Y.
Mrs As name was set out in the letter to Mr Y. Mrs A found out about that when Mr Y called 
at her home. Mr Y said hed sold the bike to another party three  months earlier, so he wasnt 
involved in the accident. Mrs A says Mr Y intimidated her. She thought  hed found her 
through her name on social media and that UKI had breached data protection rules. In her
view, UKI caused a situation where she didnt  feel safe at home  any more. She said because  
of that, shed paid £1,500 to have a CCTV camera fitted. She thought UKI should pay her 
compensation for all the distress that shed faced.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs As complaint. She said the Information 
Commissioners office (ICO) could  look at whether there had been a data protection 
breach, but that wasnt our role. She didnt think UKIs action  in putting Mrs As name in the 
letter had directly  caused Mr Y to turn up at her home. But she thought it had acted outside  
the policy wording,  which  in her view was unreasonable. She said it should pay Mrs A £100 
compensation for the distress caused  by that. Mrs A didnt think it was enough.
As there  was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI said it didnt  accept Mrs As belief that putting  her name  in a standard letter  had allowed 
Mr Y to find her through social  media. It said it had acted  within  the terms of the policy  and 
those of its privacy policy.  It said the policy gave it the right to handle  the claim as it saw fit. It 
said its privacy  policy  allowed it to share  Mrs As personal details with others.  UKI referred to 
calls between it and Mr Y that it said showed hed have  found out who Mrs A was even if UKI 
hadnt put her name in its letter.
Ive listened to the call recordings.  Its clear that when Mr Y was told the motorbike hed once  
owned had been involved  in an accident,  he spoke  to the person hed sold it to. It seems that 
person knew the details  of the accident.  I think most consumers who found themselves in
K821x#15
Ref: DRN3699219Mr Ys position would have contacted the bikes  new owner. I think the evidence shows  that 
he didnt find Mrs A through social media, but through the person whod bought  the bike.  So I 
think it was largely irrelevant that Mrs As name  was in UKIs letter. I think Mr Y would have 
visited her anyway once  he had her address  and he didnt get that from UKI.
I dont think UKI was to blame for the upset Mrs A faced as a result of Mr Ys visit. It had no 
option but to write to him, as he was still recorded as the motorbikes registered  keeper. The 
insurer for the bike couldnt be identified, so that wasnt  an option. But I can see why Mrs A 
didnt think her name should  have been in UKIs  letter in the first place.
Were aware  that Mrs A has contacted the ICO and that its looking into whether there  has 
been a data protection breach. In the meantime, Ive thought about whether it was fair and 
reasonable for UKI to add Mrs As name to its letter. I dont think  it was necessary, and the 
policy wording says nothing about  sharing a consumers details with other drivers or 
potential parties to an accident. It says UKI will share details with all its brands  and with 
organisations and companies that help it to provide its services.
I agree with the investigator that UKI acted outside the policy  wording. In my opinion,  
including Mrs As name in its letter in itself caused her some  alarm and upset.  So I think  it 
would be fair for UKI to compensate her for that by paying her £100 compensation. UKI has 
already agreed  to that proposal. Taking  everything into account,  I dont think it would be 
reasonable for UKI to pay Mrs A more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this case.  I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay Mrs A
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
2
Ref: DRN3699219