K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold 
them an Advantage Gold packaged  bank  account  in 2012. They paid a monthly fee for the 
account which provided several  benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs Cs account was opened  as an Advantage  Gold account in May 2012. It was 
changed by NatWest to a Select Platinum account in June 2015,  as part of a change  to the 
range of products it offered. But this wasnt a separate sale,  so I havent considered it as 
such.
Mr and Mrs Cs account was converted  to a fee-free Select account on 9 May 2018. 
Amongst the points theyve made about  the mis-sale  of the account,  theyve  also said they 
had to ask NatWest three times to convert their account, and continued to be charged for it.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that NatWest mis-sold the Advantage Gold account to Mr 
and Mrs C and didnt  recommend that NatWest should pay them any compensation. Mr and 
Mrs C didnt agree so they asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Cs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the Advantage Gold  
account was mis-sold  to them.  Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs C were  given  a fair choice when they took 
their account.
Its not in dispute  as to whether Mr and Mrs C had a choice about  opening the packaged 
account. Theyve explained that they both also opened a fee-free sole account at the same 
time, and the Advantage Gold  account  was suggested by NatWest as beneficial to them  
because of the benefits that came with it. But they havent complained  that they had no 
choice but to open an account with a fee  in return  for the Advantage Gold  benefits. So Im 
satisfied that they consented to opened  the account,  in the knowledge that they had the 
choice of a free account instead  if they wanted  one.
I dont think that NatWest recommended the Advantage Gold  account  to Mr and Mrs C. So 
whilst it didnt have to check if the account was suitable for them,  it had to give them  enough 
information for them to make that decision for themselves.
Ref: DRN39031442I note that Mr and Mrs Cs main complaint point is the fact that the NatWest representative 
told them  that the Advantage Gold accounts  travel  insurance policy  would cover  pre-existing 
medical conditions.  Theyve said that they made the representative aware that Mr C had a 
number of existing  conditions, and they were assured these  would be covered.
Mr and Mrs C have now complained that when another medical condition arose, they called 
the travel  insurance  provider to discuss it. At that point they found out that Mr Cs other 
conditions hadnt  in fact been  covered,  and wouldnt be unless they paid an extra premium.
I fully appreciate what Mr and Mrs C have said and Ive thought very carefully about their 
points. And I can understand why they might be disappointed to find out that the conditions  
they thought had been covered, in fact werent. But I also need to look at everything 
NatWest did or didnt do, to decide  whether Mr and Mrs C wouldve acted  differently  if the 
point theyve now complained about hadnt  happened.
I do understand there was probably some  sort of a discussion about Mr Cs medical 
conditions when the account  was sold. After all, Im sure it wouldve been important to him 
that they were  covered. But Mr C has also explained that he had three medical  conditions.  
Thinking about  whats most likely here,  I think its unlikely that the NatWest representative 
wouldve known enough about the account to know  and to tell Mr and Mrs C  that all of 
those conditions were  covered  without any sort of excess or screening.  And If Mr and Mrs C 
were led to believe that all medical conditions were  covered by the policy,  I think its unlikely 
that theyd have called the travel insurer when Mr C was diagnosed with a further condition.
NatWest says it sent Mr and Mrs C a welcome  pack shortly  after they opened their account. 
And Ive also seen evidence that it sent them an Annual Summary of Eligibility  each year.  I 
havent seen these documents, but from what I know about them, and from looking at 
samples of them,  I do think NatWest most likely  made it clear that any pre-existing medical  
conditions needed  to be discussed  with the travel insurer.  Thats not to say that they 
wouldve been automatically excluded from cover, or a premium was automatically payable, 
but they did need to be declared.  
Fortunately I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mr and Mrs C have lost out, or been  
declined any claims as a result of the incorrect information that they say they were  given. 
And this, alongside the information that NatWest gave them  in the welcome  pack and sent to 
them annually makes  me think that they likely wanted the Advantage Gold  account for the 
other benefits it offered, as well as the travel insurance. And Im not persuaded that they 
were misinformed to the extent that they wouldnt have taken the account if things had 
happened differently.
Having considered this point, I havent seen anything to make me think that what NatWest 
did or didnt  do has caused Mr and Mrs C detriment. So I cant  tell NatWest  to put anything 
right.
NatWest also had to give Mr and Mrs C enough  clear information about the other benefits of 
the Advantage Gold account for them to decide if they wanted it. Mr and Mrs C havent used 
the benefits much, but it looks like they registered to use the online benefits system, and 
they also registered a mobile  phone under the accounts insurance policy.  So I think  
NatWest told them  about the accounts  other  main  benefits, and they were interested  in at 
least some  of them. 
Ref: DRN39031443I also think NatWest gave  them information on how to use the benefits  in order to know  
how to register their mobile phone. Mr and Mrs C may not have used or made claims on all 
of the benefits,  but this doesnt  make me think that NatWest mis-sold the account. 
Its possible that NatWest  didnt tell Mr and Mrs C everything it should have about the 
Advantage Gold account. But I havent  seen enough to make me think  that Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt still have taken  it, even  if NatWest had told them more about  it.
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs C say they asked to downgrade their account  to a fee-free 
account on 9 May 2018. They say they had to ask for this to be done  repeatedly,  and they 
then received a letter  to let them know their account  was still a Select Platinum (packaged) 
account.
From what  Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Cs account was changed to a fee-free Select  account  on 
the date theyve said  9 May 2018. I can see they signed a form to authorise this 
downgrade in a NatWest branch, and the form specifies that there may be a pro-rata charge 
the following  month, as a partial months  packaged  account fee. 
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs C were told in advance about  the pro-rata charge but 
NatWest refunded that in June 2018. So although  I dont think  NatWest needed to do that, I 
it was a fair thing for it to do. Ive also seen that NatWests response to Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint  which was sent in July 2018  does in fact tell them their account  would remain 
a Select  Platinum account. I agree  this wouldve caused some confusion. But having  
considered everything  else Ive seen, Im satisfied that their account  was downgraded when 
they requested  it to be in May 2018, and the reference to the Select Platinum account in the 
letter sent in July 2018 was a mistake.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
NatWest mis-sold the Advantage Gold account to them or failed to convert their account  to a 
free-free account when  they asked it to. So I dont  think it owes them any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3903144