K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc blocked his account and then closed it without 
notice, and about related issues.
background 
Mr H had four accounts with Barclays. In April 2018 Barclays  suspended his accounts for 
nine days. During  this time, he was unable  to access his money. His direct debits and 
standing orders were  not paid, and so he incurred charges totalling £150. Barclays then 
closed the accounts without notice.  After that he had to attend  a branch with two forms of 
identification to claim his closing balance, about £900.
Mr H got his money back, but he received conflicting letters  from Barclays:  one saying that 
his accounts would  remain open,  and another saying  they would be closed. This is not in 
dispute, and Barclays  has accepted  that the former letter was generated by mistake.  Mr H 
called the bank many times to resolve the matter,  and one of the call handlers kept referring 
to him by the wrong name.
Mr H complained to our Service. One of our investigators upheld  his complaint. She thought  
that although the bank  had not been wrong  to block his accounts, and had been entitled  to 
close them,  it should have  given him 60 days notice  before closing them. She 
recommended that Barclays pay him £200 compensation for that, and another  £250 for poor 
customer service.  Barclays  agreed  that it could  have given Mr H 60 days notice, and agreed  
to pay him £450.
Mr H was not satisfied  with that decision. He asked for £2,000, and a written  apology. The 
bank has since provided a written apology. But the investigator still thought  that £450 was 
fair compensation, and so this complaint has been  referred to me for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, since  Barclays  has conceded 
that it should have given  Mr H notice before closing his accounts, I have not reconsidered 
that issue afresh. Instead, I have confined myself to deciding how much compensation is fair 
for that issue, and for the customer  service issues.
I will not award compensation for the nine days during which  the accounts were suspended,  
however, as I dont  think that the bank  was wrong  to do this.
Rather than treat the account closure and poor customer service as separate issues,  I have  
assessed the overall compensation  figure  in the round. Having  done  so, I agree that £450 is 
fair, and in line with what our Service would typically award. I appreciate  that Mr H feels  
strongly about this complaint, but I dont agree that it is worth £2,000.
I have read the banks  written apology, and it clearly  is not merely a template  (as Mr H 
feared it might be). I think it comes across  as sincere. There is no need for the bank to do 
more.
Ref: DRN38899952my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank Plc to pay Mr H £450.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3889995