K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about a fault with a car that was supplied  to him under a conditional  sale 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited,  trading  as Close Brothers  Motor  Finance.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr L under a conditional  sale agreement  with Close  Brothers that 
he electronically signed in June 2016.  He contacted Close Brothers about a warning light the 
following month  and there were failed attempts to repair the fault. Mr L then wanted to take 
the car to a manufacturers dealer for a repair. That happened in November 2016 and Close 
Brothers, the dealer and Mr L all contributed to the repair cost. 
Mr L contacted Close  Brothers in April 2018  and said that the same issue  had reoccurred. 
He said that he wanted to voluntarily terminate the agreement  but the cars MOT certificate 
was expiring and the car wouldnt pass an MOT test with a warning light on. Close  Brothers 
said that the car needed an MOT certificate if he was going to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement. He complained to Close Brothers but wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that if the 
issue had remained after November 2016 it would be reasonable to expect that it ought to 
have been raised  or addressed before the matter of voluntary termination  was discussed 
seventeen months later. And he couldnt  say that Close Brothers had acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in handling Mr Ls complaint. Mr L has asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that there was an issue with a warning light on the car soon after it was 
supplied to Mr L. And unsuccessful attempts were  made to rectify that issue.  Mr L then said 
that he wanted a manufacturers dealer to repair the car. That happened in November 2016 
and Close  Brothers, the dealer and Mr L all contributed to the repair  cost.  
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Mr L made any further complaint about that issue until 
April 2018 - about seventeen  months later. So I consider it to be reasonable to conclude  that 
the repair had rectified  the issue. And Ive seen no evidence - other  than what Mr L says - to 
show that the cars faulty (or that it would fail an MOT test) because  of an issue  that was 
present with the car when  it was supplied to him. 
And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Close Brothers to take any action about the issue that Mr L reported in April 2018  
seventeen months after the initial issue had been repaired and 22 months since the car was 
supplied to him.
Mr L has said that he wants to voluntarily terminate the agreement and return  the car  but 
he said that its MOT  certificate was expiring and the car wouldnt pass  an MOT test because  
of the warning light. Close Brothers  gave him the information that he needed to voluntarily 
terminate his agreement   but it said that the car would need to have a valid MOT certificate. 
Ref: DRN39309592The conditional sale agreement  requires  Mr L:  to maintain the car in reasonable order  
and condition ; and says that on termination of the agreement, the car must be returned: 
 with any registration document, tax disc, MOT  certificate and any other documents  of 
title.  
So if Mr L returns the car  either at the end of the term or as a result of a voluntary 
termination  he will need to return it with a valid MOT certificate. I can appreciate the 
frustration that Mr L feels about  that but I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and Im not persuaded that Close Brothers has acted incorrectly  or that its 
response to his complaint has been unfair or unreasonable. So I find that it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Close  Brothers to take any action in 
response to Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L says that hes still in possession of the car but that hes stopped  making the payments 
under the conditional sale agreement.  He refers to his sons medical  issues  for which  he 
has my sympathy  but I suggest  that he contacts Close Brothers to discuss his options 
under the agreement for the car. And if hes suffering financial difficulties its required to 
respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3930959