K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains as a director of P, a company, that A-Plan Holdings mis-sold  him a buildings 
insurance policy which has been cancelled by the insurer, leading  P to lose a substantial 
amount following a fire in the block of flats of which P is the leasehold owner.
background 
In August  2017  Mr K approached A-Plan  to buy a policy to cover  two blocks of flats that P 
was due to complete the purchase  of, on a long lease from the freeholder.  The terms of the 
lease allowed P to sublet the flats in the block. A-Plan asked him if he wanted  cover for loss 
of rent and contents  he said he did not. But he wanted cover for liability and legal costs.  He 
says he also wanted cover for fixtures and fittings  like bathrooms  and kitchens. He explained 
that the freeholder insured the blocks and a contribution to the premium  by the leaseholders 
was required by the lease. Notwithstanding  this, A-Plan proceeded to sell P a property 
owners buildings policy with cover for Landlords fixtures  and fittings  only.
The policy started  in early September 2017, a few days  before  the purchase of the leasehold  
interest completed. Subsequently, within seven days (but after completion of the purchase), 
there was a fire which  caused substantial damage to several flats. The tenants had to move 
out. P subsequently made a claim to the insurer. As P only had a leasehold interest  with no 
contractual liability to insure the building,  the insurer said it wouldnt cover the claim and 
cancelled the policy due to P having  no insurable interest. It was recorded as not taken up.
The insurer  of the freehold also wouldnt cover Ps claim. It said it had no liability for loss of 
rent (as P wasnt the policyholder)  and the landlords  fixtures  and fittings werent  the 
freeholders liability so it wouldnt  pay for those either.
Mr P complained that A-Plan had mis-sold  the policy to him  he had made it clear  that the 
building was insured by the freeholders so just wanted cover  for fixtures and fittings, and 
landlords liability to the tenants. He believes that A-Plan should cover  his liability  for tenants 
fixtures and fittings.
A-Plan agreed that it shouldnt have sold him the buildings policy  and refunded the premium, 
agreeing with the insurer that it would be marked not proceeded with. But it wouldnt pay 
him anything  in respect of the claim  as it said this should have been covered by the 
freeholders insurance.
On referral to this service  our investigator  agreed  that the policy had been  mis-sold. He 
proposed that A-Plan pay £200 to P for inconvenience. He further said that A-Plan should 
approach insurers  on its panel to find out the cost of an appropriate policy,  without loss of 
rent or contents cover and then pay to P the amount of any claim that could  have been  
successfully made under  that policy.
A-Plan sad no such policy would  have been able to be offered by any of its panel insurers,  
without contents  or buildings cover, nor was any available on the market.  Our investigator 
said it wasnt likely that Mr K would have found a policy without paying a high premium for 
specialist insurance.  So he said A-Plan  should  just pay the £200  for inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Mr K had on behalf of P sought  a policy which  
covered damage  by tenants particularly to areas  like the kitchen and the bathroom.  He had 
specifically told A-Plan that the buildings were insured  by the Freeholder, but was still sold a 
Ref: DRN33235402policy for the buildings.  I said that it was likely if he had been advised  properly  that Mr K 
would have sought cover  for landlords fixtures and fittings, for which I said its likely that a 
policy would have been available. So I said that A-Plan should  pay a cash  settlement to P on 
the basis of the terms and conditions of the policy  actually sold to P as though  they covered 
landlords fixtures and fittings. But if the settlement  couldnt be agreed,  I said,  A-Plan would 
have to appoint  a firm of loss adjusters to assess the claim and what should  be paid.
P is now represented by F, a firm of claims advisers.  They  said that:
It would  be fair for the fixtures and fittings  sum insured to be assessed at £25,000 since  
the policy schedule  seems to set the £20,000 as the declared  value.
On the basis that the landlords  fixtures and fittings would  most  likely have had to be 
linked to nominal  contents cover, its likely that P would have had £10,000  contents  
cover which  A-Plan  should also be liable for.
It doesnt believe A-Plan assessed  Ps demands  and needs fairly. It says I should  
consider whether A-Plan should have advised  P to take out a much higher fixtures  and 
fittings cover, since £20-25,000 was much too low for 16 flats.
A-Plan didnt agree  with my provisional decision.  It said
It agrees it shouldnt have sold a buildings policy to P but doesnt  agree that there  was 
any loss.
A policy to cover  landlords  fixtures and fittings alone wouldnt have been available 
through any of its panel insurers.
Mr K did not identify that he was installing any landlord fixtures  and fittings at the 
property, and therefore there was no identified need  for it to address or make any 
recommendation against.
Mr K said there was some  fire and water  damage to some fixtures  and fittings but that he 
would be replacing them  all at his own cost, so there is no loss there.
Mr K hasnt  shown that but for the mis-sale, he would  have  bought a policy elsewhere.
                                   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
I must make it clear  first of all that this decision solely concerns Ps complaints regarding 
the sale of the policy  by A-Plan. I havent considered  whether either the insurer chosen by 
A-Plan, or the freeholders insurer could or should have covered any loss.
Mr K approached A-Plan because P was on the verge of completing the purchase of two 
blocks of flats on a long lease. He wanted  a block policy  to cover any damage caused by 
for example, a fire or maliciously  by the tenants, and any public liability  or legal costs. A-Plan 
obtained a quote for a landlords policy covering  the building and landlords fixtures  and 
fittings. Mr K then advised that the freeholder had a buildings policy in place and the service 
charge included a contribution to the premium. A-Plan didnt discuss with him how this would 
affect the buildings policy but did explain that the major liability would lie with the freeholder 
 it advised Mr K to check on the provision for tenants if they had to be housed  in alternative 
accommodation during an insurance  claim.
Ref: DRN33235403I think A-Plan sold the wrong insurance  to P. This is clear as the insurer  effectively said it 
wouldnt have issued  such  a policy to leaseholders where it had no liability  to insure.  A-Plan 
should have made the insurer aware of Ps position  as a leasehold owner. So the question  is 
what sort of policy should it have  sold to P i.e. what did it need coverage  for?
From listening to the phone calls with A-Plan  I think its clear that Mr K wanted cover  for legal 
and public liability but also cover for where there was damage to the property particularly 
fixtures and fittings like in the bathroom  and kitchen. As for loss of rent Mr K clearly said he 
didnt want cover for rent protection  where the tenant gets into arrears  with the rent. The 
policy as issued didnt  cover loss of rent where an insured event caused  the tenants  to move 
out  it was available as additional cover but it wasnt  taken out. And I know from the calls 
that Mr K was keen  to keep the premiums  down.
But the policy did provide £20,000 worth of cover  for landlords  fixtures and fittings. And 
whilst these might commonly be covered in a buildings policy,  its not so unusual  for an 
individual flat owner to want  coverage  for those  where there is a block policy  for the whole 
building. I dont see that this is very different here.  If A-Plan had been  advising properly it 
would have known  that a buildings policy  wasnt  suitable. 
Im aware that policies  with just legal and public liability cover were  unlikely to have been 
available at a reasonable premium and, if they had this wouldnt have helped  P in respect of 
the claim.  Such  cover  would only have been  generally available as part of a buildings or 
contents policy. Im aware that Mr K opted not to have contents cover, but if hed been  aware  
that the policy proposed wasnt available, I think its likely that he would have sought 
coverage for Landlords fixtures and fittings, and I think  a policy  is likely  to have been 
available for that even  if allied to nominal contents  cover. At the very least Mr K should have 
been told to check  with the freeholders  insurance  that he would be covered. The policy  as 
issued to P had coverage for landlord fixtures and fittings thus giving a false sense of 
security.
I accept that Mr K didnt  want loss of rent or contents coverage.  but I think it likely that if the 
policy hadnt been mis-sold by A-Plan,  P would have been  able to buy a policy  giving cover 
for the fixtures and fittings not covered by the freeholders insurance.  So I think A-Plan  
should consider  any losses  relating to landlords fixtures and fittings  which the freeholders 
insurer has declined to pay. As we dont know what those losses  are or whether they would 
have been covered under the terms of any policy covering fixtures  and fittings I propose that 
A-Plan do the following:
On the basis of the terms and conditions of the policy actually sold to P, A-Plan  should:
Assess Ps claim for loss or damage  to fixtures and fittings and agree a cash  settlement to 
pay to P. Or, if a payment  cant be agreed  for any reason A-Plan should appoint  an 
independent loss adjuster  to assess the claim with reference to the same  policy. A-Plan 
should then pay to P compensation equivalent to the amount assessed to be payable  (if any) 
by the said loss adjuster.
A-Plan should also pay £200  compensation for inconvenience caused. As a limited company 
P cant suffer distress but it can through its directors  suffer  inconvenience  so. I think  its 
appropriate for it to pay that.
Taking A-plans points, whether there  was actually any loss is for the parties to agree or for 
the independent loss adjuster to assess. I note that A-Plan couldnt  get a stand-alone policy  
Ref: DRN33235404to cover landlords fixtures and fittings through any members of its panel. I disagree however 
that such policies  arent  available  on the general market. Particularly to cater for the situation 
where there  is an overall freeholder. 
As regards  cover for fixtures and fittings, Mr K made  it clear  that he wanted cover where the 
tenant caused damage to the property,  particularly for items in the kitchen and bathroom. 
I dont think its reasonable to say, from the content of the phone  calls, that he was just 
seeking legal and public liability cover. Its obviously difficult to assess  what might have 
happened had Mr K been told that a buildings policy wasnt suitable.  As the policy  sold 
included fixtures and fittings cover it seems likely  to me that it wasnt  gone into any further, 
giving Mr K, as Ive said, a false sense of security.. If Mr K had been advised correctly, and 
A-Plan as the broker is the expert  in the relationship, he could have gone elsewhere. Whilst 
no-one can say for certain that he would have done  that, my assessment of the evidence is 
that he most  likely would have done..
I note A-Plans assertion  that Mr K said he was paying for the damaged  fixtures and fittings. 
But he was later asked  for a list of those fixtures and fittings which  he duly provided. Its not 
clear what  items on that list would  have been  classified as fixtures and fittings rather  than 
contents. Its up to P to provide  the necessary evidence to show its loss.
Ive considered Fs points  on behalf  of P. I appreciate that it is artificial  to use the terms of 
the policy that was sold to Mr K. But as there is no definitive version of an appropriate policy  
that might  have been sold to him had he been given the chance to find one, I think its the 
most pragmatic approach.  Looking at that policy there was cover for £20,000 worth of 
landlords fixtures and fittings, so that is the maximum figure P could claim (and I understand 
that the losses are likely to be less than this).
I dont think, given Mr Ks clear indication that he didnt want contents cover that it would be 
reasonable to imply any coverage for contents.  As for the assertion that A-Plan should have 
advised P to have  a higher coverage  for the fixtures and fittings,  the policy schedule made 
clear what  the cover  was and Mr K could have challenged it if hed wanted higher cover.
So I remain  persuaded by my provisional  conclusions, and decision, which are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require A-Plan  Holdings  to:
on the basis of the terms and conditions of the policy actually sold to P, but as though  
landlords fixtures and fittings  are covered, assess Ps claim  for loss or damage to 
fixtures and fittings and agree a cash settlement to pay to P. 
or, if a payment cant  be agreed for any reason appoint an independent  loss adjuster to 
assess the claim with reference to the same policy, and pay to P compensation 
equivalent to the amount assessed to be payable  (if any) by the said loss adjuster.
pay £200 compensation 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Ref: DRN33235405Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3323540