K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a regular premium payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS).
background
Mrs W took out a loan jointly with her late husband  in 1996 with BOS. At the same time they 
took out a regular premium PPI policy in Mrs Ws sole name to cover  their repayments if Mrs 
W was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mrs W.  
Mrs W disagrees. She says nothing about PPI was discussed and she didnt  need  the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice in taking  the policy.  
Mrs W hasnt  provided  much detail about when  she took out her loan and cant remember  
anything about  the sale of PPI which is understandable considering the amount of time that 
has passed. And BOS  havent given us any of the documents  from the time of the sale.  So I 
dont know exactly what was discussed about  PPI or how it was presented.
But because the loan was a joint loan and the policy only covered  Mrs W I think this 
suggests some discussion was had about PPI and who they wanted to be covered. And from 
what I know about BOSs  sales process at the time, I think its likely that BOS wouldve
made Mr and Mrs W aware that PPI was optional and that they had PPI because they chose 
to take it. Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice or that they didnt  
agree to buy it.
BOS is treating the sale as if it advised  Mr and Mrs W to take the policy   this puts Mrs W in 
the best position. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about PPI 
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way so that they could make  an informed choice about 
buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was 
suitable for Mrs Ws needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
Ref: DRN33363012recommendation for Mrs W for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve
made it difficult to make  a successful claim.
Mrs W says she was entitled to redundancy pay and her friends and family  could 
help to make their repayments if she couldnt work. But there  is no guarantee family 
and friends could help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work  benefits 
and for potentially longer, covering her for up to 12 months  if she lost her job and for 
the 60 months if she was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances.  
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs W at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy  she could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr and Mrs W information  in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs W has told us about her circumstances at the 
time, I think she wouldve  still taken out the PPI policy  if shed been  given all the proper 
information by BOS.
This means  that BOS hasnt done anything wrong and I wont  be upholding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3336301