K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham and 
Gloucester PLC (C&G) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs K case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
C&G had to make Mr and Mrs K aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr and Mrs K 
applied for their mortgage and PPI, but C&G  have  provided a copy  of the available 
paperwork. Mr and Mrs K completed an application form that was separate  to their mortgage  
application when  they took the PPI, which  both of them also signed separately  to agreeing 
with their mortgage. So I think C&G made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs K didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs K have  told us they were  self-employed at the time they took the PPI so 
the policy wasnt suitable for them.  They have  also said they had other insurance in place 
and some savings. But the PPI didnt make it any more difficult  for a self-employed  person to 
make a claim. And while  Mr and Mrs K had other insurance it doesnt  look like they would 
have covered their entire income.  The PPI would also have covered circumstances that the 
other insurance wouldnt have and allowed them to keep  any savings they had in place to be 
used towards other expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, they werent affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. So I think the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But C&G will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because: 
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because C&G didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN33675812To put that right, C&G has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
C&G has to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. C&G should also pay back to Mr and Mrs K any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
C&G should pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. C&G should also 
pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367581