K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has paid only part of his claim under 
a travel insurance policy. He also complains  that it dealt poorly with the claim.
Mr Bs wife Mrs B took out the policy on his behalf and has brought the complaint  to us. But 
for ease  Ill refer to all the comments as being Mr Bs. My references  to IPA include its 
agents.
background
Unfortunately Mr B had a heart attack while abroad, and received a substantial  medical bill. 
He complained about the service he received when Mrs B called IPA about his condition.
IPA said that Mr B had taken out a policy that wasnt suitable for anyone, like Mr B, whod 
had any medical  conditions in the previous five years. It said it would have charged him 
more for a policy that covered his medical  conditions, so it paid only 52.9% of the claim. It 
accepted it could have been  more empathetic when Mrs B had called it and paid £100 
compensation for that. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and came to us. Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but 
thought IPAs settlement had been fair and in line with the relevant law. Mr B said other 
people had complained about this policy and sent further information  about this and the 
medical questions  being asked. The complaints  come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think IPA has made a fair settlement, so Im not going to order it to pay any more to Mr B. 
Ill explain  why, focussing on what I think are the main issues. 
When Mr B applied  for the policy through a price comparison website he was asked about 
any pre-existing medical conditions:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered any medical  
condition, (medical or psychological disease, sickness,  condition, illness or injury) that has 
required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery, tests  or investigations?
Mr B answered no to this question, and this meant  he was able to apply for a bronze 
policy. But IPA says that he was careless and that he should  have  answered  yes to this 
question. If hed done so it wouldnt have offered him the bronze policy at all. Instead  it 
would have offered  a policy for someone whod had past medical  conditions.
IPA says Mr B should have told it that hed had treatment  and/or tests or investigations for a 
chest infection, back pain and a cyst in the previous five years. Ive looked at the medical 
evidence and Ive thought  about  Mr Bs comments. 
Mr B says he didnt have a chest  infection  that was only what  hed told the doctor when he 
went in to the surgery. But the doctors  notes record an URTI, which is an upper respiratory 
Ref: DRN36127392tract infection. So I think it fell within the question asked about  medical  conditions  within  the 
last five years question asked on the comparison website.  
For the back pain,  Mr B had been referred for further  investigations  and been  given 
prescription medication. And although the cyst was fortunately  benign,  hed also had 
investigations for it. Both the referrals  for pack pain and the cyst were in the 12 months 
before Mr B applied for the IPA policy. So even though he might not have remembered the 
chest infection, I think that taking reasonable care he should have answered yes to the 
question on the comparison  website. 
I understand Mr B didnt  think these were ongoing medical conditions, but the question 
asked him about  any medical condition hed had in the previous five years  where  hed 
needed prescribed medication including surgery, tests and investigations. So I think  he failed  
to take reasonable care when answering  this question. And IPA has shown it wouldnt have 
offered him the bronze policy at all if hed answered yes to this question. 
In this case IPA has agreed  to pay a proportionate  settlement of the claim. This is based  on 
the premium it would have charged for a policy for someone whod  had medical conditions in 
the previous five years. Mr B had paid £18.09 for the policy  but he should have paid £34.18.  
This means  he paid only 52.9% of the premium he should have paid. 
Our adjudicator has explained about  the relevant law, which  is called the Consumer 
Insurance (Representations  and Disclosure) Act 2012 or CIDRA. Where a consumer 
doesnt take reasonable care in answering an insurers clear question  the insurer  is able to 
take certain action  to put things right, which is called a remedy under CIDRA. 
In this case, IPA was entitled to pay the claim in the same proportion  as the premium it 
received, as compared to the premium  that Mr B should have paid. In paying £18.09 Mr B 
paid 52.9% of the premium he should otherwise  have paid. So IPAs decision to pay 52.9% 
of the claim was a fair one. 
I do understand Mr B thinks this is very unfair. Ive looked at the website comments from 
other customers but I can decide  his complaint only on its own individual  facts  and merits. 
Thats what  Ive done here and I think IPAs  settlement was fair. 
Mr B has sent details of a website question asking about relevant medical conditions in the 
previous 12 months.  But through  the comparison website he was asked about medical 
conditions within the last five years. Taking  reasonable care he should  have answered yes 
to that question. And looking at his medical records I can see that even if hed then been 
asked only about  medical conditions in the last 12 months  hed still have needed to tell IPA 
about the back pain and cyst. And Im satisfied  that would have meant IPA would still have 
charged him a higher premium of £34.18. So IPA has paid the claim in the same  proportion 
as the premium he paid,  and its made  a fair settlement.
For completeness I think the £100 compensation paid by IPA for its lack of empathy was fair. 
Ref: DRN36127393my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr Bs position,  my decision is that I dont uphold  this 
complaint because I think IPA has already made a fair settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3612739