K821x#15Complaint
Miss D has complained that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) unfairly continued 
applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial hardship.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 8 July 2021,  which forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold Miss Ds complaint and invited 
both parties to make any final comments ahead  of my final decision. 
Following this, RBS didnt provide anything further  for me to think about or ask for any 
additional time to do so. Miss D responded to confirm that she accepted my decision and 
that she had nothing further  to add. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Miss Ds complaint  in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party,  I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im still upholding  Miss Ds complaint.
Fair compensation  what  RBS  needs to do to put things right  for Miss  D.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all overdraft interest,  fees 
and associated charges (this doesnt include any packaged account fees) applied 
to it from December 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Miss D to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds credit 
file, it should backdate  this to December 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along  with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Ds credit  file. 
Ref: DRN36697952 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision of 8 July 2021,  Im 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN36697953COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss D has complained that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) unfairly continued 
applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial hardship.
Background
Miss D also complained about the sale of a packaged bank account. But weve  already 
looked at that case  and provided an answer. So this decision is only looking at her concerns  
regarding the overdraft charges applied to her account.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think RBS acted  unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees from December 2013. By this 
point, it was evident Miss D was in financial difficulty.  A cursory look at her statements 
leading up to this period  shows  that shed been hardcore borrowing  in other words 
spending extended periods in her overdraft  without seeing a credit balance.  And the income 
going into the account  which  was primarily made up of benefits  didnt indicate that there 
was a prospect  of the overdraft being cleared within a reasonable period. 
So I think that by December 2013  RBS should have stopped  providing  the overdraft on the 
same terms  and treated  Miss D with forbearance  rather  than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on her overdraft.
All of this means  that RBS should have realised that Miss D was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered her assistance. As RBS didnt react to Miss Ds account usage  and 
instead continued charging  in the same  way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss D ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges at a time when she was 
already experiencing difficulty. So Im intending to say that Miss D lost out because  of what 
RBS did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say RBS needs  to do to put things right  for 
Miss D.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Miss Ds complaint for RBS to put things 
right by:
Ref: DRN36697954Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all overdraft interest,  fees 
and associated charges (this doesnt include any packaged account fees) applied 
to it from December 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Miss D to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds credit 
file, it should backdate  this to December 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along  with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Ds credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Miss Ds complaint and tell 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 22 July 2021 changes  my mind,  thats what  
Ill tell RBS to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3669795