K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  said he didnt  meet the criteria for a 
mortgage he had applied for. Hes also unhappy  with the service he received.
background
On 29 June 2018 Mr R applied online for a mortgage with Nationwide as he was moving to a 
new house.
On 2 July his accountant completed the accountants certificate for Mr Rs income in years 
ending February  2016  and February 2017. Nationwide  says it received the certificate on 
10 July.
Having considered that Nationwide  emailed Mr R on 13 July to decline the application as it 
didnt meet its affordability criteria. Mr R says that email went  into his spam folder and he 
only saw it on 15 July. Mr R raised  a complaint with Nationwide, he says Nationwide had 
judge and Juried the Application based  on Faulty dates (partly  accountants fault)  Made 3 
remarks in my complaint. Point (a) I was asked on my application for CURRENT  PERIOD  
EXPECTED income. For me this is company year ENDING February  2019  and PREVIOUS 
year, company ending FEBRUARY 2018.  (b) Complained important emails going  to SPAM 
folder, (c) Complained they based the decline on incorrect  dates with NO CONTACT to 
myself to clear this up.
Mr R says he was unhappy  with contact he had with the call centre  as they seemed 
detached from the mortgage team. He says they couldnt find a trace of his documents, told 
him lots of people complain of emails going to their spam folders and gave him incorrect  
information about SA302s that isnt relevant to him as a director of a limited company.
Mr R exchanged contracts on the sale of his property on 20 July and completed the sale on 
23 July.
There was further  contact where Mr R says Nationwide  couldnt find the information hed 
sent and that he was again asked for information that wasnt  relevant to his income and 
employment status.
On 26 July Mr Rs accountant  emailed a second accountants certificate to Nationwide 
saying the accounts for the year ending February  2018  had now been submitted. This time 
the certificate was for the years ending February 2018 and February 2017. It also said as at 
28 February 2018 there were retained  profits  that Mr R was entitled to.
The underwriter looked at the application  again on 31 July but said it was still outside criteria.
Nationwide responded to Mr Rs complaint on 16 August and apologised for the application 
being declined  on 13 July before the most recent  years income had been provided. It paid 
£50 compensation  for that. But it said the decision to decline the application was correct.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed and so its been  passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ref: DRN30089952Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr R wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read and considered 
the whole  file - and listened to Mr Ms phone  call with the adjudicator - Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked 
and answered.
I appreciate Mr R feels Nationwide was being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
whether to lend to particular consumers. Lenders  are able to use their commercial 
judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers.  My role is to ensure such 
judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the 
lenders.
In this case, Im satisfied  Nationwide  fairly  applied  its lending  criteria to Mr Rs application. It 
follows that Im satisfied Nationwide didnt act unreasonably in being unwilling to take Mr Rs 
application forward.
Mr R has made much  of the fact he says Nationwide asked him on the online application for 
his current periods income; that is, Mr R says Nationwide  asked  him for his income from 
February 2018 (so thered  then be an element of projection for the remainder of that year 
through to February 2019). 
But thats not the case. I can only assume Mr R misread or misunderstood  the question as 
the online form doesnt ask for the current period that Mr R was in at the time of the 
application. Ive reviewed the online system and Im satisfied  Mr R was asked  for his Salary  
(including dividends)  latest period and Salary (including dividends)  previous period. By 
latest period Nationwide  means the latest completed period, so for Mr R in June 2018 that 
was the period running from February 2017  to February  2018.  It wouldnt have asked for 
details of the current period Mr R was in as Nationwides lending policy doesnt allow it to 
take that into account.
Mr R declared  his salary (including dividends) for both years as £60,000. But even if Mr R 
had misunderstood  the question and provided his projected 2018/19  figures and his finalised 
figures for 2017/18  then thats  not correct. Mr Rs accountant confirmed the finalised 2017/18 
figures were  £8,152  salary and £24,000  dividends; a total of £32,152,  far shy of the £60,000 
declared. Mr R has said he had retained  profits for the year but Nationwide  doesnt  take 
those into account  as it wasnt income Mr R had received and paid tax on. Even  if it was 
included the accountant gave that figure  as £14,553  so it still doesnt add up to the £60,000  
Mr R had declared.
Nationwides policy is that it uses the last years  income or an average of the last two years 
income, whichever is lower. Mr Rs salary plus dividends for year-end February 2018 was 
£32,152, year-end February 2017 was £18,272 and year-end February 2016 (which  was 
used in the initial decline decision before the 2018  figures were  available) was £42,550.
Ref: DRN30089953I understand Mr R is unhappy  that Nationwides emails went  into his spam  folder  and about 
the communications he had with Nationwide. Ive considered all this and Im not persuaded 
any compensation is due for those issues.
Some email providers have stronger spam filters than others and thats  outside  of 
Nationwides control. Mr R says he found the relevant emails within days  and the delay in 
him reading  them didnt cause  any financial loss. Were not the regulator  and its not our role 
to tell Nationwide to change how it does business,  so I cant  order  it to make  any changes  
that might  limit the amount of emails that divert to spam folders.
Its also clear  there was a fair bit of backwards  and forwards between the parties, but much  
of that was due to the fact Mr R didnt answer the income  questions  correctly on his online 
application so things got drawn out. If Mr R had provided his correct  salary and dividends for 
year ending February 2018  and February  2017  then Nationwide could have told him straight 
away that the application didnt meet its criteria. Nationwide could have been more clear  with 
its communications, but Im satisfied it was correct in its decline decision and it made that 
soon after it received the information it needed  from Mr Rs accountant. For that reason I 
award no compensation for this part of Mr Rs complaint.
Finally, whilst its not entirely clear it seems  Mr R may think hed have been able to get the 
mortgage if hed applied through an intermediary. Thats not the case.  An application goes 
through the same underwriting process  whether received directly or through an intermediary. 
So the same  application  made through an intermediary would also have been  declined.
Nationwide has paid £50 compensation  for not waiting  for Mr Rs 2018  income  figures and 
that is more than fair. Having considered everything I make no other  order  or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr R to accept  or reject  my decision before  30 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3008995