K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has passed her debt to a business to collect.
background
Ms B says her debt has been  passed  to a company whom I will call W. She complains 
about the way in which W has treated her and says its been aggressive  in its dealings with 
her. She also says its threatened her and she would  like HSBC to take the debt back.
HSBC says the debt goes  back  to about  2012  and it made the decision in early  2018 to pass  
her debt to W. It says it still owns the debt and has raised Ms Bs concerns with W and will 
review any other complaints about W. HSBC says Ms B should  contact  W about the debt 
and if possible agree any repayment plan with it. 
Ms B brought her complaint to us as but our investigator didnt uphold  it and didnt think 
HSBC had made a mistake or acted  unfairly.  The investigator thought it likely that the 
account terms and conditions would allow HSBC to pass her debt to W and HSBC  had acted  
fairly by speaking to W about Ms Bs concerns.
Ms B doesnt accept  that view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
view as the investigator. I realise Ms B will be disappointed by my decision.
I think it likely that the original account terms and conditions  would  have allowed HSBC  to 
either sell a debt or use a third party company such as W to collect  a debt. I think  those sorts 
of conditions and arrangements  are common practice and allow  banks and building  societies 
to use specialised  companies to collect debts. I appreciate that due to the time that has 
passed since these  accounts were opened HSBC has been unable  to provide the account 
opening documents. But I dont think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly  by using  
W in this case.
I appreciate that Ms B would prefer to deal with HSBC. But Im satisfied that its up to HSBC 
to decide upon such matters when  exercising its commercial judgment.  I cant fairly interfere 
in those sorts of business decisions.  Im also satisfied  that HSBC  has acted fairly by 
speaking to W about Ms Bs concerns and by offering to monitor the position.
I hope Ms B can reach an agreement with W about  any repayment plan and as the 
investigator has explained she is able to complain  to it directly if she feels  its acted 
inappropriately.
Overall Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably  and hasnt made a mistake.
Ref: DRN30368352my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3036835