K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has reported information about him to CIFAS, 
the UKs  fraud  alert service, and that the bank closed his account. He thinks this is unfair. 
background
Mr D held an account with Barclays. On 22 April 2017, his account was credited  with £2,000 
through a bank transfer. Immediately afterwards  nearly all the money was withdrawn; most 
of it at an Assisted Service Device machine (ASD) at a Barclays  branch and at cash  
machines. There was also a card payment.
On the day of the disputed withdrawals (afterwards), someone  contacted  the bank to report  
they had found Mr Ds card so the bank placed a stop on it. Mr D says he only discovered 
the payments  after receiving a text from Barclays telling him his available  balance  was in 
excess of £2,000. Mr D says he called the bank right away but by this point all the money  
had been taken by someone  purporting to be him.
Shortly afterwards, the payment  into the account  was identified  as fraudulent   the holder of 
the account from which it had been  made  hadnt  authorised it. Following a review,  Barclays  
decided to close Mr Ds account with immediate effect and wrote to tell him. Barclays  says it 
took this decision  based on a report from the other bank that the payment to Mr Ds account 
had been made fraudulently, and the fact that the money was withdrawn from his account 
using his card and PIN. They  didnt feel there  was any plausible  explanation for how a third 
party could have  got hold of the PIN. 
Barclays closed the account and placed  a CIFAS marker against  Mr Ds name. Mr D 
complained, saying he knew nothing about the payment into his account or the withdrawals 
from it  he didnt think Barclays had treated  him fairly.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. Ultimately, they along with one of our 
investigators thought  that Barclays had acted fairly. Mr D didnt agree and asked  that an 
ombudsman review the case. He told us about the difficulties he has had in opening  a new 
account and the impact  this has had on him. He said hed lost his card  before the disputed  
withdrawals took place and that whoever found  it must have got his PIN. He says he kept his 
card with his travel  card in a travel wallet which was in his bag and he believes the card most  
likely fell out when  he used his travel card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive concluded  Barclays 
hasnt treated Mr D unfairly.  I realise Mr D will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why.
Payments
Its common ground that the money paid into the account didnt belong  to Mr D. The transfer 
wasnt authorised  by the account holder and so the payment was the proceeds of fraudulent 
activity. The money was withdrawn immediately after it was deposited.  So Ive reviewed the
available evidence to see how that happened.
Ref: DRN31123912Mr D says he knew nothing about  the payment made to his account or the subsequent 
withdrawals. In order to withdraw the money,  Mr Ds card and PIN were  used. Ive 
considered the various possibilities as to how someone could  have done  this without Mr Ds 
knowledge or consent.
Mr D told us that he thinks he could  have lost his card, possibly while  using his travel card.  
So its possible whoever  withdrew the money had found his card. But that doesnt explain  
how someone finding the card also knew Mr Ds PIN. In my view, its highly unlikely 
someone could  have correctly guessed the PIN from the number of different combinations 
that are available. 
We asked Mr D how his PIN could have become known, including  whether hed ever kept a 
written record  of his PIN. Mr D said he kept a written notification of his PIN in his bedroom 
but that nobody went  there. He also said that apart  from him, only his mum knew  his PIN.
Theres no suggestion Mr Ds mum passed  on his PIN details or that their property was 
broken into. Based on what Mr D has said, I dont see how I could properly conclude  the PIN 
was obtained  from the written  record he says he kept, or that the card was taken from his 
home.
 
Another possibility  is that Mr Ds PIN became  known  to someone else who saw him entering 
his PIN while  using the card. It seems unlikely that Mr D would then have been so 
unfortunate as to lose his card and have  it found by the person who saw him using it. The 
more logical explanation is that if Mr D was observed entering  his PIN, whoever watched  him 
must have  stolen his card rather than simply finding  it.
Mr D last used his card with his PIN some four weeks before the disputed withdrawals. Mr D 
told us that he was alone when he made  this transaction. Of course,  he might be mistaken  in 
this belief, and this might be how his PIN became known. But even if he is, it doesnt  seem 
likely that someone with whom he had no connection,  that had seen him entering his PIN  
either on that occasion or before  would later have been in a position to take the card.
Mr D hasnt given a consistent account  of when he thinks  his card could have gone missing.  
Ive seen the banks notes  from April 2017 and early on in its investigation he said he 
believed his card went missing the day before  the disputed withdrawals began  but hes also 
suggested it could  have been sometime before that. Ive looked  at both these possibilities. 
If the card had been taken a day before the disputed  withdrawals, it makes the possibility of 
the perpetrator being someone  whod simply seen Mr D entering his PIN some weeks before 
much less likely.  The fraud that was carried out here required receiving account details, 
access to Mr Ds card and knowledge  of his PIN.
Could Mr Ds card have  been taken without his knowledge closer to the point he last entered 
his PIN?  That would be a more plausible explanation as to how the withdrawals could be 
made by someone  with no connection to Mr D. But there was then a significant delay 
between the card being taken and being used.  An unacquainted fraudster would be relying 
on Mr D not realising his card was missing  for a number  of weeks before  they carried  out the 
fraud. In waiting, the fraudster would run the risk of Mr D blocking his card,  thereby rendering  
the theft redundant.
Also, if his card was kept in the wallet - inside  his bag - I dont see how someone could have 
taken it without Mr D noticing.  Neither  the bag, travel card or travel wallet went missing.   
Ref: DRN31123913Ive noted what  Mr D has said about the fact that he wasnt using the account and thats  why 
he didnt spot his card was missing. But his account  was accessed through  his mobile 
banking in the days leading up to when  the fraudulent funds  were  paid in (even though  there 
was only a nominal  balance on it). Mr D hasnt suggested his mobile  or online banking  
details were compromised  he says they were safe at home.  The logical inference I draw 
from this is that this was either Mr D checking  his account  which seems odd if he wasnt 
using it  or someone doing so with his permission. 
The other possibility  is that Mr D allowed a third party to use his account, card and PIN, and 
that was how the money was deposited and then withdrawn. Having considered the possible 
explanations for what happened,  I conclude this is the most plausible explanation  based on 
the available  evidence, and so is most likely what happened here.
Mr D has questioned the availability of CCTV coverage of the withdrawals and the payment. 
The extent  to which that might be helpful  if available  is open  to debate. If it showed Mr D 
making the withdrawals,  it would  be conclusive. But if it showed someone other than Mr D 
using his card and PIN, it wouldnt  enable me to exclude the possibility Mr D had allowed 
them to do so. 
Account closure
Ive thought about whether Barclays treated Mr D unfairly in closing his account. But I dont 
think it did. The terms and conditions allowed Barclays to end its relationship  in the 
circumstances at play here. I know that Mr D wanted  to understand why his account had 
been closed and Im satisfied  he now does.
CIFAS marker
Barclays applied the CIFAS marker because it said it believed Mr D had misused the 
account facility.  Ive looked  at whether it was fair for it to do that. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have  carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. Effectively, Barclays needs to have enough information  to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there are reasonable grounds  to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Ds account  of events and the evidence I think  there would have been 
grounds to report the events here to the police to investigate,  and that Barclays wasnt  
unreasonable in placing a CIFAS marker  against Mr Ds name.
Ref: DRN31123914my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything  further to 
resolve Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112391