K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited declared his car a write-off after he 
made a claim for damage to it under his motor insurance policy  and then sold it as salvage 
without telling him. He thinks it could have  been repaired and that hes been the victim of 
fraud, as his car ended up registered to someone  else and back on the road.
background
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident and he claimed under his motor  insurance policy.  
Aviva arranged for his car to be inspected, decided it was uneconomical to repair and 
declared it a write-off. It settled Mr Ms claim based  on what  it considered to be the 
market value of his car. Mr M then discovered  the car was back on the road when he was 
charged for using toll roads.
He complained to Aviva,  but it rejected his complaint as it didnt  think it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr M asked  us to consider his complaint. He initially raised some  other  issues,  but our 
investigator established he wanted to complain about the fact Aviva  had written his car off 
when it was repairable and that it then sold the salvage without telling him. He also wanted 
to complain that Aviva didnt allow anything for the adaptations hed made to his car due to 
his disabilities when  it worked out the market value. Mr M has also complained he didnt 
get back personal possessions that were in the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint, as he didnt think  Aviva had done 
anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
I issued a provisional decision dated 5 June 2020  in which I said the following:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy says that the most Aviva will pay on a claim is the market  value  of his car, 
which is defined as the cost of replacing it with one of the same  make,  model, 
specification and condition.
Aviva valued  Mr Ms car using the standard make  and model,  but didnt factor  in the cost of 
replacing the adaptations  needed for his disabilities. I can see from our check of the guides  
we use to value  cars that what Aviva has paid is the correct cost of replacing Mr Ms car 
with a standard version of the car he had. Although, I can also see it never  actually agreed  
this amount with Mr M. And its clear from Avivas  notes he did not agree with the valuation.  
That said,  I think the replacement cost of a standard  model according to the guides  was the 
right starting point. But, it seems the only way Mr M could actually replace the car like for 
like is if he received enough to buy the same make and model,  plus the extra  needed to 
have it adapted.  So I think Aviva should  have  allowed an extra  amount for the adaptations.
The first adaption  was a flip up left foot accelerator, which  based on the cost of having  this 
fitted to Mr Ms replacement car  would have cost £770 fitted. The second adaption was an 
Ref: DRN37156802upgrade to the suspension to relieve  the back pain Mr M suffers while  driving. Mr M has 
provided receipts for this and it cost £2,785.99.  He also had the front and rear brake discs 
upgraded to make it less effort to stop the car, which helped  him drive it with his disabilities. 
These cost £488.70. And to fit the suspension  kit, discs and associated parts cost 
£1,855.88. I will arrange for Aviva  to be provided with copies of all these  receipts and 
invoices.
Aviva didnt take these  items into account, which meant Mr M didnt receive enough to 
replace his car with one of a similar make, model,  specification and condition. This is 
what the policy says he should have received. So I think the fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint  is for Aviva to pay Mr M a further  £5,900.57 in settlement of his claim to 
reflect these  additional  costs.
Its a general principle of insurance that if an insurer pays  out for something as a total loss it 
gets possession  of the item concerned. This means when Aviva paid out for Mr Ms car it 
was entitled to keep it and sell the salvage. But it should have made  it clear  to Mr M that 
this was going to happen. It did tell him he needed  to send his part of the V5 to DVLA  and 
the other part to its salvage agent, but I dont think this made it clear exactly  what  would 
happen. Although,  Aviva  didnt actually tell Mr M the car would be scrapped. I also think 
that bearing in mind  the car had been specially adapted and it was actually repairable, 
Aviva should  have checked with Mr M when it agreed settlement, whether he wanted  to 
keep it and investigate  whether it could be repaired. But I dont think  it is appropriate for me 
to make Aviva pay compensation for any distress and inconvenience  this caused Mr M now 
that Ive decided they should pay extra for the adaptations, having written the car off and 
sold it on.
I dont agree Aviva has acted fraudulently,  as Mr M has suggested.  I think  it followed its 
normal procedure for total losses and sold the damaged car to its salvage agent who sold 
the car on. It is not clear  how the salvage agent  or new owner managed to register  the car 
in their name  without  Mr M sending his part of the V5 to DVLA, but that is something  Mr M 
would need to take up with DVLA. I appreciate Mr M has also ended up with charges on 
his toll account, but I dont think this was Avivas  fault, as once hed been told he needed to 
send his part of the V5 to DVLA, Mr M would have known the car was to be registered to 
someone else and he could have contacted the toll account provider and removed the car 
from his account.
I appreciate Mr M lost some  personal possessions that were in the car, but these 
were retained by the recovery yard the police used, not Avivas salvage agent.  And 
Aviva explained  this to Mr M. So I dont  think Aviva needs to pay anything for them. 
That said,  it may be willing to pay the policy limit of £150 if Mr M cant now get the 
items back,  as I see it mentioned this in correspondence with him. So Mr M can 
contact Aviva about this if he wants to.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint  
and make Aviva do pay him a further £5,900.57 in settlement  of his claim.
I gave both parties one month to provide further information. 
Mr M has responded to say he was happy to accept my provisional decision. But he made a 
further point and provided some further information about the market value of his car. He 
Ref: DRN37156803said this showed  it would  have cost more  than the valuation guides suggested to replace his 
car. Mr M has also queried why his excess had to be deducted when it was clear it would be 
recovered. 
Aviva has responded  and also provided  some further information and comments.  Its said  
Mr M didnt  declare the modifications to his car and that it wouldnt have insured his car if it 
had been told about the upgrade to the suspension. Its said it would have  still provided  
cover with the foot pedal and the brakes. But it has argued that the adaptation  to the brakes  
would not have increased the value of Mr Ms car and that the foot pedal  was only worth 
£500 second hand. It thinks  the suspension upgrade would have increased the value of the 
car by £900,  but because it wouldnt have provided cover if it had known about this, it 
doesnt think it should have to pay anything  further to reflect it.  
Aviva has also said it thought Mr M was going  to collect the brake pedal adaption kit along 
with his personal belongings, and this was the only modification he mentioned  at the time.  
Although, it acknowledges that Mr M never  actually said he was going to collect  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ms comments, especially what hes said about  the rarity of his car in its 
standard form. But the guides did reflect the likely selling prices of his particular make and 
model and its mileage the time it was damaged.  So, I am still satisfied the market value 
Aviva came up with was a good  starting  point. And I cant  consider his issue  with the excess 
as he hasnt raised this previously as part of his complaint.  All I can say that its normal  for 
an excess to be deducted and then recovered  later either by the customer or their 
representative. 
Ive noted what  Aviva has said about modifications, although I havent seen any 
documentary evidence  to show  Mr M didnt declare them when he insured the car that was 
written off. Aviva has sent a schedule which records the car the bought  to replace it has no 
modifications, but not one that shows this was the case for the previous car. However, Aviva 
had the chance to check into modifications  further when Mr M told them about the foot pedal,  
but chose not to, so I dont think it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint for the fact they werent declared to be used as a reason for not paying anything to 
reflect them.  I say this because if Aviva was concerned the car had been  modified it should 
have inspected it and/or explored with Mr M how hed had the car modified and why he 
hadnt declared the modifications. 
I appreciate Aviva didnt  factor them in to its valuation because Mr M didnt mention all of 
them and it thought (it seems incorrectly) he was going to recover the foot pedal adaption kit. 
But it had the car at its authorised repairer and I think  it should  have asked  Mr M more about  
its history and adaptations  and then allowed for these in its valuation. 
I dont think Aviva has fully appreciated what I said in my provisional decision about the fair 
and reasonable approach, bearing  in mind what its policy  wording says it will pay where a 
car is written-off. And bearing in mind the adaptations  were  because of Mr Ms disability. The 
policy says Aviva will pay what it would cost to replace the car with one of the same make  
and model. And I think this should  be a realistic  amount that reflects  what Mr Ms options 
actually were at the time Aviva settled  his claim.  
Ref: DRN37156804I dont think he could  have  found a car with the required  modifications, so Mr Ms only 
realistic option was for him to use the money  Aviva gave him to buy a standard  model  and 
then pay to have  the adaptations made to it. Aviva seems to be has suggesting  the 
modifications would have increased  the value of Mr Ms car by £1,400. But this is only 
relevant in determining what he could have  sold it for with the modifications,  not what he 
would have had to pay out to get another one with the same modifications. And, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I think this would have been £5,900.57.  So, I still think 
the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Aviva to pay this additional amount 
in settlement of Mr Ms claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is to uphold  
Mr Ms complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must pay a further £5,900.57 in full and final 
settlement of his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3715680