K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) did not apply the correct interest rates  to his 
accounts. He says this has resulted in him losing out on interest  on his accounts.  
background
Mr G had three savings accounts  with Lloyds as well as a cash account  (a current account  
which has been changed to a classic account). He believes that he wasnt given the higher 
interest rates he should have been entitled  to on these accounts.
Although Mr G has complained about  the interest on his accounts from their opening dates, I 
am only able to look at this issue from December 2011 onwards as Mr G brought  the 
complaint to Lloyds  in December 2017. The adjudicator has explained  to Mr G why this is 
and Mr G has agreed with this.
It is important  to mention  that during the period of time that I am considering, Mr G was 
unfortunately in a serious road traffic  accident.  This was in December 2012  while  he was 
abroad. He was in hospital for around  six months after.  Due to this he was unable to manage  
his finances during this time.  A Deprivation  of Liberty Safeguards authorisation was granted 
for three months from 21 February 2013 to 22 May 2013. The accident resulted in a 
permanent medical  condition.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt think  Lloyds had done anything  
wrong.  Mr G didnt  agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate Mr G may be disappointed  by 
this outcome so I will go on and explain why I have reached this decision.
First of all I would like to clarify for Mr G that its not for us to tell Lloyds what interest  rates it 
should offer on its various product range. But we can look to see if Lloyds applied the correct 
interest rates to Mr Gs accounts based on the type of accounts he held, the balance  in the 
accounts and Lloyds published interest  rates tariffs.
Mr G holds/has held a number of accounts with Lloyds over the years, so Ill look at each in 
turn. I should also explain  that banks are only required to keep information for six years.  So 
in some cases, information  dating back more than six years is unavailable. 
Cash account/Classic account ending 3560
This is a current account which was opened in October 2004. There  are certain current  
accounts that pay interest on the balance. However,  this is not one of those accounts and 
nor have I seen any evidence which suggests that it purported to be such an account. 
Therefore I cant say that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably  in not paying Mr G interest 
on this account.  
Ref: DRN32862862I note that Mr G thought  that Lloyds converted the cash account into a classic account  due to 
him bringing his complaint to us. However,  I havent  seen any evidence to suggest that there  
is any connection between Mr G bringing  the complaints  and the change in the account. I 
can see that Lloyds  gave Mr G notice of this account change in April 2018 and this took 
effect in June 2018. And from what Ive seen  I dont think Mr G has lost out because  of the 
cash account being changed to a classic account. If Mr G feels  this account  doesnt meet  his 
needs then it will be for him to make other arrangements.
Savings account  ending  1568 opened in July 2005  still open
I understand that Mr G wanted information about the interest rates  that have been applied to 
his account. As mentioned above  Lloyds no longer has all the information relating to the 
interest rates dating back to before the end of 2013.  But I have set out below the interest 
rates that were applied to Mr Gs account  from December 2013 onwards.  I have also seen 
the statements  relating to this account from December 2011 to February 2018. These show 
that Mr G was earning interest  on his balance. 
Records show that between December 2013  and December 2014  this account attracted 
interest at the rate of 0.75% initially. Based on the record of interest  rates available  for 
various accounts over the years as provided by Lloyds, I note that this was the highest  
interest rate available given Mr Gs balance and account type.  The interest rate was variable 
and I note that it dropped to 0.50%. In December 2014, following the end of the bonus 
period, the interest rate reduced  to 0.20%. In 2015  the account was converted to a standard 
saver account, the interest rate increased to 0.25% until December 2016 when the rate 
dropped to 0.05%. The interest  rate then returned to 0.20% in December 2017.
Mr G has referred  to advertised rates for Lloyds being higher than what he received. 
However, Lloyds says that the interest rate Mr G has quoted  is not an interest  rate which  
they offered.  I have  also checked this against the available interest rates on the records 
provided by Lloyds and also note that the interest rate Mr G has referred  to wasnt one that 
Lloyds offered. 
It is right that there were higher interest rates available for other savings accounts. However, 
it would  have been Mr Gs responsibility to move  his funds to the accounts which he feels  he 
would have benefitted from the most. Lloyds says that whenever  a request to renew was 
made it placed Mr G on the best available tariff. 
The evidence available shows that this account  was renewed as an Easy  Saver  in 
December 2013  (this was around 6 months after Mr G was discharged  from hospital) and 
attracted an interest  bonus for the first 12 months.  Lloyds says that leading  up to the expiry  
of the bonus it would have  sent Mr G notifications to remind him about the expiry date. And it 
says it was Mr Gs responsibility to reconsider renewing this account. Due to the amount  of 
time that has passed, Lloyds no longer has a record of the notification it says would have 
been sent. However, Lloyds has provided  a screen  print of Mr Gs online in box. This goes 
back to April 2014 (even though this particular savings account appears from 2017  
onwards). I note that correspondence relating to Mr Gs savings interest  rates was sent to   
Mr G. And I think its more  likely  that the notification  relating to the expiry  of his bonus  
interest would  also have been  sent to Mr G in 2014.  
The contact  notes recorded by Lloyds pertaining to Mr Gs account  indicate that in 
December 2013  when the account was renewed  as an Easy  Saver, the representative  
suggested that Mr G make a branch appointment to discuss an individual savings account 
Ref: DRN32862863(this went on to attract a higher interest  rate) but the note goes on to say that Mr G said he 
would get back  to them. I havent  seen  anything to suggest that Mr G did get back  in touch 
with Lloyds to set this up. 
So based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant say that Lloyds were  wrong  to apply the interest 
rates it did when it did.  Lloyds would also have  sent out regular statements to Mr G (as is 
evident from the screen print provided).  If Mr G wasnt  happy  with the rates  then he could 
have applied  to move his funds to another account.  
I appreciate Mr G was in hospital for around  six months after his accident. However, I 
havent seen any evidence which would suggest that Mr G would have wanted to make 
changes to his accounts at this time.  I also appreciate  that the accident left him with a 
permanent medical  condition, but, I note that Mr G went on to make other beneficial changes  
to his account in December  2013  as set out above,  which was around six months after his 
discharge. So I think Mr G could have  made  other changes to his account had he wanted to.  
Savings account  ending  1468 opened in March 2011 (closed in December 2013)
This was an Easy Saver  savings account.  I have  seen statements for this account between 
December 2011  and December 2013, these show that Mr G earned interest on this account. 
Again I havent  seen  anything which would suggest  the interest rates  were  applied 
incorrectly or that Lloyds  were under  a duty to move Mr G automatically onto better rates.
I note that there was a significant  reduction  in 2013 of the interest that Mr G earned  on this 
account compared with 2012. However, this appears to have been because Mr G transferred 
a large chunk of his balance in June 2012  into his current account and also because the 
bonus period would have  concluded on the account  as it would only have been for 12 
months from when the account opened.  
After the bonus  period it would have  been  for Mr G to decide whether or not he wanted  to 
renew it or make other changes. I think its most likely that Mr G would have been sent 
mailings regarding  this. The bonus  period would have ended  several  months before Mr Gs 
accident but it appears Mr G did not seek to renew  at this point. And I note that by the time 
of the accident  most of the funds from this account and been transferred out with a nominal 
balance left. This meant Mr G wouldnt really  have been earning any interest  on this account 
anyway at this time. And I note he closed this account within around 6 months  of being 
discharged from hospital.
Savings account  ending  5468 opened in July 2006 (closed in December 2013)
This was an online saver  account.  I have seen statements for this account from             
December 2011  and December 2013. I note that no interest was applied  to this account 
during this period. However,  I havent  seen any evidence to suggest that this was because  of 
something Lloyds  had done  wrong. Instead this seems to be because the account had a 
zero balance for the most  part. Money was deposited on two occasions into this account  but 
transferred out on the same day and so this would not have accrued any interest.
I have thought carefully about the fact that Mr G suffered from a serious injury during the 
period that the accounts were live and that the accident resulted in a permanent medical 
condition. Although Lloyds were  aware of his accident, there is nothing to suggest  that they 
were provided with ongoing  information as to Mr Gs ability to make  decisions regarding his 
finance. I note that Mr G closed two of his accounts  around six months after the accident and 
Ref: DRN32862864liaised with Lloyds  to open an Easy Saver account  in December 2013. So it appears Mr G 
was able to make some decisions  relating to his finances and I cant  see that Lloyds would 
have known that they might need to deal with Mr Gs accounts and the information provided 
to him in a different  way. And as the renewals were  on a non-advised basis, as already  
mentioned, it wouldnt  have been for Lloyds to advise Mr G as to which accounts would be 
most suitable for him in his circumstances.
So all in all, I dont  think Lloyds were wrong to apply the interest  rates as and when they did.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3286286