K821x#15complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance  Limited, trading as Mr Lender (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has said the loans  were unaffordable for him and that he couldnt repay them  in a 
sustainable manner.  He says PDL didn't confirm  his financial circumstances because if it 
had, it would have  been apparent he couldnt  afford to repay them. 
background
This complaint is about five short-term loans  PDL provided to Mr L between 
December 2016  and November 2018. Mr Ls borrowing history  is as follows (I have rounded 
the figures):
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 28/12/2016 26/06/2017 5 £450.00 £194.00
2 23/08/2017 26/10/2017 3 £280.00 £160.00
3 31/10/2017 26/02/2018 6 £450.00 £161.00
4 17/07/2018 26/10/2018 3 £200.00 £127.00
5 02/11/2018 19/11/2018 3 £200.00 £105.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought loans  four and five shouldnt  
have been given. Our adjudicator thought proportionate checks would have shown that Mr L 
owed other  short-term lenders and it was unlikely  Mr L was going to be able to repay his 
loans sustainably. 
PDL disagreed. It said it had carried out the appropriate checks and was aware of 
Mr Ls borrowing but maintained his repayments were affordable. Mr L had repaid his loans 
and repaid loan five two months  early.  
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me in my role as ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN32909762the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ls complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Mr L didnt disagree  with our adjudicators opinion that loans  one to three  shouldnt  be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr L had with PDL. So, it is something I will take into account when considering 
the other loans he took. 
Our adjudicator explained that if PDL had carried out proportionate checks for loans four and 
five it would most likely  have shown Mr L had other short-term loans. And that it was unlikely 
Mr L would  have been able to sustainably  repay  his loans with PDL.
PDL disagreed. It said it was aware  of the other  borrowing  but that the loan repayments  
were affordable and Mr L did in fact repay  his loans. 
I disagree with PDLs comments that just because it had deemed the loans affordable  that it 
was right to lend to Mr L. Being aware of other short-term  lending should have sign posted to 
PDL that it should have  taken a more meaningful review of Mr Ls financial situation. Its well 
understood that short-term borrowing  away from mainstream providers  is an expensive  
way to borrow money. And the fact that Mr L already had taken three loans with PDL, as well 
as having borrowings with other  short-term  lenders would suggest that Mr L was having  
problems with managing his money. I dont think this would have been an unreasonable 
conclusion for PDL to have reached  and taken  a closer look at Mr Ls financial situation.
Ref: DRN32909763PDL has told us Mr L repaid loan five early and without any difficulty.  But I dont necessarily 
agree this is an indication that the repayment was made without any signs  of difficulty   
implying Mr L was managing his money. I appreciate  it saved Mr L interest charges because 
of the early repayment,  but because Mr L was concurrently borrowing  from elsewhere, it 
could equally have  been an indication that Mr L had borrowed to repay loan five early. (And  I 
also note that loan five was taken  out only one week after loan four was repaid) All of which 
doesnt suggest that Mr L was managing his money   more that he was juggling  his finances  
 incurring high levels of cost  and using one loan to repay  another, thereby remaining in 
debt. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four and five and 
PDL should  put things  right.
putting things right  what PDL needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest.  PDL must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3290976