K821x#15Complaint
Miss P complains  that TSB Bank plc told her an account block  had been removed when it 
hadnt.
Background
Miss P tried to purchase around €2,500  on 7 May 2019 using her TSB bank card. But the 
transaction was declined  as it was picked up by TSBs fraud prevention  systems. 
Miss P called TSB on 8 May 2019  to find out why the transaction didnt  go through. TSB 
gave details about the block  and told Miss P it had been removed. 
On 10 May 2019 Miss P attempted the purchase  again but her transaction was blocked. She 
called TSB again  and says she was passed to several different call handlers and 
departments before the block was removed.  Miss P complained and TSB paid her £50 to 
apologise for failing to remove the block on 8 May 2019 and £14 to cover  her call costs.  
Miss P referred her complaint to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator asked TSB to increase the award to £100 as she felt the existing offer didnt 
fairly reflect the impact  of the mistake. 
TSB didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. In response TSB said it had used a 
trouble and upset  calculator to reach a figure of £50 and thought that was fair. TSB says the 
£14 was paid to cover the call costs. As TSB didnt accept the investigators view Miss Ps 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that TSB told Miss P the card block was removed on 8 May 2019,  which  
was wrong. Miss P went on to unsuccessfully retry the currency purchase.  She then had to 
contact TSB again and has told us she spent a long time on the phone and had to speak 
with a range  of people before the situation  was resolved. TSB accepts Miss P spent a long 
time trying to resolve the situation over the phone and paid her £14 to cover  call costs. So I 
need to now make a decision on whether TSBs offer of £50 is fair.
Miss P has told us about the impact  of the issue. For the reasons Ive given above,  Im 
satisfied Miss P unnecessarily wasted time on the phone trying  to resolve the situation  after 
being given incorrect  information. TSB appear  to have  missed opportunities to get Miss Ps 
account working which was clearly  frustrating. 
TSB says that its used  a calculator to reach a figure  of £50. As a service, we look at 
complaints individually and will make awards  based  on their specific circumstances. I note 
everything TSB has said but I agree with the investigator and Miss P that the existing offer 
doesnt go far enough. I think £100  more fairly reflects the level of trouble and upset the 
issue caused Miss P. As Ive said, she was given the wrong information during her call on 
8 May 2019.  Miss P then had to call TSB back  to find out why she still couldnt  make the 
payment. Miss P also had to reattempt  the transaction for a third time. All of which was 
Ref: DRN33995912clearly time consuming and frustrating. So Im going to uphold this complaint and direct  TSB 
to increase its award. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank plc to pay Miss P £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  plus £14 in costs, less any compensation already 
paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3399591