K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996. Mr J 
says AXA France IARD  (AXA) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mr J didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it 
out. I say this because  I have  seen insufficient evidence to uphold the complaint on this 
issue. This sale happened in December 1996, 24 years ago. AXA told us they didnt 
know how the policy was sold.  Mr J thought the policy was sold by the completion of a 
leaflet, which suggests the PPI was sold at the same time as the store card and that 
seems most likely to have been in a store. Considering the time that has passed  since  
the sale, it is maybe not surprising  that neither party has been  able to provide any 
documentation from the point of sale for me to consider. So, considering the time that 
has passed since the sale, and in the absence of detailed testimony  from Mr J to the 
contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence  to be able to uphold  the complaint  on this 
point. 
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. Mr J has provided no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  I have seen no evidence  of a detailed 
Ref: DRN33534752recommendation having been made to Mr J in this sale. So, considering all the 
submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Mr J 
to the contrary,  it seems  most likely that AXA didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr J. So, it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr J 
enough clear and timely information so he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr J  for example he wasnt  affected 
by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what  
he reasonably  thought  he was buying from the information he was given. It also looks  
like it was affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr J would have declined  the cover  had AXA 
done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale and despite 
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for him 
 Mr J told us he had no company sick pay and had no other  means he could  rely on if 
he couldnt work through ill health,  or if he lost his job. So, I think  he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr J would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Js representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant AXA should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of Mr Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Js particular case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Js complaint  so I make no award.
Ref: DRN33534753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3353475