K822xcomplaint
Ms V complains  that Virgin Money plc did not allow her to transfer  to a lower rate mortgage 
interest product  and has not compensated her for this in the way it offered to.
background 
Ms V had an existing  mortgage with Virgin. In September 2015  she asked about transferring 
to a different  mortgage interest product. Virgin told her she couldnt do so. In 2018 Ms V 
complained about this and Virgin agreed it had made  a mistake.  It offered to reconstruct the 
mortgage based on a fixed interest  rate product. It told her she had paid £2,516.58 of extra  
interest and would refund this to the mortgage.  She had also made £1,578.14 more  in 
payments than she needed  to and would get a refund to her bank account. It would pay her 
eight per cent simple  interest on the refund  less tax and give her compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  of £250. 
Ms V accepted the offer.  But she was concerned to find that the refund of £1,578.14 to her 
bank account  had meant that her mortgage balance had increased  by the same amount. 
This was not what she was told. Virgin offered to pay Ms V a further £150 for the distress 
caused by the confusion  and reverse and backdate this refund if thats what  she wanted.
The investigator did not recommend that Virgin do anything more  than it had offered. She 
said that the refund was of extra payments Ms V had made to the mortgage. So it was right 
that the mortgage balance  would increase if these were returned  to her. Virgin  had not 
communicated this clearly  to Ms V. But there were was no basis  for Virgin  to pay her 
£1,578.14. Ms V was not worse off as a result of what had happened and would be able to 
repay her mortgage sooner.
Ms V did not agree. She said that there was an error made both in the final response letter 
from Virgin and during a conversation with a member  of staff. She had not received any 
money back and was not better off. If the refund was paid back to the mortgage it would be 
the same  balance as it was before.  It is not that communication was unclear - there was a 
factual error.  It was only by her checking the balance that she realised this and had to sort 
this out herself.  She wanted what had been  offered to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether Ms V is in the position she ought to have been in taking into 
account what has happened. She has clearly paid more to the mortgage than she should  
have done. Virgin said that if shed fixed the mortgage interest rate in 2015 similar to the way 
she later did in 2018 then shed have  been able to pay a lower interest rate. 
So one element of the settlement offered  to her was the refund of the extra  interest that she 
neednt have paid.  Because  of the way mortgage  payments  are calculated shed also repaid 
more of the capital than she would  have done. Those payments had already  come out of her 
bank account  and been credited to the mortgage.  They amounted to £1.5178.14 over the 
period. To put her in the position  she would have been in they needed to be refunded to her. 
And as she didnt have  the money over the period Virgin  also paid her simple  interest  of 
eight per cent per annum.
Ref: DRN33399332Virgin accepts that it did not describe the credit to her bank account as a refund. So Ms V did 
not expect that this would  result in her mortgage balance being  increased. I agree that this 
was not clear to her either  in a telephone  call or in the final response.  And I also understand 
that had she been told the correct position  she says she would not have agreed to the offer 
that was made.
Ive seen the basis for these calculations from Virgin and Im satisfied that they put Ms V in 
the position she ought to have been  in. She has been compensated for her financial loss. So 
I dont have a basis to say that the refund of £1,578.14  should  have been made to her 
without increasing  the mortgage balance.
I appreciate Ms V does not think shes had the benefit of this money or that Virgin has stuck  
to the terms of its offer to her. But Im afraid  she fairly has two options. Either  the 
overpayments to the mortgage she made go back to the mortgage  this means the 
mortgage has been paid off faster and shell  have  less to pay in future  than she would have 
done. Or she has those overpayments back, as she did originally,  and then will make future 
payments to the mortgage in line with her agreement. And whichever option  she chooses 
shes still being compensated for not having that money in her bank account  when she 
could have done  thats the eight per cent simple  interest.
I also need to consider  compensation for distress  and inconvenience. Virgin  has already 
paid her £250 for not allowing her to have a lower interest  rate from 2015. It has now offered 
her £150  more for not explaining  its offer correctly. Ive taken into account  everything thats 
happened and Ms Vs clear distress and I consider  this to be reasonable. I appreciate shell  
remain disappointed  by my assessment of her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Virgin Money plc need do 
no more than its offered  to do and which is now to pay Ms V a further £150 and give her the 
option of returning the payment  of £1,578.14 to her mortgage backdated to the date when it 
was withdrawn.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3339933