K822xcomplaint
Mrs W and Mr W on behalf of The Redhill Lacrosse  Club complain about how HSBC UK 
Bank Plc has dealt  with the reopening of the clubs account.
background 
Mrs W says she held a meeting with HSBC  in March 2018 about reopening the clubs 
account. She says that HSBC delayed matters  and in October 2018 after a number of 
problems decided to close the account. Mrs W says the cheque for the amount in the 
account was sent to a wrong address and the replacement cheque was returned as it was 
suspected of being suspicious  or counterfeit. In summary  Mrs W says HSBC has dealt badly 
with her and it took 11 months to return the clubs money. She says HSBC  ignored e-mails 
and that she spent a significant  amount of time dealing with these issues.
HSBC accepts there was a delay in communicating with Mrs W and accepts the cheque was 
sent to the wrong address. Its apologised and offered the club £200 compensation.
Mrs W had already brought  the clubs complaint to us. And our investigator accepted HSBC 
had dealt badly  with it. But the investigator  thought HSBCs offer of compensation was fair 
and reasonable.
Mrs W doesnt accept that view and says the compensation offer doesnt go far enough. She 
says shes spent a great  deal of time and effort trying to resolve matters and traveling to 
HSBC. She also says shes been  caused stress and that HSBC hasnt apologised for the 
cheque that was returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons.
There is no question here that HSBC  has made a series of mistakes in dealing  with what  
should have been a simple issue. I dont need to repeat all of the mistakes  it made  but I 
accept it took far too long to set up the banking facilities in 2018. And that it then sent the 
cheque to the wrong address. I have  no doubt that HSBC was responsible for the 
replacement cheque then being returned to Mrs W and cant  see that there can be any other  
explanation other than it had been linked to the missing first cheque.
So I have  no doubt Mrs W spent some  time on behalf of the club trying  to sort out these 
problems and I have  no doubt she was caused  stress and frustration in those circumstances. 
But I should explain to Mrs W that the complainant here is the club and not her. And so I 
must consider the impact  on the club. Having done  so Ive come to the overall view that 
HSBCs offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN35043332my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation of £200. Mrs W and Mr Ws acceptance of that offer on behalf of The Redhill 
Lacrosse Club would be in full and final settlement  of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3504333