K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Unum  Ltd has refused to pay proportionate benefit under a group 
income protection policy.
background
Mr B previously had a claim accepted by Unum  when he wasnt able to work  because of a 
mental health illness. In December  2015, he returned to work on a phased  basis.  He 
increased his working hours until he was working four and a half days a week towards the 
end of 2016. Unum  stopped paying benefit as of the end of January 2017. 
Initially, Mr B wanted Unum to pay proportionate benefit to recognise that he was only 
working four and a half days a week. Unum refused to do so as it thought that Mr Bs 
decision to have half a day off a week was elective  rather  than clinical.
It seems  that at some point during 2017, Mr B returned to full-time  hours.  Then in November 
2017, Mr Bs employer downgraded his job grade, which reduced his salary.  
Mr B wanted  Unum to pay proportionate  benefit  from this date, as he said the reduction to 
his salary was a result of his performance being impaired by his medication (which couldnt  
be changed). Unum didnt  think thered been any deterioration  in Mr Bs symptoms or a new 
condition that meant  he was incapacitated which would allow proportionate benefit to be 
paid. Mr B therefore brought a complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2019. My findings were:
The policy  says the following in respect of proportionate benefit:
Benefit may be paid in respect  of a member who, although incapacitated, is still 
able to work either on a reduced  basis in his normal occupation for a reduced  level of 
earnings, and does so, or adopts a different and less well paid occupation.  
The policy defines  incapacitated  as:
the member is unable,  by reason  of his illness or injury,  to perform the material 
and substantial duties  of his insured occupation
Mr B says that after he returned to work,  it became more apparent as time went on that he 
wasnt able to function to the same degree  as hed been able to before  his illness, and not to 
the standards required for his role. He says that he cant undertake  the same volume of work  
that he used to do prior to his illness and cant focus  for long periods, which  impacts  his 
performance at work. Consequently, in November  2017, he was put on a lower grade and 
his employer reduced his salary  by £5,000.
Ive looked at the medical evidence throughout 2017.
In January 2017, Mr Bs symptoms were  well controlled. However,  it was noted he was still 
feeling quite wiped out in the morning with lethargy  and reduced memory  capacity.  And that 
he had to work harder  to achieve the same results as others. 
Ref: DRN38753842In March 2017, Mr B remained stable  in his mental state, and was noted to be enjoying  work 
and had good support at work. It was recorded  that he was less drowsy  in the morning. 
In October  2017, Dr E, a speciality doctor  to a consultant psychiatrist,  said that Mr B was on 
strong medication which usually causes drowsiness and sedation during  the day. He said 
Mr B reported some  slight memory problem and that the impact  of Mr Bs treatment was 
likely to affect his usual performance  at work.  
In January 2018 (which was after Mr Bs grade had been changed), Dr P, a speciality doctor 
to a consultant  psychiatrist, said Mr Bs illness was being managed  with antipsychotic 
medication, and that this would aggravate Mr Bs reduced attention  and ability to 
concentrate. Dr P said these impairments were a consequence of his mental  disorder and its 
treatment. 
Ive also considered the information provided  by Mr Bs employer. 
Mr Bs employer  said that whilst he had been able to return to full-time work and had made 
good progress  relative to where he started from on his return  to work, his ability to perform 
the full range of his role and responsibilities has not kept pace at the same rate and, 
regrettably, he was not able to resume the required level of performance  to fulfil his role and 
it was this that resulted in the adjustment to his job scale and salary. We had evidence prior 
to his illness/long-term sickness absence that he had been performing to standard having 
gained a promotion and getting satisfactory ratings  in his appraisals.
Based on the above evidence, I dont think Mr B has shown that hes unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation, as required by the terms of the policy.  
Having said that, I think his claim for proportionate  benefit should still be accepted, but on a 
fair and reasonable basis. Ill explain why.
Mr B was off work for some  time with his mental health illness. He then recovered sufficiently 
(with the help of strong medication) to be able to return  to work, and built up his hours until 
he was working full-time. Despite this, it seems his performance at work has suffered. Whilst 
we dont know the exact details of this, his employer has confirmed that theres been a 
change to his performance levels since returning  to work in comparison to his performance  
prior to his illness. 
I appreciate there hasnt  been a deterioration  in Mr Bs symptoms since  returning to work 
that would  render him incapacitated from his role. But its apparently accepted  by his doctors 
that his medication  affects his attention and ability to concentrate. I see that Mr Bs job role 
requires communication,  problem solving and presentation of complex information. Although 
hes been able to go back to work, the evidence from his employer supports that he hasnt 
been able to perform  at the same level that he was performing at previously. I dont think  
Mr B should  be financially  disadvantaged  as a result of the impairments he experiences  from 
his medication, when hes made every effort to return to work, which is the desired outcome 
for all the parties.  
That being  the case, I think it would  be fair in this case, for Unum to accept Mr Bs claim for 
proportionate benefit from the date his job grade was downgraded.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Mr B didnt have any further comments to make.
Ref: DRN38753843Unum responded  to say that to qualify for proportionate benefit,  Mr B needs  to be an 
incapacitated member. Since Ive accepted that Mr B could perform his occupation, it thinks  
proportionate benefit shouldnt be paid as he isnt an incapacitated member.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Unum makes the point  that Mr B isnt an incapacitated member, therefore it thinks  
proportionate benefit shouldnt be paid.  
I said in my provisional decision that I dont think Mr B has shown hes unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation. I therefore accept that he isnt an 
incapacitated member under the policy. However,  Ive also explained that despite this, I 
think proportionate benefit should be paid on a fair and reasonable basis. My reasons for this 
are clearly  set out in my provisional decision.  
Unum hasnt provided any further  comments to change my reasoning  for concluding  that 
proportionate benefit should  be paid on a fair and reasonable basis. I therefore see no 
reason to alter my provisional conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to accept Mr Bs claim 
and pay proportionate benefit in accordance  with the policys remaining  terms and conditions  
from the date Mr Bs job grade was downgraded. 
Interest should  be added  to the backdated payments at the annual  simple rate of 8%, 
calculated from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement.* 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3875384