K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr B lives with his wife and school-  age daughter. For many years  he has had British Gas 
insurance for his central heating. Where I refer to British  Gas I refer to the insurance  
company of that name and I include  engineers and others for whose actions I hold that 
company responsible.
The policy included an annual boiler service. In 2016 and on 16 January 2018 British  Gas 
did annual  service visits. On about 2 March 2018 (during cold weather) Mr Ds boiler broke  
down. This left his family with no central  heating or hot water.  He contacted  British  Gas for 
help but the earliest available engineers appointment shown online was about  9 March. 
So Mr B got a local engineer to look at his boiler. He got a quote  for the parts  necessary to 
repair it. But  instead of a repair - Mr B paid £2,200.00 for the installation of a new boiler.
Mr B complained that British Gas hadnt done  the annual  services properly and hadnt 
helped him in an emergency. He said it should contribute  to the cost of his new boiler.
In a final response letter in July 2018, British Gas said it would refund Mr B what  he had paid 
in 2018 and would also pay £30.00 in compensation for delay in responding to his complaint 
 a total of £176.58.
our investigators opinion
At first our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think that the insurer hadnt taken  adequate  steps  to service the boiler. She didnt think it 
would be fair to ask British Gas to reimburse the cost of the boiler replacement or the costs  
for the parts that wouldve  been  covered by the policy. She thought that the resolution British  
Gas had provided was fair and reasonable 
The investigator changed her view after Mr B provided a quotation for the costs of the parts 
that wouldve  been necessary to repair the boiler.  The investigator recommended that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that Mr Bs policy wouldve covered him for the 
cost of these parts.  She recommended  that British Gas should reimburse Mr B for this cost.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to British  Gas on 22 August 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Mr B was faced with an unreasonable wait for a British Gas engineer - so he 
engaged his own engineer.
That engineer got a quotation for parts  to repair the boiler. That was for a total of 
£1,643.71 (most  of it for a new heat exchanger). But it didnt include labour to install  
the parts. No doubt there  was a discussion between Mr B and his engineer.  And Mr B 
opted for the installation of a new boiler  at a cost of £2,200.00.
Ref: DRN32937812I found it likely that British Gas couldve got the spare parts for less than £1,643.71. 
But I found it likely that there wouldve been  substantial labour costs.  I found it likely 
that it couldve installed a new boiler  for less cost to it than £2,200.00. 
I found it likely that  as Mr B and his engineer did - British Gas wouldve concluded  
that it was more economic to replace the boiler.  
But I accepted  Mr Bs statement that he couldnt  get through to British Gas on the 
phone and the first available  appointment  online  was for about 9 March.  I didnt think 
he could have confidence that British  Gas was going to repair  or replace his boiler  on 
that day.
So I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse  Mr B 
the £2,200.00 he ended  up paying  for the installation of a new boiler.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr B:
1.£2,200.00  in reimbursement of the cost of installing  the new boiler;  and
2.simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 9 March  2018 to the date 
of reimbursement.  If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr B how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr B says his engineer  is willing to provide 
information to us.
British Gas hasnt  provided any further information  or comments in response  to the 
provisional decision.
Therefore I see no reason  to change my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
events before 2017
Mr Bs policy  renewal  date was about  27 November each year.
From what  Mr B has said and from the British  Gas work history, I think  Mr B replaced his 
boiler in 2012.
The work history shows annual service visits in April 2015, January 2016 and 21 November 
2016.
policy terms
Ref: DRN32937813As regards  the annual  service, the British  Gas policy terms have  (since  at least October  
2015) included the following:
Annual service
One of our engineers will visit your home  once  a year to check that your appliance, 
boiler or central heating and ventilation is working  safely and in line with the relevant 
laws and regulations.  Well  also test the gases  your appliance or boiler produces.  If 
these tests show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart  to adjust or 
clean it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows  you exactly what weve 
looked at. If we find a problem  or fault that needs  to be fixed,  well tell you about  it.
So  although an annual  service is important  it is a safety  check  and an emissions test. I 
dont think British Gas has to take the boiler apart  to clean it unless the test shows  a 
problem. I dont think an annual service is any guarantee that a boiler wont break down a 
few weeks later.
The policy covered spare  parts and labour for repairs. Alternatively the policy terms 
(September 2017 edition) covered the following:
A replacement for your boiler  if we cant repair it and:
 Its less than seven years old
 Or, its between  seven and ten years old, we installed  it and its been  continuously  
covered by British  Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare agreement
The policy terms (September  2017  edition) also included  the following:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled  to within  a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
The policy terms (September  2017  edition) also included  the following:
We wont  offer you cash instead of carrying out an annual  service, repairs or 
replacements.
events from 2017
After the annual service  visit in November 2016,  there was no annual service  visit in 2017. 
Nearly fourteen  months had passed  when British Gas did the service on 16 January 2018. 
But an annual service  visit required cooperation between Mr B and British Gas to make a 
mutually convenient appointment. And he didnt complain at that time. So I cant say that 
British Gas was at fault for not doing  the visit a couple of months sooner.
Ive seen a couple of photographs (from March 2018) that show  corrosion inside the heat 
exchanger. And Mr B has quoted his engineer as saying that his boiler  hadnt  been serviced 
for some time. But I havent seen anything in writing from that engineer. 
And British  Gas has provided some test results  (from January 2018) that it says were  within  
the expected range.  So I cant say British  Gas shouldve taken the boiler  apart to clean the 
Ref: DRN32937814heat exchanger. And Im not persuaded that the British  Gas annual service  in January 2018 
fell below a reasonable  standard. 
In March 2018, the cold weather increased  the urgency  of boiler  repairs. I think Mr B was 
faced with an unreasonable  wait for a British Gas engineer- so he engaged his own 
engineer.
That engineer got a quotation for parts  to repair the boiler. That was for a total of £1,643.71 
(most of it for a new heat exchanger). But it didnt include labour to install  the parts.  No doubt 
there was a discussion between Mr B and his engineer. And Mr B opted for the installation  of 
a new boiler at a cost of £2,200.00.
I find it likely  that British  Gas couldve got the spare  parts for less than £1,643.71. But I find it 
likely that there wouldve  been substantial labour costs. I find it likely that it couldve installed 
a new boiler for less cost to it than £2,200.00. 
Mr Bs boiler was less than seven years old. So I find it likely that  as Mr B and his engineer  
did - British Gas wouldve  concluded that it was more economic to replace the boiler.  
But I accept Mr Bs statement that he couldnt get through to British  Gas on the phone  and 
the first available appointment online was for about 9 March.  I dont  think he could have 
confidence that British Gas was going to repair or replace his boiler on that day.
So Im minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse Mr B the 
£2,200.00 he ended  up paying for the installation  of a new boiler. That wouldnt be as a cash 
settlement in lieu of repair under the policy. Rather it would be compensation directed by the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  for the shortcomings of British  Gas in dealing  with Mr Bs 
claim and complaint.
Ive thought about directing British  Gas to pay Mr B compensation for the fact that its 
shortcomings no doubt caused  him distress and inconvenience. But I think  much of that 
distress and inconvenience was to do with being  out of pocket  since about 9 March 2018. So 
I find it fair enough to direct British Gas to add interest at our usual  rate.
As he will have been  compensated  for the benefits due under the policy I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to refund any of Mr Bs payments of premium. British  Gas 
sent Mr B a cheque for £176.58  but he told us he hadnt paid it in. If he did later pay it in then 
I will allow  British  Gas to deduct  that amount from what it pays him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:
1£2,200.00  in reimbursement of the cost of installing  the new boiler;  and
2simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 9 March  2018 to the date 
of reimbursement.  If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr B how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN32937815Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3293781