K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the broker Tesco Personal Finance PLCs  decision to 
backdate an increase in premium when she reported an incident under their home insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance  policy was due for renewal on 30 September 2018. On the 
same day Mr and Mrs P returned from holiday and noticed a crack on a wall had got worse 
in their property. On 4 October 2018  Mrs P reported  the damage and Tesco arranged for a 
surveyor to carry out an inspection. This took place in November 2018. 
On 4 October 2018 Tesco issued updated policy documents to Mr and Mrs P because it had 
added the open claim,  backdating  it to August  2018. Tesco said this was the time when 
Mrs P said she first noticed a crack in the wall. So Tesco had recalculated  the renewal 
premium. It was more than Mr and Mrs P were  paying in monthly instalments because of the 
open claim.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Tesco. They didnt think it was fair that it had increased their 
premium before the damage had been  inspected. Mrs P said the damage wasnt there when 
they went on holiday at the beginning of September 2018. So she doesnt agree with 
Tescos decision to open a claim from August 2018.  She was also unhappy that the revised 
policy documents showed the renewal date had changed from 30 September  2018  to 4 
October 2018. 
Tesco increased the premium on the basis of a subsidence claim. But its told us that since  
the inspection  was carried out, it reduced the premium to reflect the correct category of the 
damage reported. 
Our investigator thought Tesco could have better explained why it issued new policy  
documents and why it increased the premium. But she didnt recommend their complaint 
should be upheld.  She thought it had correctly backdated the incident  to before the renewal 
date.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy with Tesco  says that they should report any incident that may cause a 
claim even  if they arent making a claim  and that a change could result in an increase in 
premium. This isnt an unusual term as Ive seen it in most standard  insurance  policies. 
I understand Mrs P feels Tesco shouldnt  have backdated the incident. But even though she 
reported the incident on 4 October 2018, the damage occurred a few weeks  earlier. So the 
date of the damage  and this is the date an insurer uses when recording an incident   was 
therefore before the renewal date of 30 September 2018. 
Ref: DRN30053952Tesco was entitled  to recalculate the premium taking into account  the open  claim  which it 
initially priced as a subsidence claim. The revised renewal documents  correctly show  a start 
date of cover  as 4 October 2018   as the information had changed since  the documents it 
issued on 30 September 2018. But I can see from the revised renewal  documents that the 
renewal date remained at 30 September 2019  for the following year. 
So while I agree that Tesco could have  better  explained its decision, I dont think  its decision 
was wrong. I think it correctly backdated  the claim to the date of damage as discussed  with 
Mrs P - which was before the renewal  date of 30 September  2018.  
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed. But I think Tesco  acted reasonably and in 
line with the policy.  So Im not asking  it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3005395