K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2001 Mrs R applied  to Halifax for a secured loan. She also took out PPI to protect the loan 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Briefly, Mrs R says shes  certain  that she refused to take out PPI. 
Whilst investigating this complaint,  the adjudicator recommended that Halifax  should  pay 
Mrs R some compensation in respect of a separate issue. I understand thats  been  agreed 
and settled by Halifax sending Mrs R an agreed  amount. So Im just concentrating on her 
complaint about  the mis-sale of PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs R to remember precisely what  was discussed at the 
time as this sale took place so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough  on its 
own for me to be able to uphold this mis-sale complaint. I have to look at everything and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
I think Halifax made Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to have it. 
I say this because  the application Mrs R filled in to get the loan set out yes and no options 
for PPI. So she wouldve  been able to say if the PPI was something she hadnt wanted at the 
time. Mrs R signed in the yes box to say she wanted PPI. 
And the loan agreement  Mrs R signed  showed the cost of the PPI it said shed asked for 
when she filled in the application form. So Mrs R wouldve been able to see this information.  
And if the PPI hadnt been something  that Mrs R wanted, or shed changed her mind  about 
having it, I think its likely that she wouldve queried  this with Halifax  at the time. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that happened.  Mrs R signed the completed form confirming that she 
agreed with the information on it. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed when the loan and the PPI were arranged. But, 
I find the way that information about the PPI is set out in the loan paperwork shows that PPI 
was optional and it was added to her account  at her request when Mrs R chose to have it.  
Halifax says it advised Mrs R to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mrs Rs situation at the time. 
Mrs R was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
Ref: DRN36043402PPI wouldve  covered the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months  if Mrs R lost her job. 
And it wouldve paid out for up to 60 months  per claim if shed been unable  to work as a 
result of accident or sickness.  So she couldve  relied  on the policy  for a lot longer than she 
couldve depended on getting sick pay through work. And repeat claims were possible giving 
Mrs R long term protection for her loan. So I think that PPI wouldve  given  Mrs R significantly 
better cover than if shed  just been  relying on her employer. 
It doesnt look like Mrs R had any significant other  means to cover her monthly  repayments  if 
she wasnt working. The policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit for a lot longer than 
Mrs Rs savings or other insurance  wouldve lasted if shed  had to rely on these if she wasnt 
working. So I think this insurance couldve been  of value to Mrs R and it was suitable for her.
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost Mrs R each month,  as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment,  and the total monthly payment shed have to make.  So 
I think at the time Mrs R wouldve been  aware  shed be paying for the insurance and how 
much this would  cost each month  even if shes forgotten this now. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the policy when she couldve declined  it - so she 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover and the policy seems to have  been affordable. I think it unlikely  Mrs R 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think Mrs R would still have taken out the policy.
This means  I dont  find that Mrs R has lost out as a result of anything Halifax  did wrong. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  Mrs Rs comments, including what  shes 
said about the way another claim shes made was dealt with. But I am concerned  here just 
with her complaint  about the PPI sold with this loan. So this doesnt change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3604340