K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
during a telephone call in 2004. Mrs H says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Barclays shouldve made Mrs H aware the PPI was optional. 
Barclays has explained that the policy was added to Mrs Hs card during a telephone  call 
shortly after she applied  for her credit  card. There is limited information available from the 
time this policy was sold, but from what I have seen, and knowing that this policy was added 
to the card after it was applied  for, I dont have  enough to say Barclays didnt make it clear 
the policy was optional, or that Mrs H didnt choose to have it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs H. If this is the case  it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. For example  she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.
Mrs H says she got six months full and six months half sick pay benefits from her employer.  
The PPI wouldve paid out alongside  these benefits  as well as covering  her if she became 
unemployed. Mrs H says she didnt have any other means  such as savings  to make her 
repayments so she seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs H has missed  out from anything Barclays  might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Ref: DRN38810742Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3881074