K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs V dispute charges applied by Infinox Capital Limited (Infinox) to their 
Contracts for Differences (CFD) accounts.  Mr D leads the complaint.
background
The charges  arise from CFD index  trades  from February 2018 onwards. Infinox sought  to 
apply them around October 2018.  In the main, Infinox says:
The accounts were  opened in May 2017 and July 2018.
The charges  were/are  outstanding dividend charges  due to swap charges 
applied to [Infinox]  by [its] liquidity providers for dividends on contracts for difference 
(CFD) index trades  
Section 13.2.1  of its Client  Agreement (CA) allows it to recover  from account holders 
losses it incurs   as a result  of action taken by a liquidity provider; section 6.1 of 
the CA says it can deduct such charges from funds  held in an account;  section  7.1 of 
the CA says it can off-set  such  deductions;  and section 18.4.1  provides that it can 
hold joint account holders jointly and severally liable for obligations under the CA.
The dividend adjustments in the CFD trades are to reflect  the dividend payments  
within the relevant  underlying index and to ensure that such trades do not unfairly 
profit or lose from the price movements  that result from such corporate actions. In Mr 
Ds and Mrs Vs case, its Liquidity Provider (LP) notified it about  the adjustments  to 
their trades after their trades were closed. 
The adjustments were  legitimately  applicable before the trades were closed; they 
could have applied  at the time but did not; the timings  and manner of the closures  
which suggest prohibited arbitrage  trading  by Mr D (based  on his awareness that 
adjustments were  not being applied)  had something to do with preventing  their 
applications; and, in any case,  just because the adjustments  were  not applied  when 
they could have been applied does not detract  from the fact that they are legitimate 
charges owed by Mr D and Mrs V, under the terms it has cited, to Infinox. 
Mr D disagrees  with Infinoxs position.  In the main, his and Mrs Vs joint position  can be 
summarised as follows:
Neither Infinoxs CA nor its Best Execution Policy (BEP)  mentions dividends (or 
adjustments/deductions in this respect) so it does not have a history of having  made  
such adjustments  that is, credits for long positions and debits for short  positions  
(like theirs). Such  adjustments are not mandatory in CFD trading, each broker  sets its 
specifications and terms for CFD trading  including in relation to such  adjustments. 
He has submitted evidence that shows how some other  brokers do not apply 
dividend related adjustments for index based  trades and evidence from an external 
European jurisdiction  (and ombudsman service) which  supports  his overall argument. 
The adjustments and deductions  cannot fairly be made  without a fair contractual  
basis to do so.
The BEP says  The aggregate value of all fees, costs  and any commission  
payments are incorporated into the prices we offer on the trading platform , so no 
additional costs  ought to arise  in connection  to their trades.
Infinox has not given a valid reason for the delay in applying  the disputed  charges. 
The inference that should be drawn from this  and from Infinox  wilfully  not applying  
the charges at the relevant times despite  opportunities  to do so  is that they were  
(and remain) inapplicable.
Ref: DRN30220012They dispute Infinoxs  suggestion that the timings of the closures of their positions 
had something to do with the matter. It did not, they committed  no wrongdoing in the 
closure of their positions and Infinox has not established that they did.
Section 13.2.1  is unfair because it may be vaguely interpreted  to mean Infinox can 
charge whatever it likes; the LP should be able to manage its own risks/exposures; 
section 10 of the CA says all costs and charges had been  disclosed, but the 
possibility of a dividend related adjustment had not; section 6.1 allows  the deduction 
of agreed charges  but they have not agreed to the charges Infinox applied to their 
accounts; and Infinoxs Annual  Execution Summary for 2018  features statements that 
include confirmation that real-time monitoring was applied to its prices and 
connections to LPs and that during 2018   there were  no charges in liquidity 
providers based on best execution not being achieved for our clients .
MiFID II requirements  demanded/demand that charges applicable to their accounts  
were/are transparent, the notion  of a dividend related adjustment was/is  not.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she said:
The practice of applying dividend adjustments to CFD positions was/is  broadly 
inherent in CFD trading and the reasons for them  to reflect  dividend  events in the 
market underlying a CFD and to avoid such events causing  unfair advantages and 
disadvantages in CFD positions  are broadly known and well founded.
It is not necessary  to comment  on or to determine Infinoxs suspicions about the 
timing of positions closed in the account, it is only necessary  to determine whether  
(or not) the dividend  adjustments were legitimate and fair.
The dividend adjustments were legitimate and fair, based on their sector wide 
application and based on the fair application of Infinoxs terms. Mr Ds point about 
Infinoxs delay in applying the adjustments is noted and Infinox should have made 
the potential adjustments clearer to Mr D and Mrs V, but ultimately  the charges are 
applicable and owed to Infinox.
This service is not bound by ombudsman services in other jurisdictions and Infinox 
was/is not bound by practices  of other firms.
Mr D did not accept this outcome  and the matter  was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept (with some  qualifications) Mr Ds arguments in the following respects:
I have considered the CA documents from 2016, 2018 and 2019.  The last (2019) is 
inapplicable as it was produced after the complaint  event. The first two are relevant 
to the complaint and, as Mr D says, neither makes explicit  provisions for dividend  
adjustments to CFD positions. He is also correct  in saying the BEP does not make  
such provisions and the BEP statement quoted above  does exist.  However,  as I 
address below, there appears to have  been  a sufficient contractual basis for the 
dividend adjustments.
Some of the other CFD brokerage/trading firms in the sector  as illustrated in the 
evidence Mr D submitted  do not apply dividend adjustments to CFD positions in 
their accounts. However, I do not consider this point (or evidence) binding  on Infinox. 
Ref: DRN30220013It appears that Mr D has made  this point to show that such  adjustments are not 
mandatory and that they depend  on each brokers trading  terms, and I understand 
this point. However, it is also fair to note that many CFD trading firms/brokers do 
apply the adjustments; that they are as common  as the investigator described; and, I 
repeat, that evidence  about firms not applying dividend  adjustments neither binds 
Infinox nor does such evidence determine  that Infinox should not have applied them. 
I should also note that, as the investigator  said, this service is not bound by views  of 
ombudsman services in other jurisdictions.
There is indeed a notable delay between when the relevant trades  were  closed and 
when Infinox sought to apply the dividend adjustments. However, for reasons I 
address below, I do not consider  this to be as relevant as Mr D has argued.
There is a lack of evidence to establish  Infinoxs suggestion (or allegation) that the 
times and/or manners  in which Mr Ds and Mrs Vs positions  were closed had 
something to do with the delay in applying the dividend adjustments or that they 
engaged in arbitrage trading in this respect.
Mr D and Mrs V were  entitled to disclosure  of all costs and charges associated with 
their accounts  Mr Ds reference to MiFID  II in this respect  is correct   and they 
were bound only by the costs and charges they agreed. However, overall,  on balance 
and as I address  below, I do not consider that Infinox has sought to apply charges 
they did not agree to.
The matter  to determine is the legitimacy (or otherwise) of the dividend adjustments  applied 
by Infinox to Mr Ds and Mrs Vs trades.  In this respect, I do not accept that the timing of their 
applications is relevant. If the adjustment related charges are legitimately  owed to Infinox, 
and in the absence of evidence of its express or implicit  waiver  of such  charges, it would 
retain the right to recover them   even if it has done so months  later than it should  have. 
I have not seen evidence of an express  waiver and I am not persuaded that the delay, in 
isolation, amounted  to an implicit  waiver. I understand Mr Ds argument that it should be 
inferred from the delay that the adjustments were inapplicable  and if the adjustments  were  
applicable and legitimate,  this argument  could be extended to say the delay showed that 
Infinox implicitly  waived  application of the adjustments. However, on balance,  I do not 
consider there is enough evidence to safely conclude either was the case. Below, I address 
the matter of whether (or not) the adjustments were  applicable. In terms of the notion that 
the adjustments were implicitly waived, this appears unlikely given that  as I also address 
below  there was a contractual basis to apply them in order  to pass  on charges incurred by 
Infinox.
The dividend adjustments had a contractual basis that was binding on Mr D and Mrs V. As 
stated above,  the relevant CAs did not make  explicit provisions for them. I agree with the 
investigators view that Infinox should  have  made  such  provisions (and should have made 
the dividend adjustments clearer). It would appear that Infinox identified this omission after 
the 2018 version of the CA, because the 2019  version of the CA contains  explicit  provisions 
for dividend  adjustments to CFD positions.  Nevertheless, the 2016  version  of the CA (at 
paragraph 5.2) and the 2018 version of the CA (at paragraph 12.2) contain, in the same  
expression, the following term  
Market Liquidity  Provider and Market  action. If a Market or Liquidity Provider   takes 
any action which we determine affects  or may affect  a Transaction, then we may take action 
which we, in our sole discretion consider  desirable  to correspond with such action or to 
mitigate any loss incurred as a result of such action. Any such action taken by us will be 
binding on you.
Ref: DRN30220014I quoted above Infinoxs  explanation of the charges. I note that its reference to swap 
charges has been highlighted by Mr D. I understand why and I consider that this reference 
has been unhelpful  given that the charges have been related to dividend adjustments  as 
opposed to financing for the CFD positions  (which is what  swap  charges usually apply for). 
Nevertheless, Infinoxs explanation  is sufficiently  based on the matter of dividend  
adjustments. I am not persuaded  that its reference  to swap charges undermines  this.
Infinox was passing on to Mr Ds and Mrs Vs accounts the dividend adjustments it faced  
from the market dividend events and from its LP(s) in relation to their CFD positions.  The 
term above allowed  it to do so and it was a term agreed by Mr D and Mrs V in the relevant 
CA(s), so this created the contractual basis upon  which market related  or LP related 
adjustments were  applicable to their positions.  Infinox has shared spreadsheet evidence 
about the relevant positions  and about  the dividend adjustments that were incurred on them  
and passed on to Mr D and Mrs V. I have  not seen evidence directly  from the relevant LP(s)  
in this respect but, on balance, I consider the spreadsheet evidence to be reliable.
Explicit provisions about dividend adjustments (and defining such adjustments by name  and 
by description, as in the 2019  version of the CA) would have been more  meaningful  than the 
term quoted above. However,  the effect of the term quoted above was that account holders 
were given sufficient prior notice of, and agreed  to, the possibility or risk that market  or LP 
adjustments faced  by Infinox with regards to their CFD positions  could be passed unto them. 
The dividend adjustments that are in dispute fell into this category and, as the investigator  
explained, they are common   and, I consider, foreseeable   adjustments  in CFD trading. In 
addition, they have the effect of avoiding unfair profits or losses being  made  in relation to 
underlying market price  movements resulting  from dividend events.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds and Mrs Vs complaint. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs V to accept or reject 
my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3022001