K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) mis-sold him a credit  
card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out the PPI in August 1998 at the same time as arranging the credit card. Mr G 
cant remember what the sales process  was and Nat West hasnt been able to confirm how it 
was sold either.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Nat West no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which is not surprising  given how long 
ago the sale took place.  But it does  make the complaint  more  difficult to consider. In 
reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence that we do have and what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
As Ive mentioned,  Mr G says he cant remember how the PPI was sold to him. But hes also 
said that at no point was it made clear to him that the policy was optional.  These  two 
statements are slightly at odds with each other. Overall Im not persuaded that Mr G has any 
recollection of the sale, which is also not surprising.
From what  we know of Nat Wests sales processes at the time, I think  it is more  likely that 
the policy was presented  as optional. It seems to me that Mr G probably decided  to take out 
the PPI, knowing  that he didnt  have  to, even if he no longer  remembers doing so.
Nat West didnt advise  Mr G to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide  Mr G with enough  information for him to make an informed choice 
about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Gs employer would have given  him six months full pay, followed by six months  half pay, 
if he had been  unable to work due to illness. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
this and potentially  for longer than he would  have received full pay for. Mr G has told us that 
he would  have had some savings at the time. But the policy would have allowed him to 
retain these  or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult  time. 
Hes also said that his partner would help. But other people  cant  always be relied upon as 
their circumstances can change. Overall  I think that Mr G had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted  from it.
Its possible that Nat West  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of 
Ref: DRN37620692those things. As I think that Mr G had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind.
Whiich means  Nat West doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Nat West has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nat West expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. 
Because Nat West didnt  tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nat West has offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
made this payment to Mr G, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3762069