K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed  to inform her of internet and text banking 
facilities that would have prevented her making  regular  visits to branch, when it knew she 
was disabled and found the visits difficult.  She wants increased compensation. 
background 
Ms D says that for some  years  she had visited a Lloyds branch each month to be sure she 
had enough money in her account  to pay her bills. She normally  dealt with the branch 
manager. She has a physical  disability that made these visits difficult.
When shed visited the branch in November 2017  a counter staff member asked her if shed 
thought about getting internet  banking. The staff member helped her to set it up with a 
password shed remember. 
In February 2018  she spoke to the branch manager about why she wasnt  told sooner about  
internet and text banking.  The manager  said she was told. She doesnt  think  she was. She 
thought that since the manager is aware  that she also suffers from memory loss, he was 
taking advantage of that to say shed been told, when she hadnt.
In early February 2018 Ms D complained to the bank. Her daughter, Ms B, also did so on her 
behalf. Ms B said that after her mother had made a complaint the branch manager had 
called Ms D and made inappropriate  queries  and comments given her memory loss. 
Lloyds said it wasnt appropriate  that the branch  manager had questioned  her in the way he 
had about her complaint. But it explained that the branch  manager  had been trying to identify  
the staff member she had dealt with. It said it would put £50 into Ms Ds account  for this poor 
customer service.  It said that the bank  did offer telephone and online banking as an 
alternative to visiting the branch. But the branch  manager had advised  that it may not be a 
safe way to manage her accounts  given  the information shed provided (presumably about 
her memory loss).
Ms D complained to us. She thought she should  have been given more  assistance about 
ways of managing  her account sooner. She says that if she had been given the information 
when she enquired about alternative ways of managing her account, she wouldnt have had 
to visit the branch. She didnt  think the £50 compensation was enough. 
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  should have done more to assist Ms D so that she didnt  
have to make the visits to the branch each month. She thought  Lloyds should  pay Ms D 
£250 compensation.
Ms Ds daughter replied  to our investigators view. She said her mother was severely 
disabled and Lloyds  had breached the Equality Act. It also didnt comply with its own 
policies. She wanted Lloyds  to be fined and her mother paid more  compensation.  A little 
later Ms D gave us permission to deal with her daughter about the complaint. 
Our investigator asked  Lloyds when it became aware of Ms Ds conditions. It said it first 
became aware  on 12 February 2018 when  it received an email  from her daughter. But Ms 
Ds daughter said her mother walked with the aid of a stick, which was an obvious physical 
disability. She also said she and her mother had attended a meeting at the branch in around 
mid 2014 where her mothers health  issues, including  memory loss, were discussed. She 
Ref: DRN35355242said at no time did Lloyds ask her mother to fill out a form about her difficulties or offer her 
any help. 
Lloyds also responded to the view, saying that it didnt have consent  to record  Ms Ds 
conditions and therefore staff would have  had to have been told each time she visited  the 
branch. It also said Ms D had been registered  for internet banking twice so it is reasonable to 
assume she was aware of it. Lloyds also said all customers became opted  in to text 
messaging in November 2017. But messages to Ms D had failed to be delivered. 
Ms Ds daughter said that there was no way her mother could have registered  for internet 
banking in 2010, when the bank showed a record of registration, as her health at the time 
prevented it. And her mother couldnt  recall  registering  for it in 2015  either.  
After considering the further information,  in October 2018 our investigator  gave  a further 
view on Ms Ds complaint. She said that our role wasnt to make a finding on whether Lloyds 
had breached the Equality  Act, our role was to consider whether businesses had treated 
customers in a fair and reasonable  way. 
Our investigator said she needed to consider when Lloyds became  aware  of Ms Ds 
conditions and what it did when it became  aware. She acknowledged that Ms Ds daughter  
said she and Ms D had met with Lloyds to discuss her health  issues some years  prior. But 
there was nothing in the bank contact notes  about  this. She understood Ms Ds physical 
disability was visible as she walked with a stick. But she said this doesnt  mean  all 
customers with a disability  need  or want specific support. 
She did think Lloyds  was aware  of Ms Ds health issues by October 2017. And when Ms D 
spoke to the manager at that time about ways  she could  manage her account without 
coming into the branch, more care should have been taken. Ms D was now happy with her 
internet banking. But she could have had that service sooner when she initially  stated she 
needed help. If the manager  had assessed her needs properly she wouldnt have had to 
travel to the branch for another month. So she thought £150 was now reasonable 
compensation  an additional £100 to the £50 compensation Lloyds had already paid to Ms 
D. 
Lloyds agreed  with this but Ms D didnt. She thought perhaps our service  had lowered the 
compensation because shed made a service  complaint. She didnt think  she couldve 
opened an internet account at the time Lloyds said she did, because  she wasnt well. 
The complaint then came to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Ms D and her daughter  feel 
Lloyds should  have done more to assist Ms D and they think  more  than £150 in 
compensation should be given. Thats understandable. But Im afraid Im going to have  to 
disappoint Ms D as I think £150  in total is reasonable. Ill explain why shortly. 
This case has taken longer than Id like to get to this decision,  and Im sorry for that. I asked 
the bank for more  information about  Ms Ds internet banking history and communication  
preferences (such as whether she received  paper statements or statements online) and that 
took some  time to obtain. And Id like to reassure Ms D that Ive read and considered  all the 
Ref: DRN35355243information on the file, even if I dont  refer to it. Ill only refer to the information  that I think  is 
relevant to my decision. Id also like to reassure Ms D that in considering  her complaint I 
havent taken  into account the compensation she received for a service complaint against 
us. Im also sorry we provided  her with poor service at times.  But the compensation she 
received from us isnt relevant to what, if any, compensation she should receive from Lloyds 
in relation to her complaint.
The key issue in Ms Ds complaint  against Lloyds is whether Lloyds shouldve offered 
assistance to Ms D sooner so that she didnt have to come  into branch every  month  to find 
out what her account  balance  was. This journey was difficult  for her because  of her physical 
disability. I understand  that she now has access to the banking services she wants, so Im 
looking at the past to see what  compensation,  if any, Lloyds should pay Ms D for her 
inconvenience. 
Ms D has told us that she has visible mobility issues in that she walks with a stick, and she 
has memory issues. She and her daughter think that Lloyds have breached  the Equality Act 
2010 in failing to assist  Ms D with her banking  so that she didnt have to come into branch 
every month. She shouldve been  given access to internet banking  sooner than November 
2017. 
We are an informal  dispute resolution service  so its not my role to make any finding on 
whether or not the bank  acted in breach of the Equality Act. That is the role of the courts or 
the Equality and Human Rights Commission. But in considering what  is fair and reasonable I 
have to take into account any relevant law, regulations, codes of practice  and good industry 
practice. And the Equality  Act is relevant law. 
In my view Ms D had a physical disability  that made getting to the bank more difficult. As she 
walked with a stick this would have been obvious  to bank  staff. And where  a disability is 
obvious, there is an obligation  to consider whether  any reasonable adjustments  can be 
made to enable a customer  to access services in alternative ways  so as to lessen any 
disadvantage.
Our investigator thought that just because a customer had a visible  disability, this didnt 
mean a customer needed  or wanted specific support.  But I do think  that where  a business 
can see a customer may have specific needs, it would  be good customer  service to ask if 
any assistance can be offered. And its not clear  to me that the bank did so at any time 
before November 2017. Im not convinced  that this was a breach of the Equality Act 
obligation to make reasonable adjustments, But I am satisfied that the bank couldve 
provided better customer service if it had asked before November 2017 if there  was anything 
it could do to assist  Ms D to do her banking other  than by coming into the branch.  
Ms D was registered for internet  banking from 2010  to 2012 and then from 2015 onwards, 
but didnt use it. This may mean that the branch  staff assumed she had a preference for 
visiting the branch,  as opposed to doing banking online. Not all customers  like to use online 
banking. 
Ms D says she didnt know about  internet banking, and wasnt offered it until November 
2017. The bank  says she was registered for it in 2010 and in 2015.  But Ive seen no 
evidence that Ms D herself  registered for internet banking  or that she used it before 
November 2017,  when the branch staff member helped her set it up with a password she 
could recall. It may be that Ms D was automatically enrolled for internet  banking and wasnt 
aware of this. 
Ref: DRN35355244Ive considered if the bank did provide Ms D with alternative ways of obtaining her bank 
balance other than coming  into branch.  But unfortunately Ms D was registered to receive  her 
statements online, which means she wasnt able to access them before November 2017, 
when she was assisted  with obtaining a password  she could remember.  If statements had 
been posted to Ms Ds address she wouldve been  able to access them without coming into 
branch. 
Theres no doubt that by October 2017  when  Ms D spoke to the bank manager, that the 
bank was aware that Ms D wanted assistance with her banking. I dont think  it was right of 
the branch manager to assume Ms D wouldnt have been able to use internet banking 
because of her memory issues. In fact its clear she has been able to do so since  November 
2017. So in October 2017  Lloyds offered poor customer service  to Ms D. 
I do think Lloyds couldve provided better  customer service to Ms D. I think that Lloyds 
should pay Ms D an additional £100 for her inconvenience. I understand that Ms D wants  
more compensation.  But I think £150  is fair. We cant award compensation to punish  banks. 
Its often only a modest amount. In this case, £150 is more  than a token amount and 
acknowledges that Lloyds couldve done better. Im sorry  if this disappoints Ms D. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Ms D an additional £100 in 
compensation. If it hasnt  paid Ms D the initial £50 it offered her, it must pay that also. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3535524