K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a Total Mortgage 
Protection Policy (TMPP)
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness  cover. The 
individual elements of the cover can be added or taken out depending on the consumers 
needs. 
Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs L took out a joint mortgage with Halifax for £144,395 to be repaid over a 
40-year term. At the same time they were sold a TMPP  policy.
The policy contained  the following elements:
Mr L was sold a PPI policy covering him against  being unable to work due to an accident, 
sickness or redundancy. The policy  would  have paid a monthly benefit of £729.40 for up to 
12 months if hed made a successful claim.  The annual premium  for the policy was £522.39.
Mr L was also sold a level term life assurance with a sum assured of £144,395. The annual 
premium for this was £163.80.
Mr L was also sold a level term critical illness policy with a sum assured of £144,395. The 
annual premium was £214.56.
Mrs L was sold a level term life assurance  policy with a sum assured of £144,395. The 
annual premium was £113.28.
Mrs L was also sold a level term critical illness policy with a sum assured of £144,395. The 
annual premium was £189.84
In 2003 Mrs L was not sold a PPI policy. Halifax has told us that at some  point between 2003 
and 2013 a PPI policy  for Mrs L was added to the TMPP. From what  Ive seen Halifax has 
not investigated any complaint from Mr and Mrs L about the addition of the PPI element  for 
Mrs L. So in this decision I am only looking at the TMPP elements that were sold to 
Mr and Mrs L in 2003 when it was set up. If Mr and Mrs L want to know more  details about 
the sale of the PPI to Mrs L they should contact Halifax  in the first instance.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to Halifax about  the sale of the TMPP. Unhappy with its response  
they asked us to step in.
Following our involvement Halifax agreed to uphold the PPI element of the TMPP which was 
sold to cover Mr L against being  unable to work due to an accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. My understanding is that the compensation for this was paid to Mr and Mrs L 
in 2015. 
Mr and Mrs L confirmed they wanted  to continue  their complaint  about the life and critical 
illness policies they were each sold.
Ref: DRN31200962Our adjudicator thought the policies had been mis-sold. The adjudicator thought  
Mr and Mrs L should have  been sold decreasing term assurance policies rather  than level 
term assurance policies  as they had taken out a repayment mortgage.  Decreasing term 
assurance policies  have a sum assured that reduces  over time in line with the outstanding 
balance of the mortgage. Because of this they are usually much cheaper than level-term  
policies. So the adjudicator thought Halifax should repay to Mr and Mrs L the difference 
between what decreasing term policies wouldve cost Mr and Mrs L and what they actually 
paid for the level-term  policies. 
Halifax told us it didnt  offer a decreasing  term version of TMPP at the time so it couldnt 
have sold Mr and Mrs L such a policy. But Halifax did calculate how much such  a policy  
would cost if it was sourced from a different insurer and sold by a financial advisor. Halifax  
told us that it had calculated that decreasing term cover  sold to Mr and Mrs L would actually 
have cost more  than the level-term cover they were sold.
Our adjudicator thought that because of this Mr and Mrs L had not lost out and 
recommended that the complaint should  not be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In February 2019  I issued  my provisional  findings  on this complaint  and invited both parties 
to comment and send  me any additional evidence they wanted  me to think  about. 
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, my 
main reasons were:
I confirmed that Halifax had upheld Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the PPI cover  
sold to Mr L in 2003. It paid Mr and Mrs L fair compensation for this in 2015 and       
Mr and Mrs L accepted the compensation. So in the provisional decision I only 
looked at the sale of the life and critical illness  elements of the TMPP.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs L to take out the TMPP. So it needed to take steps to 
ensure its recommendation was suited to their needs. I didnt think it was.
I looked at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of the sale. They  were  first time 
buyers, they had no dependents  and they both worked full time. So the need  they 
had at the point of sale was the need to cover their outstanding mortgage  amount 
only if either had died or suffered  a critical illness. They did not appear to have  any 
need for additional cover.
As Mr and Mrs L were taking out a repayment  mortgage, the outstanding balance  
would reduce over time as they paid off the outstanding capital. So they needed a 
policy that gave  them decreasing term cover. Under this type of cover the sum 
assured reduces in-line with the outstanding balance  of the mortgage.
The policy Halifax recommended to Mr and Mrs L was a level-term policy. That 
meant the sum assured  did not reduce in line with the mortgage. For this reason 
level-term cover is considered to be more expensive than decreasing  term cover.
Halifax stated that its version of a level-term policy  was actually cheaper than a policy 
offering Mr and Mrs L decreasing term cover. It said that in 2003  it didnt  actually 
offer decreasing  term cover.  Halifax gave various reasons why its level term cover 
Ref: DRN31200963would be cheaper.  These included reduced underwriting costs and the expense of 
meeting with a qualified  financial  adviser to purchase a decreasing term policy.
I didnt agree with Halifaxs figures,  I explained  why I thought  the assumptions it had 
made were flawed. I thought Halifax had not compared like for like with the result  
that the cost of the decreasing term cover it used  for comparison was inflated.
I stated that in my view if the Halifax advisor didnt have a suitable policy to offer     
Mr and Mrs L they should have told them that, rather than recommend they took out 
a policy  that wasnt  right for them.
I said that I didnt know for certain  what Mr and Mrs L wouldve done if Halifax  had 
told them  the TMPP life and critical illness policies  were  not right for them. They  may 
have searched online  or in the marketplace  for a cheaper  decreasing term policy that 
met their needs, or, given their circumstances, they may have simply chosen to rely 
solely on the cover provided  by their employers. But in any event I didnt think  they 
would have chosen to take out the TMPP level term cover sold to them by Halifax.    
I then set out what Halifax needed to do to put things right.  Put simply, Halifax needed to 
refund all the premiums  Mr and Mrs L had paid for the level term cover together  with 
compensatory interest  for the time theyd been  out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs L have told us they accept the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
Halifax has told us that while  it does not accept  my findings it is willing  to make an offer in 
line with the compensation I set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs L have replied with any new evidence  or points for me to 
consider. Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision in February  2019.
putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs L in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out the 
level term life and critical illness policies  sold to them. The policies should be cancelled, if 
they have not been  cancelled already, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the policies.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year simple .
Ref: DRN31200964If Mr or Mrs L made a successful claim under  the policies,  Halifax  can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision and in my provisional findings I uphold  this complaint 
and direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3120096