K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that Bristol Street First Investments  Ltd (trading as Bristol  Street 
Motors) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
hire purchase agreement to buy a car.
background
Mrs B was sold the PPI in March 2007 during a meeting  at the dealership when she was 
buying the car and arranging the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she told the sales advisers that she didnt want  PPI but that she ended  up with it 
anyway, so it was added without her knowledge or consent.
Looking at the hire purchase agreement for the car loan, there is a separate section for PPI. 
Within this section  the cost of the policy is stated  as £15.86. It then gives the monthly cost of 
the loan and then the total of the two sums together. It also states that the PPI selected is 
GOLD A cover. Mrs B has then signed  for the PPI on this part of the form, as well as 
signing elsewhere to agree  the credit.
The GOLD  A cover  did not provide  unemployment  cover. If, as Mrs B has said, the policy 
was automatically added,  I might have expected her to end up with the more  expensive 
Platinum cover. Mrs B has said that she wasnt given any information  about the insurance. 
But not having unemployment  cover  suggest to me that there was probably  some discussion 
about the policy.
Mrs B has said that, after explaining she didnt want the PPI, she just signed the form where 
she was told to. But if Mrs B was sure about not wanting PPI, and given that she says the 
advisers were trying  to pressure her into having it, I might have expected her in those 
circumstances to pay more regard to the paperwork than she might have otherwise. 
Ive thought about the sales environment that Mrs B was in  meetings in car dealerships, 
where you are choosing the car and arranging  the finance and associated  insurance,  tend to 
take a long time and theres lots of different paperwork. So I can understand how the 
experience could have been  daunting.  So Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs B has 
said. But Ive also thought about how long ago the sale was and how this may have affected 
Mrs Bs recollection of events. Overall,  looking at the available evidence,  Im unable  to 
conclude that the policy was added  without Mrs Bs knowledge or consent. On balance  I 
think that the policy was most likely presented  as optional.  It seems to me that Mrs B 
Ref: DRN32468472probably decided  to buy it, knowing that she didnt  have  to, even if she no longer remembers  
doing so.
Bristol Street advised  Mrs B to buy the policy. Therefore  in recommending  it to her it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances  at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable.  Mrs B has said that she was in secure employment and 
so wouldnt get made  redundant. It seems  that this has been taken into consideration 
because, as previously  mentioned, Mrs B was not sold unemployment cover.
Mrs B has said that her employers would  have provided her with sick pay for as long as she 
needed it, although she hasnt provided any evidence of this. The finance  was arranged over 
three years and the policy would potentially have paid out until the loan had been paid off. I 
think its unlikely that Mrs Bs employer would have  given  her sick pay over such a long 
period of time. But regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and potentially for longer than Mrs B would  have  received full pay for.
Although Mrs B has said that her partner would have paid her car repayments for her, other  
people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can change. And Mrs B hasnt 
mentioned any savings that she could fall back on. It seems to me that Mrs B had a need  for 
the policy and could have benefitted  from it.
Its possible that Bristol  Street didnt provide as much  information about the policy  as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mrs B wasnt affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  she had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs B isnt any 
worse off as a result of what Bristol Street  might have done wrong, so theres nothing that 
Bristol Street needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3246847