K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about the service he received from Evolution Insurance Company 
Limited when he asked for assistance  under his breakdown recovery  policy.  
background
Mr R bought his policy, which  provided European  cover before he went on holiday. Mr R 
then broke  down in Europe following this holiday, when he was on his way back to the ferry 
to take him home to the UK. This was in the morning. He called Evolution but said the 
recovery agents never showed and he and family had to sleep in the car. It was also 
extremely hot throughout the day.
After this Mr R arranged  his own tow to the ferry so he wouldnt miss his return  home.  And 
onward travel afterwards.
He complained to Evolution. It said its recovery agent did attend but not till 9.30pm. Mr R 
wasnt with his car. It also said it tried to contact him on his mobile phone but received no 
answer. Therefore,  it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Mr R then brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought Mr Rs complaint should  be 
upheld. She thought Evolution should refund  the tow charge with interest. Whilst his onward 
travel on his return to the UK was a hire car costing  him £200,  the policy had a limit on such 
costs of £75. So she thought Evolution  should pay that £75 plus interest. She was of the 
view that Evolution effectively failed to help Mr R as per its policy terms, which  caused  him 
significantly trouble,  upset and distress. Therefore, it ought  to pay him £350 compensation.
Evolution agreed on a good will basis to refund the tow costs  and pay £75 towards Mr Rs 
onward travel but it didnt agree it should  pay the interest or the compensation.
So as there was no agreement, Mr Rs complaint has been  passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Evolution has agreed it should now pay the tow charge  and the policy limit for onward travel 
to Mr R. Consequently, I wont deal with the reasons why I consider this to be right in any 
depth.
Evolution doesnt believe interest should  be added to either  of those amounts. However, I 
disagree. It is the position that these payments ought to have  been  made  to the consumer, 
Mr R here.  And its clear  Mr R has already paid those amounts out of his own pocket. 
Consequently then I consider that interest  attracts to those amounts. This service uses  the 
rate of 8% simple per year across the board, as Evolution is aware. So I see no reasonable 
or fair reason why Mr R should  not be awarded such interest  to these amounts. 
I also concur with the investigators thoughts that this is reasonable, as Evolution hasnt 
shown it told Mr R it would cover these costs. 
Ref: DRN35530962Turning to the compensation, clearly there were service failings by Evolution as it didnt  
attend Mr R or deal with his request  for assistance for some  11 hours. This is because  Mr R 
broke down  at around 10.30am  and Evolution said it attended him at 9.30pm, albeit that it 
said it then couldnt  find him. Mr R made it clear he and his family were distressed from the 
outset and that it was exceptionally hot. The long delay in Evolution attending Mr R wasnt 
because Mr R broke down in a remote location as Evolution initially said,  it seems it was 
solely to do with the lack of agents  in the country  in which Mr R broke down.  
Therefore, I consider  Mr R and his family were put to unnecessary  distress, trouble and 
upset and I consider  the sum of £350  to be adequate.  Its also in line with what  I have 
awarded in similar circumstances previously.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Evolution Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr R the tow charge and the £75 policy limit for onward travel.
Add interest at 8% simple per year, from the date Mr R paid these amounts to the 
date to the date it refunds him.*
Pay Mr R the sum of £350  compensation for the distress, trouble and upset it caused 
him.
*If Evolution Insurance  Company Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3553096