K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management  Plc (SJPW) gave her 
incorrect information regarding the value that would be applied to her investments should 
she exercise her cancellation  rights. As a result she says she has lost out on approximately 
£10,000 of investment returns.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, and a linked complaint against 
St. Jamess Place UK (SJP UK),  last year. Since  then I have issued  a further provisional 
decision on the related complaint following the receipt of further information from SJP UK 
and Mrs M.
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued last year. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. SJPW said it didnt 
have anything further to add. Mrs M provided me with some  extensive comments  covering 
both this complaint,  and the linked complaint against SJP UK. And I have had further email 
discussions with Mrs M about both complaints more recently. Although I am only 
summarising here what Mrs M has said in relation to this complaint, and the majority of her 
comments were  in relation to the complaint against SJP UK, I have considered her entire 
response carefully before writing this decision.
Mrs M considers that the incorrect information provided to her by SJPW should place a 
requirement on SJP UK, under the terms of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, to honour  the 
incorrect advice shed  been given. She says that without that incorrect information  she may 
well have acted differently, leaving her pension savings invested with SJP UK until the expiry 
of the Early Withdrawal Charges that applied to her savings.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I first considered this complaint last year, further information has come to light about 
the values of Mrs Ms pension savings at the time she instructed they were  moved  into cash, 
and when she decided  to cancel her investments with SJP UK. Some  of the information she 
was given at the time about those  values was incorrect.
I can see that SJPW provided Mrs M with an informal valuation of her pension savings on 
1 March. Following that valuation  Mrs M decided to transfer her savings to a cash  fund to 
protect their value, whilst  she decided whether or not to cancel her investment with SJP UK. 
Mrs M has acknowledged that this was a time of some market volatility. So by the time that 
instruction was received and processed  the value of her pension savings had fallen. But due 
to a processing error by SJP UK, the changes  to Mrs Ms investments, and in particular the 
move to a cash fund, were not reflected on her online  reporting  for around two weeks. That 
meant, that at the time she decided to cancel her investment, she thought  it was worth more 
than it actually was.
Ref: DRN35007602As I said in my provisional decision there  is no doubt  in relation to this complaint that Mrs M 
was given some incorrect  information  by SJPW when  it provided an explanation  of the terms 
of conditions issued  by SJP UK. So I dont think it matters, in relation to this complaint, 
whether or not I consider those terms to have  been  expressed clearly in the documentation 
provided by SJP UK. I think it was reasonable for Mrs M to base her decision on the 
additional commentary provided  by SJPW.
Mrs M had already transferred her savings  to the cash fund before deciding  whether or not 
to cancel her investments  with SJP UK. So the amount she would receive on cancellation  
wasnt actually affected by the incorrect information  recorded on the SJP UK online system. 
And her correct financial position  at that time meant there was little difference between the 
value of the funds she originally transferred and the value after the transfer to cash.
SJPW told Mrs M that she would benefit  from any investment growth between the transfer  of 
her pension savings  and the cancellation of her investments. That wasnt the case.  But 
actually there wasnt much growth in those investments,  despite  what  was shown by 
SJP UKs online reporting. So I still dont think Mrs M would have made a different decision if 
shed been given correct information  about the cancellation value of her investments. That 
correct information  would  have told her that she wouldnt benefit from any investment 
growth, but importantly it would also have told her that in fact there was very little growth  to 
benefit from anyway.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  that SJPW provided to Mrs M about  her investments. 
I wanted to determine whether SJPW, as well as SJP UK, provided  her with incorrect  
valuations after shed  moved her funds into cash. And I cant  fairly say that it did. I can see 
that SJPW, at one stage  did note that the value of Mrs Ms investments had increased  by 
over £10,000. But in its full context, that statement had been preceded by a comment  that 
SJPW was no longer able to access Mrs Ms accounts following the cancellation of her 
investment. The estimated gain was based on information provided by Mr M, who in turn had 
gathered that information from the incorrect reporting provided by SJP UK.
So overall, although I agree that Mrs M was given incorrect information about  what would 
happen when  she cancelled her investments, I dont think she has lost out as a result. Her 
decision to transfer  her pension savings to the cash fund had already been  taken,  and so the 
value of her investments was largely fixed.  And so that meant she had little investment 
upside to lose  so I dont  think  shed  have acted differently with better information.
Ref: DRN35007603my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision I dont uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35007604EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJPW) gave her incorrect 
information regarding  the value that would be applied  to her investments should  she exercise her 
cancellation rights. As a result she says she has lost out on approximately £10,000 of investment  
returns.
background
Mrs M has been assisted  in making this complaint by her husband. But for ease I will refer in this 
decision to all communication and actions as having been undertaken  by Mrs M. This complaint  
involves advice and information provided  by an advisor operating  as what  has been termed a 
partner of SJPW. But SJPW is responsible for that advice and information  and for ease I will similarly 
refer in this decision to SJPW having undertaken the relevant  actions.
Mrs M previously held pension benefits  with two providers. She decided that she wanted  to 
consolidate those pensions into a single  plan and took advice on her options from an advisor working 
on behalf of SJPW. Following what seems to have been detailed consideration of that advice Mrs M 
agreed to transfer her pension  benefits  to a single plan with St. Jamess  Place UK in February 2018.
After becoming  unhappy  with the service that had been  provided by St. Jamess  Place UK and some 
recent poor publicity about the company  Mrs M asked her advisor for information about her rights to 
cancel her investment.  Mrs M has raised a complaint about the time it took St. Jamess Place UK to 
move her cancelled investment to a new provider.  I am dealing with that complaint separately so in 
this decision I will only look at the information she was given by SJPW.
Specifically Mrs M referred to a key features document shed  been given about her retirement  
account. She told SJPW that she thought the section of that document  relating to the cancellation of 
her account  was unclear  and she asked  for guidance on the specific case  of her investment being 
higher at the point of cancellation than it was when originally transferred. SJPW  provided Mrs M with 
information on that and a copy  of the relevant terms.
After considering the information provided  by SJPW Mrs M took the decision  to cancel her investment 
with St. Jamess Place UK. But the amount  that St. Jamess Place  UK said her cancelled  investment 
was worth was less than shed been told by SJPW.  She says that the information provided by SJPW  
was a key part of the cancellation decision  she made.
When Mrs M complained to SJPW it didnt  consider it had done  anything wrong.  It said that Mrs M 
understood the cancellation terms before she made her final decision. But, as a gesture of goodwill,  it 
offered to pay Mrs M £650 to reflect the difference between  the value  of the funds she originally 
transferred and the value that was paid on cancellation. Mrs M didnt accept  that offer so brought her 
complaint to this Service.
Mrs Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although he didnt  think SJPW  had 
been clear  enough in the information it provided  to Mrs M about  cancelling her investment, he didnt 
think Mrs M would have  made a different decision if shed been given better information. So he didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. And, having  reached that conclusion, he thought that the offer 
SJPW had made to Mrs M was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN35007605my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Mrs M 
and by SJPW. There are some  differences in those submissions.  So where the evidence is unclear, 
or there  are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what  evidence  we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more  likely  to have happened.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
SJPW says that the calls that Mrs M made to her advisor were not recorded. So it has been unable to 
provide me with recordings of those calls. But I dont  think  that matters  in deciding this complaint.  The 
evidence that I think is most important are the emails that were exchanged between  SJPW and 
Mr and Mrs M.
It seems to be clear  that Mrs M was aware  that various terms applied to her retirement account  
should she wish to move  the funds  away from St. Jamess Place UK. And in her emails  to SJPW it is 
clear that she understood that making use of the cancellation terms would  allow her to avoid paying  
any Early Withdrawal Charges that would otherwise have been due.
But it is equally  clear  that Mrs M didnt  fully understand everything about  how the cancellation terms 
would affect her investment. In particular she asked SJPW to provide more clarity about  what  would 
happen should her investment have risen in value before  it was cancelled. And she received that 
information back  in an email  from SJPW.
I think  it is worth pointing out here that I think the information in the key features document that 
described the cancellation  process  was clear enough. I think the terms are explicit about what  would  
happen if the investment value had fallen before cancellation. And I also think  that the terms clearly 
imply what would happen otherwise  that is should the investment not have fallen  in value. In that 
case the amount  that would be returned on cancellation  would be the amount that was invested.  But 
what is important is that Mrs M reasonably asked SJPW to provide her with more  information  on what  
I have described here as the implied  terms.
The email that SJPW sent to Mrs M repeated  the full cancellation terms that were detailed in the key 
features document.  I dont think that was particularly helpful here as Mrs M had clearly read those 
terms and had asked for more clarity on them. So I think what is most important is the additional  
narrative that SJPW provided to Mrs M. In response to a question that asked what would happen to 
any investment gain/loss  during the period from investment to the time of cancellation  SJPW  said;
Cancellation terms run 30 days from tour [sic] receipt of confirmation the accounts were set up. It is 
the value of the account  (whether higher or lower at that date)
Despite my earlier comments that I think the terms were clear that any investment gains  would be 
forfeited, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs M to be guided by the additional  commentary  
provided by SJPW. So I accept that when  she made her decision to cancel her investment she had a 
reasonable expectation that she would  receive any gains  that had been made  since the funds were  
transferred to St. Jamess  Place  UK.
Ref: DRN35007606But me making that finding  that the information provided by SJPW was incorrect  doesnt 
necessarily mean that the complaint should be upheld. I also need to be persuaded  that Mrs M has 
lost out, or acted differently,  as a result of the incorrect information.
I dont think Mrs M was ever entitled to the higher value once  she had decided  to cancel her 
investment. So as Ive said when deciding  her complaint  against  St. Jamess Place UK I think  the 
amount that should have  been paid to her new pension provider was the amount that she initially 
invested with St. Jamess Place UK. And I havent seen anything that makes me think  Mrs M made 
any irrevocable spending decisions based on an expectation that she would receive  the higher 
amount. After all, Mrs Ms expectation was that she wouldnt be starting to access  her pension 
benefits until approximately  6  10 years later.
Mrs M has said that the incorrect information she received from SJPW was an important consideration 
in deciding whether or not to cancel her investment. And I dont doubt  that was the case. But on 
balance, like our adjudicator,  I think that Mrs Ms stated  dissatisfaction and concerns over the ability  of 
St. Jamess Place UK to efficiently manage her pension  plan was such  that she would have decided  
to cancel  her investment regardless.
Given that this is a provisional  decision  I am of course expecting  Mrs M to make further 
representations to explain  what  she would have done if she had received  better information from 
SJPW. And I will of course consider those representations carefully.  But, for the avoidance of doubt, 
in order to uphold  this complaint I would need to be persuaded  that Mrs M would have decided  to not 
cancel her investment with St. Jamess  Place UK if shed  been given  the correct information. And then 
it follows that the redress  I would  direct would be reliant  on Mrs M agreeing  to return her investments 
back to St. Jamess Place UK for them to be invested on the same terms, and with the same advisor 
fees, as she had originally agreed before cancelling  the account.
I dont currently consider that SJPW was responsible for the difference  between  the shortfall in the 
amount Mrs M originally  invested, and what was paid to her new provider after the account  had been 
cancelled. I think that was the responsibility  of St. Jamess Place  UK and I have issued a provisional  
decision directing it to make good that shortfall.  So I do not intend to ask SJPW to make the payment 
it proposed, as a gesture  of goodwill in its final response to Mrs M, in that regard.
Ref: DRN3500760