K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains, through her representative,  that Zurich Assurance  Ltd reduced  her sum 
assured on her life assurance policy without making  her aware.
background
Mrs I has a reviewable whole-of-life assurance policy with Zurich. This was originally a joint 
life policy, but after Mrs Is husband  passed away the policy was solely in her name. The 
policy was reviewed in 2007 and Mrs I decided to increase the premium to maintain a higher 
sum assured. In 2015  and 2016, Mrs I chose to pay the same premium  for an increased  sum 
assured. 
When the policy was reviewed again  in 2017 Zurich wrote to Mrs Is representative   who 
has Power of Attorney.  It explained that the premium could maintain the sum assured. This 
was sent on 26 January.  However this was a mistake. The premiums would have to increase 
significantly to maintain the sum assured of around £180,000. Zurich  sent a letter  out on 20 
February 2017 to explain  it had made a mistake  and apologised. If Mrs I didnt want to 
increase her premium, her sum assured would reduce to around £37,000. As Zurich didnt 
hear from Mrs I or her representative, the sum assured reduced.
Mrs Is representative said she didnt receive the letter,  and the first time she became  aware  
the sum assured was much  lower was when the policy was reviewed in 2018. She 
complained and explained that Mrs I wouldve cancelled her policy earlier.  She also 
complained that Zurich  didnt tell her how the policy worked when the Power  of Attorney was 
registered. Zurich  offered  to increase the sum assured to around £180,000 but the premiums  
would have to be backdated for this. It also offered Mrs Is representative £60 compensation 
for the customer service  issues  she experienced during a call.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She explained that the error Zurich  made  was 
sending out a letter which had the incorrect  review details. It corrected this a month  later 
when it sent out a correction letter. The investigator said that whilst it was unfortunate Mrs Is 
representative didnt  receive this letter, Zurich  had sent it out to the correct  address.  She 
also explained it wasnt obliged  to give the representative details when  the Power of Attorney 
was registered.  So she didnt feel Zurich should do anything more than offering to increase 
the sum assured provided Mrs I paid the increased  premiums.
Mrs Is representative disagreed. She explained  that they wouldve cancelled the policy 
earlier had they received  the letter. And that the mistake has cost Mrs I 20 months of 
premiums which is over £13,000. She would like Zurich to refund  these  premiums.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator for similar reasons.
information on how the policy works
This policy is a reviewable whole-of-life policy. This means that at certain intervals,  Zurich  
reviews the policy  to determine whether  the premiums Mrs I is paying can support the level 
of cover she has.
Ref: DRN31177202The way the policy worked wouldve been explained at the time Mrs I took it out. When her 
representative registered Power of Attorney there was no obligation on Zurich to explain how 
the policy works again. I understand  why Mrs Is representative wouldve  liked to have 
understood this, but if she wanted to know further  details she couldve requested this 
information from Zurich  at the time.  I cant see that she did that and I wouldnt expect Zurich  
to send out the information as a matter of course.
policy review
When Zurich carried out the policy review in 2017  it incorrectly explained that Mrs Is 
premium didnt need to be increased  to maintain her higher sum assured. So it did make an 
error. However, in February 2017 (more  than a month before the policy changes needed to 
take place) it sent out a letter explaining  that it had made an error.  It then explained  the 
options available to Mrs I. The letter  was sent to Mrs Is representative  as I expected it to 
be and the address was correct. I understand the letter wasnt  received  but Im satisfied it 
was sent correctly  so its not fair for Zurich  to be held responsible for this letter  not being 
received.
I understand that Mrs Is representative has said they wouldve cancelled the policy had they 
been aware earlier that the premiums wouldnt support  the sum assured. However I note that 
the policy has continued to be in place.  Its difficult to know what  would  have been  done with 
any certainty, but the policy  has continued  to provide cover for Mrs I, and will continue to do 
so whilst the premiums are being paid. So it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to ask Zurich  to 
refund any of the premiums that have  been paid. Similarly, it wouldnt be fair to increase 
Mrs Is sum assured without having to pay the increased premiums  as the premiums she is 
paying arent sufficient  to support such a high sum assured. 
I acknowledge that an error had occurred, but I feel Zurich took sufficient steps to correct  its 
error within a reasonable space of time. So I dont think  it would be fair to ask it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Is 
representative to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117720