K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains AIB Group (UK) Plc treated  her unreasonably when she tried to set up 
power of attorney for her account.  
For this complaint Mrs B is represented by four of her children. For ease of understanding  I 
will refer,  unless I state otherwise, to the representatives actions as being her own. 
background
Mrs B granted enduring  power of attorney to four of her children. She applied  for them to be 
able to manage her account with AIB. As part of the process of setting this up it asked the 
attorneys to consent  to a Cifas search.  They all refused to give it. Because  of that AIB didnt 
put the power of attorney into effect for Mrs Bs account. 
Mrs B feels  AIB acted unreasonably.  It says it needs  the consent to fulfil legal and regulatory 
requirements. Mrs B doesnt  accept  this. She feels AIB may be in breach of data protection 
rules. 
Our investigator didnt  think AIB had acted unfairly  or unreasonably by requesting consent to 
conduct a Cifas search. Mrs B didnt accept her assessment. So the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.  
Mrs Bs raised concern at how AIB responded when  she told it some transactions on her 
account may not have been  authorised by her. That issue is being looked at in a different 
complaint, so isnt considered in this final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  AIBs acted fair 
and reasonably. So Im not making  it do anything  differently. 
AIB says it needs consent to a Cifas search to comply with immigration law. Its referred to 
rules that require it to make checks against  a list of disqualified persons. It says the rules 
require it to do this when opening a new account or adding  a new signatory  to an existing 
account. It says the way it meets  this requirement is via a third party  firms search that 
includes a check against the Cifas database.
Mrs B says the relevant law and regulatory  guidance only refer to opening an account. She 
says they dont refer to an attorney.  But she hasnt  shown enough to make  me think AIB 
acted unreasonably. The relevant immigration  law defines opening an account to include 
adding a signatory  to an existing account. So it seems reasonable to me that AIB feels  it 
needs to check  if attorneys,  added as signatories to an account, are disqualified  persons.  
Mrs B says the consent requested was a third party firm search that she feels extends  well 
beyond a Cifas  check. But AIB has said it doesnt undertake searches about an attorneys 
financial circumstances. Ive no reason to doubt  what it says. 
So Ive considered what Mrs Bs said, the relevant law and guidance and the information 
provided by AIB. Having  done so, I cant say that AIB acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
requiring the attorneys  to consent to a Cifas search.   
Ref: DRN37609862Mrs B says an AIB employee  couldnt  explain why consent for a Cifas search was required. 
And that the employee said it wasnt a legal  requirement. AIB denies  this was said. But even 
if it was I cant  see it would  have  made  a significant  difference. The necessity for consent 
was confirmed fairly soon  after.
 
Mrs B feels  AIB may have  breached  data protection rules. It isnt this services role to decide 
if a business has done that. Thats something for the Information Commissioners  Office 
(ICO) to decide. But we can consider  if its fair and reasonable for a business  to compensate 
or take other  action to recognise the impact  of such a breach. In any event AIB hasnt,  as far 
as Im aware, disclosed any personal  information that it shouldnt have.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not making AIB Group (UK) Plc do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3760986