K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc closed her account and didnt pay her the full 
amount in the account at the time. 
background
Mrs N had an account with Barclays. Over  several days  in June and July 2018 she received 
a number of payments into her account. As well as her salary, she received several  
payments for the same amount from a number of different sources; the references  on those 
payments indicated that they were from individuals.  
Mrs N has explained that the payments were sent to her by friends  to assist her in paying a 
deposit. One of those  payments was, however,  removed from Mrs Ns account  and returned  
to the sender. It appears that the holder of the account from which it was sent hadnt agreed 
to make the payment  or at least said they hadnt  made it. 
A few weeks  later Barclays wrote  to Mrs N to say that it was closing the account with 
immediate effect. It returned the balance of the money to her, but not the payment it had 
returned to the sender  £483.35. 
Mrs N complained but the bank said it had acted in line with its regulatory and other 
obligations. It wouldnt return  the money or refund the payment. Mrs N referred the matter to 
this service, and one of our investigators  considered it. He thought however that Barclays 
had treated Mrs N fairly in the circumstances. Mrs N didnt agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Ill deal first of all with the money that Mrs N says was removed from her account,  rather than 
being made available to her. This was, she says, money that shed received from a friend.  It 
was however returned because the account holder said they hadnt  sent it. If, as Mrs N says,  
the sender of the money  was a friend who was prepared to help her out financially, there  
doesnt seem to be any reason why she shouldnt take the matter up with that person. 
We would  usually expect  a bank to give reasonable notice before closing an account. In 
many cases,  that is likely to mean two months. In this case, however, I think  it was 
reasonable for Barclays to act sooner than that. And, whilst we can require a bank to re-
open an account or award compensation if it has acted unfairly in closing an account, I dont 
believe either would be appropriate here. 
In conclusion, I dont  believe  Barclays acted unfairly, either in closing Mrs Ns account  or in 
returning money to the sender, rather than allowing her to keep it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mrs Ns complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs N to accept  or reject  my decision before  1 June 2020.
Ref: DRN34972732Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3497273