K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited,  trading  as Satsuma, lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Mrs M had one loan with Satsuma in January  2018. It was for £1,000  and was repayable in 
12 monthly instalments  of £166.
An adjudicator considered  this complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought  
Satsuma had done enough to check whether  the loan was affordable  and that it wasnt 
wrong for Satsuma to approve it.
Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. In short, this meant it had to carry out 
proportionate checks to understand whether the lending was sustainable.  Whats  
proportionate could depend on a number of factors, such as the size of the loan,  the income 
and expenditure  of the applicant, and their credit history.
Mrs M declared  a monthly income  of £2,100 when applying for the loan and total monthly 
outgoings of £500. So on the face of it, the monthly  payments of £166 were  easily  
affordable.
I think it is likely Satsuma wouldve seen, from the credit  check  it says it carried out, that 
Mrs Ms credit commitments may have  been  higher than she declared. Its not clear to me 
exactly what credit reference data Satsuma had, or how it took it into account. But it did 
assume Mrs Ms outgoings were about  twice what she declared when making its lending 
decision. I think this extra assumed expenditure is enough  to take into account any credit 
commitments Mrs M didnt include in her declared  outgoings.
Having considered everything, I think Satsumas checks were proportionate in the 
circumstances. As the proportionate checks suggested the loan was affordable, I dont think  
Satsuma was wrong to approve it. Im not therefore  upholding this complaint.
It seems  Mrs M may still be in financial difficulty.  I remind Satsuma of its ongoing obligation 
to treat her positively  and sympathetically  and hope  both parties are able to engage  in a 
constructive dialogue about the outstanding debt.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Provident  Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN39615962Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3961596