K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined 
their claim for their car fob after it was stolen from their home.
background
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home  insurance policy following a theft at their home; 
amongst the items taken was their car fob. However, Liverpool Victoria declined this item 
based on the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs B hold contents cover (which  protects household goods in their home)  and 
also personal possessions cover (which protects  items outside of their home,  that are 
designed to be worn or carried). The policy terms state that contents and personal 
possessions are not: motor vehicles  and all their accessories
London Victoria considered the car fob to be a vehicle accessory,  so it declined this item. It 
commented that the car fob is used to start the car and has no other purpose than to be 
used with the car. 
London Victoria also noted that whilst the policy covers  loss of keys  the policy  clearly 
states that this is for keys to the home (rather than a car).
Mr and Mrs B disagreed that the car fob was a vehicle accessory. They  brought  a complaint 
to this service where it was considered  by one of our investigators,  but she didnt think it 
should be upheld.  Our investigator thought that the intention of the policy was to exclude  
anything thats  used with a vehicle,  and said the fob should be considered a vehicle part. 
Because Mr and Mrs B disagreed, their complaint  has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B dont consider their car fob to be a vehicle accessory.  In 
my view, an accessory is something  that is optional or extra; whereas  the item in question is 
integral to the functioning of the car. But by the same rationale, Im persuaded a car fob is a 
vehicle part. Im also satisfied that in the context of the policy, its reasonable to interpret the 
term motor vehicles to include  all vehicle parts,  regardless  of whether a part is attached  to, 
or in, a vehicle at the time of the loss. Overall, Im also persuaded that the intention of the 
policy is sufficiently clear.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Bs car fob isnt covered by their home insurance 
policy  under the terms its not a contents item, or a personal possession. For this reason, 
Ive decided London Victoria has fairly  declined  this aspect of their claim. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. But for the reasons given above, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Ref: DRN32389732Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3238973