K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC put barriers in his way when he tried to get his 
account unblocked following transactions he didnt recognise.
background
Mr T has a credit  card issued by Tesco  Personal Finance (Tesco). He describes himself  as 
an elderly and vulnerable  gentleman who has profound hearing loss.
Mr T says Tesco sent him a text message in the early  hours  of the morning asking him 
whether he recognised certain transactions. Mr T says he replied N straightaway  despite 
the time  as he didnt recognise  them. Tesco blocked Mr Ts card.
Mr T says he believes Tesco called him several  times later that day, but he was unable  to 
hear what the person on the other side was saying or even if it was a recorded message. 
Having discovered  his card had been blocked,  Mr T wrote to Tesco to say once again that 
he didnt recognise  the transactions and to ask Tesco to unblock  his card. He also got his 
son to phone Tesco, whilst he was present, to talk about unblocking his card. Mr T says the 
member of staff his son spoke to wasnt Deaf Aware and said that they couldnt speak to his 
son unless he had a Power  of Attorney. Mr T complained to Tesco about its response.
Tesco looked into Mr Ts complaint and said that it hadnt done  anything wrong. It said that it 
couldnt speak  to Mr Ts son about  the unauthorised transactions unless he had a Power  of 
Attorney, and that it couldnt deal with the issue by email or letter as Mr T wanted. It also 
said Mr T needed to call its minicom  number or use the text relay service.  Mr T was unhappy  
with Tescos response. He said that hed need to buy a textphone or a smartphone  to use 
the services Tesco had suggested.  He added that Tesco  should  fund a textphone or a 
smartphone for him if it was going  to insist on him using  those  services.  Tesco  didnt agree, 
so Mr T complained to us. In the meantime, Mr Ts card remained blocked.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ts complaint and agreed that Tescos suggestion 
that it could only speak to Mr Ts son if he had a Power of Attorney wasnt helpful.  Nor was 
its suggestion that he should  have  to buy a textphone in order to get his account  
unblocked. Our investigator did, however,  think Mr T could use what  is known as the next 
generation text relay  service as this was free. Mr T didnt agree, saying that hed still need a 
smartphone for this service. So, I was asked to consider  his complaint.
Ref: DRN30170802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the merits  of Mr Ts complaint, I think itd be helpful to explain how we 
approach complaints like this  in particular, to explain our approach  to complaints involving 
the Equality Act 2010. I should add that Im aware  that many  people who are Deaf  dont 
consider themselves disabled. Ive considered the Equality Act 2010 nevertheless,  given 
that Mr T has suggested Tesco should  be making  reasonable adjustments  for him. Thats  a 
duty that businesses owe to individuals  who have a disability. Its likely,  given what Mr T 
has told us, that the problems  that Mr T has with his hearing have a substantial  and long-
term impact on [his] ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities. That would also mean 
hed be deemed  a person with a disability  for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010. 
how we approach cases like this
In a case involving  the Equality Act 2010,  its not our role to say whether a business has 
acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter  for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that we have to take into account:
a)relevant law and regulations;
b)relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards;
c)relevant codes of practice; and
d)(where appropriate)  what  we consider to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
So, although  itd be for the Courts to say whether  or not Tesco had breached  the Equality 
Act 2010,  Im required to take into account relevant law. That includes thinking about  what a 
Court would likely decide if Mr T were to make  a claim under  the Equality Act 2010.
Mr Ts complaint
Before getting  into the detail, I think its important  to say that Tesco hasnt always  dealt with 
Mr Ts as well as I would have expected. He made  it clear, for example, that he has 
profound hearing  loss  and is a Deaf lip reader  and cannot use a phone.  Despite this, Tesco  
continued to ask Mr T to call  them and continued  to say that they needed to speak in 
order to get his card unblocked. That has made  resolving this complaint harder than it should 
have been. In short, Tesco could have shown more  understanding  had it done  so, the 
relationship between Tesco and Mr T might  not have been strained as much as it has been. 
So onto the detail.
I can understand why Tesco wanted  to make sure that it was communicating  with Mr T when 
it became clear that there  had been unauthorised transactions  on his account.  I can also see 
that Mr T was very grateful that Tescos systems had flagged these transactions as 
potentially suspicious.  He said as such in his letter  to Tesco, and he was right to do so. 
Tesco was, however, aware  that Mr T had profound  hearing loss  as it had notes on its 
system to this effect.  So, I do think it could and should have done more.  Ill explain why.
Tesco made two suggestions  when Mr T complained  namely  that he could call their 
minicom line or use the text relay service.  To use Tescos minicom line, however, Mr T 
would have needed a textphone. Thats not, despite what the name might suggest,  a 
Ref: DRN30170803second-generation mobile phone  (more  commonly known as a 2G phone) that allows  the 
user to send text messages. Here a textphone  means a specialist piece of equipment  that 
costs around £300  and more importantly a piece of equipment that Mr T doesnt have. 
That doesnt  mean I think Tescos suggestion wasnt a sensible one  it was. Thats  because  
a lot of Tescos customers use their minicom line and find it very helpful. Unfortunately,  it 
wasnt an option for Mr T  unless  he got his hands on a textphone. Nor was the text relay  
service  or at least not as far as Mr T was concerned. Thats  because, as Mr T rightly 
pointed out, he would  have needed a smartphone to download an app in order  to use this 
service. In other words,  a third-generation mobile phone (more  commonly known as a 3G 
phone) or better. Thats  not what Mr T has got  he has a 2G phone which he uses  almost 
exclusively now to send  texts as his hearing has deteriorated since  he bought it.
I can see that Mr T was, by this stage,  very frustrated with Tesco.  I can understand why too. 
His card had been blocked, hed been told by Tesco that it couldnt speak to his son about  
the account unless he had a power  of attorney  and the suggestions Tesco had made  
wouldnt work on his mobile. There was, however,  another option   namely Mr T could have 
used the next generation text relay service if hed downloaded  the app onto his computer 
and linked this to his landline or mobile. Thats  something that Mr T has now tried  an 
insurance company  he wanted to deal with having helped talk him through  how to do this. I 
do think Tesco could have  spoken  to Mr Ts son about how to set up the next generation text 
relay service, so that Mr T (who doesnt like technology and isnt confident with it) could have 
set this up. That wouldnt have involved Tesco talking to Mr Ts son about any of Mr Ts 
account details,  so shouldnt have been as big a cause for concern. This could also be 
considered a reasonable adjustment  an exception to Tescos normal processes given 
that they could  put people like Mr T, who cannot use a phone,  at a disadvantage. Its 
unfortunate that Tesco didnt offer this early on  it could have resolved issues much sooner. 
Mr T is an elderly  gentleman who doesnt like technology and isnt confident with it. He 
describes himself as vulnerable too  and I agree hes likely to fall within  the FCAs definition  
of vulnerable. For him, technology and its potential to exclude him is a real issue.
Ive spoken to both parties about this complaint.  Having done so, Tesco  has agreed to 
unblock Mr Ts account, cancel his old card and send out a new one. Tesco agreed to this 
because its accepted that the person who complained to us, and the person who we and 
they have been dealing  with for the last few months, is Mr T and not someone pretending to 
be him. I think  thats a sensible  step for Tesco to take in this case.  Mr T has been  looking 
into buying a smartphone and has been able to set up his computer  so he can use the next 
generation text relay  service, which hes described  as brilliant. In short, the parties  appear  
to be able to put this behind themselves now. In the circumstances,  I dont think I need to 
ask Tesco  to do any more  (beyond apologising for not having resolved this complaint  
sooner) or to say whether Tesco should  have funded equipment for Mr T, other than to say 
that some  businesses would consider that a reasonable adjustment.
Ref: DRN30170804Tescos records  already say that Mr T has profound hearing  loss and that hes a Deaf lip 
reader. Earlier on in this complaint, Tesco asked Mr T to sign a form giving his express 
consent to Tesco keeping a record of this information. Mr T has told Tesco  thats he already 
given his consent, and he wants this information on his records. Hes told us the same  thing.  
So, Tesco has made a note of this information  on its systems. If Mr T decides in the future 
that he no longer  wants this information on his records, hell need to let Tesco  know hes 
withdrawn his consent. In the meantime, he doesnt  need  to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC ought  to apologise for not doing more 
to resolve this complaint earlier. That is, in my opinion, a fair and reasonable outcome given 
that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has now unblocked Mr Ts card and issued him a new 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3017080