K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Grosvenor Financial Consultants Ltd (GFC)  gave  her unsuitable 
advice to transfer her pensions to a Self-invested Pension Plan so she could then invest  in 
an overseas property development (Harlequin). Mrs H says she did not understand the risk 
of the transaction or that she could lose all her money. She says this was not explained to 
her by GFC and it was not appropriate  to carry out the transfer and investment. 
background
I issued a provisional decision 14 January 2019.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold the complaint. 
GFC did not accept the provisional decision and made further  submissions. In summary it 
said:
It did not have  any agency for, or relationship  to, the Harlequin investment.
Mr and Mrs H contacted GFC  after Hornbuckle  Mitchell declined to deal with the 
SIPP applications because  it did not deal direct  with individuals.
Mr and Mrs H reserved Harlequin  properties  before they approached GFC.
Weight should be given to the letter Mr H wrote to GFC dated 6 March 2010 in which  
it was stated that both Mr and Mrs H understood GFCs role. This was written 
because GFC had refused to administer the purchase of the first two Harlequin 
properties and Mr and Mrs H intended to buy a third property directly with Harlequin. 
Mr and Mrs H are sophisticated, knowledgeable and professional  investors. Since 
2004 Mr and Mrs H have  been  Directors or company secretary  for six companies. 
Mr H is registered at companies house as an architect, businessman and 
entrepreneur. One of his businesses had a turnover of £3 million.
Mr and Mrs H have three Buy-to-Lets  (BTLs) and researched this market  
themselves. These are investments. 
Mr and Mrs H were asked  for some more  information  regarding the issues  GFC had raised. 
They said:
That they did not approach Hornbuckle  Mitchell  directly. At that time they did not 
understand what a SIPP provider was or what it did and had not heard of the SIPP  
provider. GFC was recommended to them by Mr D.
Mr H had worked in the construction industry  all his life, mainly  in an Architectural 
Design/Technical capacity. He had been  a director of a small local building company 
with a turnover  of about £1.8 million. Before he left that company it was not the 
established house builder that it is now and before he left, we dabbled with 
development in a very small and tentative way... a couple of individual residential 
units and a conversion of a large  house  into 6 flats.  Associated  companies were  set 
up to undertake the property developments. 
Ref: DRN38038012Mr H was also a director of a company involved  in insulating conservatory roofs, 
which went into liquidation  and a newly established business dealing  in electric bikes 
and scooters. Mrs H had never  been a company director. 
The BTLs were  in the local market and aimed at the student market.  They  believe 
they are completely different  than the SIPP investments  which were off-plan and 
overseas. They  put a 5% deposit  down  to purchase these properties.
The only investments Mr and Mrs H held were a small amount of bank shares  
worth £1,700.
Mr and Mrs Hs comments  were passed  to GFC. GFC:
Queried Mr Hs comments about  GFCs connections or agencies  with any other  
parties. It said it did not have referral  relationships or agencies  with the party Mr H 
was referring to.
Highlighted  the dates Mr and Mrs H made  Harlequin deposits and that this was 
before GFC dealt  with them. It said that Mr and Mrs H must have had some savings 
as they paid deposits of £3,000  and also that using  a SIPP  was mentioned  at the 
time so they must have  had an awareness of SIPPs.
Highlighted  Mr Hs involvement  in property companies and that he was a controlling 
director. It believes Mr H was well aware  of the risks involved.  
The BTLs were  non-regulated and specialised and it would like confirmation of the 
lenders. It said Mr and Mrs H managed  to research three  specialist mortgages and 
source three BTL properties. It does not believe Mr and Mrs H are unsophisticated.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm that I do not give Mr and Mrs Hs submissions any greater weight than 
GFCs. I consider all the evidence, including the submissions that have been made by both 
parties to decide  what is a fair and reasonable outcome  in the circumstances. 
I set out in the provisional decision that I did not believe  the pension  transfer  to the SIPP 
could be safely considered execution-only and the reasons why. I remain  of that view.  
Consequently GFC should have considered the consequences and risk of that transfer  as 
well as the investments  to be made.  
Although Mr and Mrs H have confirmed the amount  owing on the BTLs  I do not believe the 
amounts are material to the outcome of the complaint. I also do not believe that the lenders 
they used are material to the outcome. The fact that that they did hold such  property 
investments is relevant  and it shows a willingness to invest in property. That is, that they did 
have experience of making property investments apart from their own home. And Harlequin  
was such property investment. I have  taken that into account.
When Mr and Mrs H were referring  to other  investments, I believe they were referring to 
investments such as shares  rather that physically holding real property.  That said,  BTLs are 
Ref: DRN38038013investments. But Mr and Mrs H held no higher risk type investments at the time apart from a 
small amount of bank  shares. This lack of any experience of investment plans or products in 
general would not tend to indicate  investment sophistication, pension  knowledge  or that they 
were professional investors  with an extensive knowledge of financial products. The cash 
sums they found  to make deposits do not indicate  wider investment experience. Whereas  
straightforward investments in real property are not regulated I do not agree that obtaining  
mortgages to buy modest  properties such as Mr and Mrs H did necessarily implies 
investment sophistication.  Buying a property  to rent with a mortgage is not a complex 
transaction.       
It is clear that Mr H did have long term experience of property and (relatively  small scale)  
property development  and I have considered his background  in detail. I think it likely  he 
would be aware  of the risk of investing  in as yet to be developed property in the UK. But 
what I do not believe he likely understood (and therefore Mrs H understood) were all the 
combined risks involved with transferring pensions and then investing most of the pension  
funds in an unregulated overseas property development. I would highlight that most of 
Mrs Hs pension value derived from a defined benefit occupational pension  scheme  and she 
was not likely made aware  of the disadvantages of giving up such benefits.  She may well 
have been told that she could use a SIPP to do this before she approached GFC but that 
does not mean she was aware of all the issues involved  in the transfer or exactly  how a 
SIPP operated. Her lack of any experience in this area would not suggest  that she did.  
Mr and Mrs H may have  reserved the properties before they approached GFC but if all the 
risks had been explained and they had been  given advice that it was not suitable to proceed 
to risk almost the entirely of their pension funds in an unregulated high risk overseas 
investment then, given  that was from a regulated professional party,  I think  they would have 
taken notice of that. I do not believe it likely  that they would have then transferred and 
invested.
I do not believe that Mrs H invested in a third property direct is persuasive that she would 
have transferred and invested her pension if given appropriate  guidance  and advice. She did 
not have that guidance  and advice when investing in the third property.
I would also reiterate what I set out in the provisional  decision about  this transfer and 
investment not being in Mrs Hs best interests  and GFC not fulfilling its responsibility in terms 
of Principles 2 and 6. 
I would confirm that my decision is not affected by any relationship  GFC might have had with 
any parties involved in the promotion  of Harlequin.  My decision would be the same  whether 
it had any such relationship or not. 
For the reasons  discussed in my provisional  decision and this final decision I believe the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I order  Grosvenor Financial Consultants Ltd to calculate and pay 
redress as set out in the attached provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN38038014David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38038015copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs H complains that Grosvenor Financial Consultants Ltd (GFC) gave her unsuitable advice to 
transfer her pensions  to a Self-invested Pension Plan so she could then invest  in an overseas  
property development (Harlequin). Mrs H says she did not understand  the risk of the transaction  or 
that she could lose all her money.  She says this was not explained  to her by GFC and it was not 
appropriate to carry out the transfer and investment. 
  
background
Mrs H says that she first became aware of the Harlequin investment in the summer of 2009 through  
friends. She was then contacted by an individual (which  I will call Mr D) who discussed the Harlequin 
investment with her and her husband. Mr D recommended they speak to a financial adviser with 
respect to using their pensions to invest  in Harlequin.  She says GFC then contacted them and the 
documents to create  the SIPP  and transfer her pensions was completed at GFC  offices. 
Mrs Hs representatives complained to GFC that it had failed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that 
Mrs H fully understood the information given to her and the risks of the SIPP and Harlequin 
investment. It said that the entirety of Mrs Hs pension was invested in an unregulated investment. It 
said that GFC  had not carried out sufficient fact finding to establish  the investment  was suitable for 
Mrs H or assessed  her attitude to risk. It also did not explain she could lose all her investment.  
GFC replied to that complaint and said:
It was instructed to set up the SIPP  on an execution only basis. Mrs Hs husband had signed  
a letter confirming this. 
As the transaction was on an execution  only basis  it was not required to carry  out any fact 
finding or assessment  of risk. 
The application form for the SIPP  confirmed  no advice had been given. 
No advice  was given or sought and this was drawn  to the attention  of Mrs H.
It did not undertake  any due diligence' on the investment.
Clear warnings as to the investment were provided. 
The complaint was referred to this service. An adjudicator at this service considered the complaint. 
She thought  it should be upheld. Whilst she noted GFCs comments  that it did not provide advice on 
the investment  to be held in the SIPP,  she thought  that Mrs H would  have understood she was 
receiving advice on the SIPP and investment. The investment was not in her view suitable for Mrs H.
GFC did not agree and made  reference to a letter it issued on 28 August 2009 stating  that it was not 
providing advice on the investment and it was high risk. It also made  reference to a letter written by 
Mrs H stating she understood the risks involved.  It made reference to Mrs H acting  independently and 
having no further contact with GFC after the transfer to the SIPP  and investment of the money had 
been carried out. It says Mrs H invested in Harlequin subsequently, independently, and without any 
assistance from GFC. GFC  also made reference to another complaint considered by this service. 
The complaint has therefore  been referred to me for review. 
Ref: DRN38038016my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H were effectively acting jointly with regard to the Harlequin investments  and SIPP and so 
I will refer to Mr H at times. 
GFC has said that it did not give advice on the investment  and this was an execution only 
transaction. This generally describes a situation  where the business simply carries  out a transaction 
of the individuals choosing on their instruction with no advice being  given.
Indeed, there  is a letter  to Mr and Mrs H of 28 August  2009. The letter says:
I am confirming that this transaction will be on an Execution  Only basis. This is because  Grosvenor 
has no dealings  nor desire to advise about  this type of product which might be deemed to be high 
risk and unregulated.
You have  approached Grosvenor Financial Consultants Limited (GFC  Ltd) directly
because of our knowledge  off Pensions, specifically Self Invested Personal Pension's (SIPP's) which 
you wish to use to make this purchase.
GFC Ltd cannot stress enough that you should request independent  legal
advice regarding this product as it is deemed to be high risk and unregulated.
You will receive no advice from GFC and the only correspondence will be
regarding your Hornbuckle Mitchell  SIPP  that you have requested that we
arrange.
It should be noted that Mrs H has said that she never received this letter. 
In addition, Mr H wrote to the GFC adviser  on 6 March  2010  saying:
"I write  to confirm that Grosvenor Financial Consultants Ltd have been appointed
solely to facilitate the financial transactions in the acquisition of the 3 properties  that
myself and (Mrs H) have purchased at Buccament Bay through Harlequin
Properties.
At no point have Grosvenor  Financial Consultants Ltd been  requested, or have
offered any financial advice, recommendations or opinion with regard to the
acquisition of the properties,  the company  (Harlequin  Properties Ltd), the method of
financing of the purchase, the market or the location of the development  
Grosvenor Financial Consultants Ltd have carried out their duties exactly  as requested by (Mr 
and Mrs H), for which they wish to express their gratitude."
However there is clear  dispute between this and Mrs Hs version of events. She says:
As Grosvenor got local offices we went and were given all documents  to sign.
At no point did (the adviser) ever explain that this was a high risk or unregulated
investment. He also did not explain to us that he was dealing with us on an execution
only basis. We believed we paid him a fee for his advice. We never  had a financial
review of our pensions previously - we didn't  have a financial adviser,  so we
did not know  what to expect. He never discussed our Attitude  to Risk with us,
and it was only when (their representative)  asked us for copies that we understood what
should have happened  prior to the pension  transfer.
Ref: DRN38038017What is in my view clear  is that GFC had full knowledge of why the SIPP  was being created and how 
it was being funded. It administered  the setting up of the SIPP and suggested what  SIPP to be used. 
GFC wrote  to the SIPP provider on 3 November 2009 enclosing discharge forms for Mrs Hs 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and enclosed Harlequin purchase contracts. GFC also wrote to 
the SIPP  provider on 23 November 2009 saying: 
Now that the initial sum of (about £47,000)  has been received by (Mrs H's) pension
from North Yorkshire  County Council,  please find enclosed a signed Telegraphic Transfer
form which will allow  you to proceed  with (Mrs Hs) purchase of property in the
Caribbean.
GFC were  registered by the SIPP provider as the servicing IFA for the SIPP. 
the SIPP
In terms of the SIPP I do not believe the transaction can be safely  considered  execution only. Firstly 
the information GFC  gave  (which I have referred to) was that it was not giving advice as to the 
investment. It is not at all clear,  and would  not have been to Mrs H, that it wasnt giving advice  as to 
the SIPP.  Indeed I am not of the view that the circumstances suggest  it was an execution  only 
transaction. Mrs H did not approach GFC with a SIPP  in mind  or in fact that a transfer to a SIPP was 
what she should do. Mrs H had only been  told that she may be able to use her pensions to invest  in 
Harlequin and then had been contacted by, or directed to, GFC who had proposed  a SIPP to her and 
carried out the pension transfers. 
Furthermore Mrs H was clearly not the type of sophisticated, knowledgeable  or professional investor 
who would normally be involved in execution only transactions and this would likely  have been 
apparent to GFC. 
I say this as Mrs H has said that she worked as a part time teaching assistant up to 2011 and her 
taxable income  in 2009/10 was nil. She had pensions  worth about  £55,000,  most of which  was built 
up in what I understand was a final salary (defined benefit) OPS.  With her partner, she had about 
£2,000 in cash. She also had three buy to let properties with her partner valued  at £360,000 with 
mortgages of £320,000. She has confirmed that she had not invested before  she made the 
investment in Harlequin. 
So Mrs H would clearly  not have appeared  to be an individual  who would  know what  she was doing. 
GFC should have taken this into account, particularly given the nature of the entire  undertaking. I will 
discuss this further later in this decision.
In my view Mrs H was entitled to believe  that GFC was looking after her interests in recommending  
the SIPP  to be used and that the pension  transfer was appropriate for her. Given that I do not believe 
the SIPP  arrangement can be considered properly  execution only,  GFC should have  obtained 
sufficient information to ascertain if the pension transfer  to the SIPP was appropriate and suitable. It 
did not do so and if it had I believe it would  have  been  clear  that it was not appropriate. 
GFC was aware that most of the pension value was a transfer from Mrs Hs OPS, which  was a local 
government final salary (defined benefit) pension  scheme. There were no warnings  or assessment 
provided about the benefits she was giving  up, such as a guaranteed  increasing income and 
dependents benefits.  Given her limited  savings, experience and pension benefits,  it was very unlikely 
to be appropriate for her to transfer these benefits to a SIPP, losing these guarantees.  And GFC was 
aware that the intention was then to invest in an unregulated high risk investment. GFC would or 
should have been aware of these factors and should have advised her against the transfer. 
I would highlight:
COBS 19.1.5R 
Ref: DRN38038018If a firm arranges  a pension transfer or pension opt-out for a retail  client as an execution-only 
transaction, the firm must  make, and retain indefinitely, a clear record of the fact that no personal 
recommendation was given to that client.
As discussed, I do not believe GFC made it sufficiently clear  that it was not providing advice (if it 
wasnt) on the pension transfer.
the Harlequin investment
Im mindful that in January  2013, the Financial Services Authority  (FSA) issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have seen 
advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases we have seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will pass  
customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  
property development). When the customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment,  the 
customer is introduced  to a regulated financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does  not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to unlock  monies 
held in other investments so that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer  out of a 
current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property  investment under  a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice about  
whether the customer  should transfer into the SIPP.  If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators  to report  those 
FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make  any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation  that had not applied 
previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already  applied, and which were  in place in 2009 
when the transfer and investment took place.
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of process GFC 
carried out to facilitate  the investment. I take an independent view based on the circumstances  of the 
complaint and take into account the rules,  law and good practice in place at the time to arrive at 
decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent with general  
comments from the regulator  about this type of process  that consideration should be given when 
advice is given to transfer a SIPP, to the suitability  of the overall proposition   both SIPP  and 
investment to be taken out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being  given (or should 
have) about a SIPP to invest  in overseas property. It said that where an adviser  recommends a SIPP 
knowing that the customer will sell current investments  to fund overseas property then the suitability 
of that investment must be taken into account.   
Ref: DRN38038019I would reiterate that I do not agree that simply  because the regulators alerts  were given after GFC 
undertook the transaction that they are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight the existing 
obligations (which applied at the time this transaction took place)  when giving  advice such  as this. It 
was not setting out new standards for businesses  to follow.  
I would reiterate that I appreciate that GFC says it was not giving advice.  But as I have said it did 
recommend the SIPP to be used and I am not persuaded this was or should be deemed to be an 
execution only transaction. Given that it was giving advice  as to the SIPP  it should then have taken 
into account  the investment  of which it clearly was aware. 
It is my view that in order  to give suitable advice under COBS 9 as to the SIPP,  GFC would  have to 
take into account  the investment itself,  for which the SIPP  was created and was the reason  for the 
whole arrangement going  ahead. The SIPP advice cannot be artificially separated from the 
investment to follow. GFC has its own responsibilities when providing the advice on the SIPP to make 
sure it its responsibilities are discharged  and it cannot  simply  ignore those responsibilities.      
I agree there might be circumstances where  it is appropriate to limit the scope of advice and where 
that would not necessarily conflict with a businesss obligations to act in the best interests of its client 
and provide suitable advice. But those circumstances  do not exist here. It was not possible to provide 
suitable advice and act in Mrs Hs best interests in a situation where GFC knew the destination of the 
funds (Harlequin overseas commercial property)  and the SIPP were clearly  linked. I am not 
persuaded that GFC can limit its regulatory  obligations  in this way. If GFC felt that it could  not give 
advice on the investment based on the information it had then it should have declined to give any 
advice at all or carry out the transaction.   
in any event  should GFC have proceeded  with the transfer and investment?
There are overarching  reasons why in my view GFC should not have proceeded with this transaction  
at all or on an execution only basis. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  I am required to take into account  
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice. I am 
also required  to take into account, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
I consider that the FCAs Principles  2 and 6 are of particular relevance  to my decision about what is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general  statement of 
the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system  (PRIN  1.1.2G). Principles  2 and 6 
say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when  deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
GFC was very likely  aware that Mrs H was not an experienced or wealthy investor who was 
accustomed to entering into execution only transactions without advice. It had classified her as a retail 
client.  It was also aware that the intention was to invest in an overseas unregulated high risk 
investment where there was the potential for all the money  to be lost. Furthermore it was or should  
have been aware that most of the money for investment  derived from a final salary pension  scheme. 
Ref: DRN380380110I do not believe that GFC met its obligations under the principles  to simply arrange  the transfer of 
pension benefits  and administer the investment on an execution only basis.  It should have been 
aware that there were very extensive risks inherent in this which Mrs H was likely  not aware of. To 
simply process the transaction aware  of this information  and where  it was clear  that Mrs H did not 
have the wherewithal to likely  appreciate all the risks herself was not acting in its customers best 
interest. I do not believe  it could ignore these risks and carry out the transaction  on an execution  only 
basis. 
It should have either declined to carry out the transection or provided further guidance or advice on 
the overall arrangement of transfer, SIPP and investment.  I do not believe it acted with due care or in 
Mrs Hs interest  in accordance with Principles  2 and 6. 
the suitability of the SIPP and investment for Mrs H
  
I have previously set out why I do not believe the transfer to the SIPP was likely suitable or 
appropriate.
In terms of the Harlequin investment Mrs H has said:
We were  told this was a safe investment. We were told the SIPP providers had done
all their checks. The firm advertised in Kudos  and had famous  people advertising  for
them, such as Pat Cash and Liverpool  football club. However, we would  have never
agreed to move our pensions if we would have been told that we could loose it all.
The Harlequin  investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative overseas  property investment. It 
was high risk and the investor faced  the real possibility of losing all their money. Because it was 
unregulated Mrs H did not benefit from the protection afforded by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.   
Mrs Hs investment experience was extremely limited  and does not suggest that she was an 
experienced investor  who could appreciate all the risks of what she was doing  or would not be reliant 
on GFC to consider her best interests. She had no experience of high risk, unregulated investments. 
Mrs Hs circumstances do not indicate that she was prepared to lose all her money  or that she was 
suited to the risks this investment presented. As a result of the SIPP  investment, virtually the entirety 
of her pension funds  were  invested in Harlequin.     
The value of Mrs Hs pension funds  was modest at about £52,000. And, as discussed, this was the 
only pension savings she had. The majority of that money  was placed  in Harlequin. Placing  such a 
proportion of the value  of the pension  into one particular asset was unsuitable  because of the lack of 
any diversification. And here the money was invested in one overseas unregulated high risk asset.  
I believe it is clear that this was not a suitable investment  for Mrs H and it was not suitable to 
recommend the transfer and setting up of this SIPP  on this basis.    
did GFC cause Mrs Hs loss
Mrs H was dependent  on GFC  to act in her best interests. I do not believe she could assess this risk 
of the overall arrangement of SIPP and investing in Harlequin for herself. 
It does not seem to be disputed that Mrs H approached GFC with the Harlequin property investment. 
But that was likely a result  of a previous promotion  of that investment  to her  Mrs H had not arrived  
at this decision on her own. 
If GFC had declined to carry out the transfer and investment or advised  Mrs H that she should  not 
transfer or invest in Harlequin I think it more likely  that she would have taken account  of that and it 
would have been persuasive, coming  from a professional regulated financial adviser. I think it is more 
Ref: DRN380380111likely that she would not then have invested or transferred and these actions would have changed her 
motivation to invest in Harlequin. 
It follows that she would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, her pension  to the 
SIPP. So neither the SIPP nor the investment would  have  taken  place but for GFCs actions.  
Consequently any loss Mrs H has suffered through transferring to the SIPP and investing  in Harlequin 
has been caused by GFCs actions.    
Im aware that a party involved with Harlequin  Property has been charged with fraud offences. A court 
might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly from GFCs unsuitable advice. And on this 
basis, a court might not require  GFC to compensate Mrs H  notwithstanding the clearly unsuitable 
advice. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.  It may be there 
has been a break in the chain of causation . That might mean  it wouldnt  be fair to say that all of the 
losses suffered flowed  from the unsuitable advice. That will depend  on the particular circumstances of 
the case. No liability will arise for an adviser who has given suitable  advice even if fraud later takes 
place. But the position  is different where the consumer wouldnt have been in the investment in the 
first place without the unsuitable advice.  In that situation, it may be fair to assess  compensation on 
our usual basis  aiming to put the consumers in the position they would have been  in if theyd been 
given suitable advice.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Mrs H would  not have made the Harlequin  Property 
investment had it not been  for the failings  of GFC. And I consider that GFCs actions given by the 
adviser completely disregarded Mrs Hs interests. As a direct result of the advisers failure to give 
suitable advice, Mrs H invested her pension into a specialised, high risk, unregulated investment with 
a limited track record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold GFC responsible for the whole of the loss suffered  by 
Mrs H. I am not asking GFC to account  for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. I 
am satisfied  those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other  parties  might 
also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, 
that fact should not impact  on Mrs Hs right to compensation from GFC for the full amount of the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mrs H as close 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable  advice. 
As discussed, I think otherwise Mrs H would have kept her existing pensions. But its unlikely to be 
possible for GFC to reinstate  Mrs H into her previous pension schemes. 
There are also a number of possibilities and unknown  factors in making an award. While I understand 
Harlequin Property will allow GFC to take over the investment from Mrs H, the involvement of third 
parties  the SIPP provider and Harlequin  Property  means much  of this is beyond this service or 
GFCs control. 
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this service 
may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and unlikely that the 
contract and any future payments would be enforceable   but I cant  be certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mrs H back in the position she would  have been in if suitable  advice had 
been given, I think its fair that Mrs H is compensated now.  I dont think we should wait and determine 
each and every possibility  before making  an award. What is set out below is a fair way of achieving  
this. 
Ref: DRN380380112As I understand it one of the pensions that was transferred was an occupational final salary (defined 
benefit) plan and one was a money  purchase AVC attached to the occupational  scheme. I have set 
out fair redress on this basis.
 In summary, GFC should:
A) With respect to the final salary OPS pension, undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017 (I have set out this out in more detail  below).
B)With respect to the money  purchase AVC:
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mrs Hs previous  pension plan, as at the date of my 
final decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2.Obtain  the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of that value of Mrs Hs SIPP 
represented by the AVC, including  any outstanding charges. 
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mrs Hs SIPP so that the transfer value is 
increased by the amount  calculated. This payment  should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges.
In addition, GFC should:
4.Pay any future fees owed  by Mrs H to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each point in respect  of B (the AVC) in further detail below.
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mrs Hs previous  AVC pension  plan if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP. That should be the value at the date of this decision.
GFC should ask Mrs H's former pension provider  to calculate the notional transfer value that would  
have applied  as at the date of this decision had she not transferred her pension  but instead remained 
invested. 
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
GFC should assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made  would  still have been  
made, and on the same dates.
2Obtain  the transfer value as at the date of the decision of that value of Mrs Hs SIPP 
represented by the AVC, including  any outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure. 
3Pay an amount into Mrs Hs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the amount 
calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
Ref: DRN380380113If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, GFC should pay it as a cash  sum to Mrs H. 
But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income.  Therefore the 
total amount should be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Hs marginal  rate of tax in retirement. 
4Pay any future fees owed  to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had GFC given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mrs H continues 
to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, GFC should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest  way of 
putting Mrs H back in the position she would have been in. But the ownership of the Harlequin 
Property investment cant  currently be transferred. Its likely that will change at some point, but I dont 
know when that will be  there  are a number of uncertainties.  
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that GFC pays Mrs H an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or undertakes 
to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable  period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, GFC may ask Mrs H to provide an undertaking to give it 
the net amount  of any payment she may receive from the Harlequin Property investment in that five 
year period, as well as any other  payment  she may receive from any party as a result of the 
investment. That undertaking  should  allow  for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount she 
may receive.  GFC will need to meet  any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mrs H to 
provide an undertaking,  payment of the compensation  awarded by this decision may be dependent 
upon provision of that undertaking.  
If, after five years, GFC wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain an undertaking for any future 
payments under the Harlequin Property investment, it must agree to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If GFC fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mrs H should then have the option  of trying  to cancel  the Harlequin 
Property contract to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, GFC is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment  from Mrs H of any claim  Mrs H may 
have against any third parties in relation  to this pension  transfer and Harlequin Property investment. If 
GFC chooses  to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment  of compensation  is 
made. GFC must first provide a draft of the assignment  to Mrs H for her consideration and agreement.  
5Pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I believe this matter would have caused  significant inconvenience and upset for Mrs H and she should  
receive a payment for this. 
further guidance  as to calculation  A: 
GFC must undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision. 
Ref: DRN380380114GFC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mrs 
Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require GFC to pay Mrs H compensation as set out above,  up to 
a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mrs H within 
90 days of the date GFC receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation  amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes GFC to pay Mrs 
H this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I also recommend  that GFC pays Mrs H the balance. I further recommend interest to be added  to this 
balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes GFC to pay 
Mrs H from the date it receives notification of her acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
If Mrs H accepts my determination, the money award  is binding on GFC. My recommendation is not 
binding on GFC. 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs H can accept my determination  and go to court  to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing to her after the money award has been paid. Mrs H may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint and intend to order  GFC to calculate and pay redress as set out above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3803801