K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company  Limited  handled a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss C complains about the way Advantage has dealt with her including that it said her car 
couldnt be recovered only to reverse that once she had arranged  it herself. She also says 
there was a delay  in her being  given  a courtesy  car, she wasnt  kept updated and a renewal 
document contained incorrect information. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
Advantage confirmed  that the fees of its recovery agent to collect  Miss Cs car are 
included in her claim  and there was no additional  cost to her.
Advantage also confirmed errors occurred in its handling of Miss Cs claim. These led 
to her being without  a courtesy car for 12 days.  It is also evident she wasnt kept 
updated. Advantage has offered  a compensation payment of £250 for its poor 
handling of the claim.  This includes a payment  towards  the lack of a courtesy car 
which wed value at £10 a day and something for the distress and inconvenience  
caused. Thats fair. 
The renewal documentation wasnt entirely correct. But despite this the actual quote 
was correct. And Miss C had the option of going elsewhere if she remained unhappy  
with the quote.  
The claim has been correctly recorded as a fault one. This isnt dependent  on 
whether Miss C was at fault for the incident.  It rather reflects  that Advantage hasnt 
recovered all of its costs.
Overall its clear  Advantage  couldve done better. But its offer of £250  compensation 
is fair. And he will not be asking it to do anything more.
Miss C remains  unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She doesnt think £250  
is enough compensation for what has happened. She says Advantage didnt  provide  any 
customer service  to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage accepts  it couldve handled  Miss Cs claim  better in some respects. And it has 
offered her a total of £250  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. This 
also includes  compensation for her not having a courtesy car for 12 days. Miss C says this 
isnt enough for what she has experienced. So, all that remains is for me to consider whether 
this is a fair and reasonable offer.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a claim on a policy, a complaint and putting  things  right.  We wouldnt generally 
Ref: DRN37811802recommend theyre  compensated for this. But in this case  Miss C was clearly  caused more 
than the normal  level of inconvenience  dealing with Advantage. She wasnt  kept updated, 
her renewal documentation contained  errors and Advantage accepts its poor service led to 
her being  without a courtesy car for 12 days.
Wed normally value  the lack of a courtesy  car at £10 a day. Advantage has also offered £30 
for the incorrect renewal  information. That means its also offered £100  compensation for 
any additional distress  and inconvenience Miss C has experienced.
Taking everything into account,  including the levels of award  we make,  I think these amounts 
of compensation  totalling £250, are fair for the distress and inconvenience Miss C has 
experienced. I realise she would like more but taking everything into account, including  the 
levels of award we make, I dont think I can reasonably require Advantage to offer or pay any 
more. 
  
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Cs frustration, I think  the investigators proposed 
resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. And I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.  I simply leave it to Miss C to now decide, if she 
hasnt already done so, whether she wants to accept Advantages offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3781180