K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2001. Mrs C says Canada Square  Operations Limited  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs C case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Canada Square made  it clear  that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand  why she cant  remember this. The 
PPI was taken out online during her credit  card application,  and she had to pick a yes or 
no option to show  if she wanted it. 
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong.  Although she had some sick pay and savings  the 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of this and for longer.  So she couldve used her sick pay and 
savings for other things. Although her friends and family may have  been  able to help  
that wouldnt  have  been guaranteed. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs C.
But Canada Square will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN32195582what the business needs  to do
Canada Square  has to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Canada Square  should  also pay back  to Mrs C any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Canada Square  should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mrs C the difference  
between what Mrs C owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Canada  Square should also pay Mrs C 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3219558