K820x#14complaint
Mr I complaints that MS Amlin Insurance SE (MSAI) has treated him unfairly  in the way it 
handled his insurance claim, and by not settling the claim based on the information he has 
provided.
background
Mr I entered into a rental agreement with a business who provide rental  storage space in 
2017. For the purposes of this decision I will call them  Company A.  And at the same time 
he took out a MSAI insurance policy, which amongst other things,  covered  him against the 
risk of theft. 
In January 2019, Mr I says his unit had been  broken  into and his personal possessions 
stolen. After reporting the matter to the Police  and obtaining a crime reference  number, Mr I 
made a claim under  his MSAI policy. 
MSAI processed Mr Is claim and made him a settlement offer. At that point Mr I submitted 
further items  that he says were stolen and that he wanted to be included in the claim. 
In February 2019,  MSAI instructed a third-party  investigator to interview Mr I about the theft.  
It also asked Company A for its internal records to show  when Mr I accessed the storage 
unit.  
On 12 March 2019, MSAI wrote to Mr I to set-out its position on validating Mr Is claim. In 
summary MSAI  said:  
it had identified several inconsistencies with the claim and as a result now required 
further documentation;
Company As access logs showed  Mr I last visited the unit in September  2017, and 
there was no further record of him accessing  the unit including the day he says he 
discovered the break-in;
Mr I hasnt provided sufficient information from public transport records  to show he 
had visited the storage  unit during  the time of the break-in and before;
Mr I hasnt been able to provide it with proof of purchase for any of the items hes 
claiming for;
so its been  unable to validate  Mr Is claim and asked him again  for evidence to 
enable it to do so
Unhappy with the way he was treated Mr I complained to MSAI  - in summary he said:  
he had visited his storage unit, but he didnt know he had to use his access code as 
on some  occasions he met other customers going to the same  floor as him;
Company A ought to have CCTV footage of his visit on the day he discovered  the 
break-in;
that he had paid in cash for some of the goods that were stolen, and others  were  
gifted to him;
he didnt think his possessions would ever be stolen, so he never kept records  or 
receipts. But he could  show he withdrew  cash to pay for them;
he has been passed from one insurance  company to another  and some  of the 
expressions made towards  him have  been offensive;
Ref: DRN33928902MSAI  havent updated Mr I unless  he has asked;
His claim wasnt taken seriously as the appointed investigator  met him for the 
interview in a public place;
The public transport  company doesnt  keep records after eight weeks have elapsed 
from the travel;
The policy doesnt stipulate he needs  to access  the storage unit a certain number of 
times;
Company A fixed the burglary damage  before the Police could investigate it:
He has found  the whole matter,  including the way the claim has been handled, 
distressing
MSAI wrote to Mr I again in April 2019.  In summary, and in addition  what  it had said earlier, 
MSAI made the following  points: 
Mr Is bank records were insufficient  to validate  the claim. And there were no similar 
high-end purchases  in line with the goods he was claiming for;
Mr I wasnt  obligated to visit the storage unit frequently. But that MSAI has concerns 
there is no documented access to the unit specifically for the period Mr I has said he 
placed the items in the unit and when they were  stolen;
He hasnt been able to provide reasonable evidence showing he travelled to the unit;
Mr Is claim was denied
In May 2019, MSAI sent its final response  to Mr I. In short,  MSAI said the further  enquires  it 
had made  had been justified and the tone of its communications had been appropriate. And 
it wouldnt be asking the claims team to issue a payment. But as the claim had been 
outstanding longer than it considered reasonable, it offered Mr I £75 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Unhappy with what MSAI said, Mr I referred  his complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
looked into the matter, and they didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. Broadly  they said:  
Mr I was passed from one company to another because MSAI  referred  the claim for 
investigation;
As Mr I amended his claim, MSAI was entitled to reinvestigate it;
That Mr I hadnt provided  enough  evidence to validate his claim;
The location of the interview  wasnt the investigators choice;
MSAIs offer of £75 for the delay and lack of updates was fair
Unhappy with what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to a 
similar conclusion  to our investigator for the pretty much the same reasons. I know  this will 
disappoint Mr I, so Ill explain why. 
Proof of ownership  and further investigation
I have looked  closely at the summary  of the insurance policy conditions MSAI have given to 
me. And I note its says: 
Ref: DRN339289035.Basis of valuation..In the event of a total loss or destruction  of an insured item, the 
basis of valuation shall be the actual value of the insured good at time of the loss always 
limited to the replacement  value and/or insured value whichever is the lowest  
Ive also found  the website which contains  the keyfacts for this policy and it also has similar 
wording for the valuation  section. I think these terms are important in determining this 
complaint, thats  because  MSAI is entitled  to get information relevant to the purchase of 
Mr Is stolen items to determine  the value of them. 
Its also general insurance practice  for a policyholder to have to prove their claim by 
providing appropriate proof of ownership.  So Im satisfied  that MSAI has done nothing  wrong  
in asking Mr I to give it enough information to validate the claim. It is, as Ive said,  entitled  to 
do this. 
I note Mr I says that he purchased some of the items with cash,  and some  of them were 
gifted to him. But I dont  think  it was unreasonable for MSAI  not to accept his bank 
statements as proof of purchase  given they only showed cash withdrawals. Mr I has 
otherwise not been able to provide anything else to show he owned the goods. 
That brings me onto the question of whether MSAI acted fairly when it decided to further 
investigate Mr Is claim given it had at one point looked to settle  the matter with him. 
Mr I added other high value items onto his claim after MSAI  made  him an offer. This in turn 
led to MSAI asking a few more questions both to Company A and to Mr I. It also instructed a 
third-party investigator to interview Mr I.
Company A provided MSAI with records of access to the storage facility based on Mr Is 
security credentials. Ive seen these  and they show no access  records after 2017. I also note 
that given the time that elapsed Mr I couldnt  get records from the public  transport company 
he used to get to the storage facility. 
Mr I has said that other customers would let him in, and its not his fault that records of his 
journeys are no longer retrievable.  But I think these  two avenues of investigation only 
ensued because of Mr I adding new items  to his claim which  in turn alerted MSAI to look into 
matter more. And by doing, so I dont think MSAI has done  anything wrong. 
Im satisfied it was a reasonable course of action for MSAI to investigate the claim in more 
detail and ask for more  information. 
Mr I has suggested Company A provide  its CCTV footage to help show his storage unit was 
broken into and his possessions  stolen.  Unfortunately  that footage is not available. In any 
case, MSAI  isnt contesting a theft happened, just that Mr I validate  his loss. For that reason 
I dont think what Mr I says about Company A repairing  the damage done  to the unit before 
the Police could  investigate  it makes any difference. 
Claim handling and customer service 
Mr I has made a number of points related to this which Ive detailed above.  Firstly,  I dont 
think MSAI have done anything wrong by instructing a third-party  company  to investigate 
and interview Mr I. Ive explained  above  why I think MSAI acted reasonably  when looking 
into the claim more. 
Ref: DRN33928904In terms of the way the claim was handled,  having looked at all the information  both parties  
have given me, I havent seen anything that makes me think  MSAI have done  anything that 
is offensive.  
I note MSAI have offered to pay Mr I £75 for the trouble  and upset the delays in processing 
the claim had caused him and for the lack of updates it had given. I dont think  MSAI  needs 
to do anymore. 
So, after weighing everything up, Im persuaded that MSAI has acted fairly and reasonably  in 
asking Mr I to provide proof of ownership  and value of the goods he claims for. And that 
MSAI havent done anything wrong in further investigating the matter  after Mr I said he had 
lost more items than he originally accounted for. 
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021. 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3392890