K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Equifax Limited reported  wrong information on her credit file. 
background
Miss M has an account with a company (that Ill call Company A) that gives  her access  to 
her credit file. When Miss M checked  her credit  file, she noticed Equifax had recorded that 
she had a financial link with someone  she didnt know. She also noticed that her mortgage 
account hadnt been included on her file. 
Miss M brought this to Equifaxs attention, and it removed the financial link. However, it 
thought the missing mortgage account from her file was down to her mortgage provider and 
advised Miss M to get it touch with them.  
After Miss M spoke  with her mortgage provider,  it confirmed  that it was reporting on her 
mortgage account each month. Miss M told Equifax  this. 
Miss M then received an alert from Company A that she was close  to a limit on a credit  card 
she didnt have. After  receiving a postal report,  she found out that Equifax had included 
entries for a family member on her credit file. After  Miss M told Equifax about this, there were  
some delays in removing the information  from her file. 
Miss M says that because  of Equifaxs errors,  she delayed making  credit  and finance 
applications. Equifax  apologised for the errors  and offered her £200 compensation. Miss M 
didnt think this was enough, and so brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought Miss M had been 
financially disadvantaged as a result of Equifaxs errors, as she had delayed  making  an 
interest-free credit card application until the issues were resolved. She recommended 
Equifax pay a further £46.62 to compensate  Miss M for the interest shed  incurred on her 
credit card as a result of the delay.  
Neither party agreed with our investigators  recommendations,  so the matter has been  
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
On 7 February 2018, Miss M told Equifax that her credit report  contained a financial link to 
someone she didnt  know. Equifax has confirmed that the financial link had been there since 
2000, and it didnt know which lender created the link. Equifax removed the link on 15 
February 2018, just over a week after Miss M made  it aware of the link. I think this was an 
appropriate response. 
Miss M noticed on her credit file held with Company  A that her mortgage account  wasnt  
shown on there. Equifax  has since confirmed the mortgage account was showing on its own 
records held for Miss M. It seems the reason  it wasnt showing on Miss Ms account with 
Company A was because she hadnt updated  her address with that company. I see that 
Ref: DRN31325292Equifax told Miss M on 19 February 2018 that shed need to update her address with 
Company A. Im therefore satisfied  Equifax  didnt  do anything wrong here. 
Miss M received an alert from Company A that she was nearing  her limit for a credit  card she 
didnt hold. She then found out that Equifax had recorded searches and credit  information 
relating to one of Miss Ms family members on her file. 
I note that Miss M told Equifax about this problem on 15 February 2018, however Equifax 
wasnt able to remove the association with Miss Ms family member until 26 March 2018.  
Miss M didnt see confirmation  of this until she obtained her postal report on 1 April 2018. 
Equifax apologised for this and offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to 
Miss M. 
Miss M has explained the worry  and inconvenience she was caused as a result of Equifaxs  
error. Shes also unhappy with the number  of phone calls she had to make to Equifax to get 
the matter resolved, and that she had to chase Equifax for responses. 
I accept that Miss M was caused inconvenience due to Equifaxs  error, but Im satisfied the 
£200 compensation it has offered  reflects this. 
Miss M also says that she delayed  making credit  applications until the matter  was resolved. I 
think that was understandable.  She was concerned that having another  persons credit 
information recorded against her credit file may impact her when applying for credit. 
Miss M has said she delayed the following: a mortgage application to switch  products; taking  
out an interest-free  credit  card to transfer her existing credit  card balance; and finance  for a 
new car. However, she has since confirmed that the delay didnt have a financial impact  on 
her mortgage account, or car finance.  But it did mean that she delayed  applying for an 
interest-free credit card. 
Miss M has confirmed that once  Equifax had removed  her family members details from her 
credit file, she took out an interest-free  credit  card and transferred her existing credit card 
balance. Shes provided statements which show the credit  card interest she incurred in 
February and March 2018  this amounted to £46.62.
Equifax says it cant be assumed that if a lender had carried  out a credit  check at the time, 
that Miss M wouldnt have  met their lending  criteria. I agree we cant assume  this, but I still 
think it was understandable why Miss M chose  to delay making credit applications at the 
time. 
Overall, I think it would be appropriate for Equifax  to cover the £46.62  interest applied to 
Miss Ms credit card as a result of her delaying her application for an interest-free credit  card,  
as this was financial  loss that she incurred  as a result of Equifaxs error. Given that Miss M 
transferred her credit card balance to an interest-free  credit  card soon after, I would assume 
this included the £46.62  applied to her account.  I therefore dont require Equifax to pay 
interest on this amount.  
Miss M also raised  concerns with Equifax about  a potential data breach as it had sent her 
financial information for her family member. Equifax didnt think  there had been  a data 
breach. 
Ref: DRN31325293Its not our role to decide whether theres been a breach of data protection laws  thats  the 
role of the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO). I understand Miss M is raising  the 
matter with them directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Equifax Limited to pay Miss M a 
further £46.62 compensation  in addition to the £200  already offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3132529