K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mr H1 complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr H and Mr H1 applied for PPI in 1990 when they applied for some  extra  borrowing on their 
mortgage account to pay for some home improvements.
The policy provided  Mr H with cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr H and Mr H1 took out another further advance on their mortgage  later on  but they didnt 
take any more  PPI. So Im looking at the PPI sold to them in 1990. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  this complaint. Mr H and Mr H1 disagree with 
our adjudicators view.  Their main complaint is that Mr H felt pressured into taking out the 
PPI in order to obtain  the home  improvement loan being applied for  even  though they dont 
feel PPI was needed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr H and Mr H1s case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr H and Mr H1s complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Although the PPI policy just covered Mr H the mortgage was in joint names.  So Ive looked 
carefully at both their circumstances when the policy was taken out. 
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mr H and Mr H1 to remember exactly what  was discussed  when 
they took out PPI so long ago. So what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold their complaint.  I have to take into account  everything Ive seen and been told and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
On balance, I think Bradford & Bingley made  Mr H and Mr H1 aware that the PPI was 
optional and they chose to have  it. I say this because Mr H and Mr H1s mortgage had 
already been running for some time without  PPI. So I dont think they wouldve had any 
reason to think that having PPI was a requirement  of the borrowing. 
The loan paperwork they signed offered Mr H and Mr H1 the option of saying that cover was 
not required if they didnt want PPI. They indicated  on their signed home improvement loan 
application that they did want  PPI. 
Theyve also filled in a separate PPI application where theyve selected the type of cover 
they wanted and filled in boxes showing the amount of cover required.  
Ref: DRN30160522So, although  I cant say exactly  what was discussed at the meeting I think  the paperwork 
made it clear  that PPI was optional. And even if they werent both at the meeting when their 
loan was discussed, Mr H and Mr H1 wouldve both been able to see that it was up to them 
to say if they wanted PPI. And they chose the level of cover and amount of benefit they 
wanted for Mr H.   
Bradford & Bingley  says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H and Mr H1 - but it still had to 
make sure it told them enough about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to buy it. 
I think, broadly  speaking,  it did - and where it mightnt have done, better information wouldnt 
have made  a difference.  
As Mr H was the main  earner I can see why Mr H and Mr H1 wouldve wanted to protect  his 
income. I think its likely  that they might  soon have risked facing some financial  difficulty 
making their monthly mortgage repayments  if he wasnt working.
Bradford & Bingley  told us that before March 1991,  their PPI policy wouldve paid out for as 
long as Mr H wasnt able to work  if he was affected by accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
But the only policy document it has sent me shows that cover  was limited  to 24 months per 
claim. So, to be as fair as possible to Mr H and Mr H1, and based  on the information I've 
seen, I've looked at their complaint on the basis  that the policy  they wouldve been able to 
rely on couldve paid out for up to 24 months  per claim.   
Mr H was eligible for the policy and I think that Mr H and Mr H1 couldve benefitted from him 
having cover. I say this because Mr H told us he wouldve received no sick pay. But as the 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  in the event of a successful claim if he was off 
work as a result of accident or sickness it offered useful  protection in these circumstances.
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. The policy  wouldve also paid out for up 
to 24 months if Mr H lost his job unexpectedly  and he was out of work.  
I dont know if Mr H and Mr H1 wouldve always had savings they could rely on if theyd  
needed to make a claim. And having PPI wouldve meant they could keep savings intact  to 
spend on things  they were  saving for or to provide financial security  for the future. 
So, looking  at Mr H and Mr H1s circumstances at the time, I think  the policy gave  them 
worthwhile benefits.  
Its possible  some information Bradford & Bingley  gave Mr H and Mr H1 about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the policy  
exclusions or limitations. So I think it unlikely that having better information about the PPI 
wouldve put Mr H and Mr H1 off having the cover. 
On balance, I think Mr H and Mr H1 were  given enough information to make  a properly 
informed decision.  They chose the cover  they wanted for Mr H when they had the option to 
decline PPI. I dont  know how well Bradford & Bingley explained what  the PPI would cost  
but they chose  to take it out when they couldve said No to having PPI - so they do seem to 
have wanted PPI at the time.  And Ive seen  nothing that suggests it wasnt  affordable  for 
them. 
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mr H and Mr H1 lost out as a result of anything 
Bradford & Bingley  did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN30160523my decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H1 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3016052