K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined his home  
insurance claim.
background
Mr K noticed  some  issues with the flooring by his french doors  in May 2018. He arranged  for 
a surveyor to come and inspect the area.  The surveyor said there was evidence  of attack by 
Wet Rot Fungi to the majority of the existing wooden  flooring and supporting  timbers.  The 
report said that the external survey showed visible cracks in the rear elevation  below the 
french doors, which could  be causing  water ingress.  The internal survey  reported the sub-
floor area was visibly  damp  without  ventilation and there were  signs  of water  ingress  in the 
brick work around the french doors. It stated the supporting floor timbers  in this area had 
completely rotted through. On receiving this report Mr K contact RSA to put in a claim.
RSA reviewed Mr Ks claim and sent out its own surveyor  to review the damage.  It declined  
the claim as it said there was no insured  peril and that damage due to rot was excluded  by 
his policy.
Mr K disagreed. He explained there  was severe  weather  at the end of February/beginning of 
March 2018. He said this meant snow built up around the french doors, which then turned to 
ice and caused damage to the brick work. So he said this storm was the insured peril he was 
claiming for, as it had caused the cracks  which allowed water to ingress  and damage his 
flooring. RSA didnt  agree  to pay the claim as it said there wasnt  a storm in May 2018, so 
Mr K brought his case  to our service.
Mr K had a builder attend his home  to provide us with further evidence.  The builder said that 
the cracks  on either side of the french doors had been caused  by weight/pressure. He said 
the weight had caused dents, which in turn had caused the cracks. The builder also said that 
the ventilation  was sufficient and typical for a property of that type and age. 
Our investigator didnt  agree with RSA that there hadnt been a storm. He said he was 
persuaded by Mr Ks evidence that there had been a storm and that the damage present 
couldve been the result  of the storm. However he said he also thought the damage couldve 
occurred without the storm, so he didnt uphold  the case.
RSA still didnt agree there had been a storm, but accepted other points in the assessment. 
Mr K disagreed with the assessment, so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has explained he told RSA the age of his property and paid an increased premium  
because of his propertys age. Due to this he considers RSA accepted the risk his property 
posed. I accept  this, as its likely the increased premium was due because  if a successful 
claim occurred  RSA acknowledged it may need  to do more  when carrying  out repairs,  such 
as some modernisation. But I cant see that RSA has disputed this or the risk it accepted. 
Instead, it has said Mr K hasnt shown an insured peril/event occurred. 
Ref: DRN38538652Insurance unfortunately doesnt  cover everything that could happen to a home. In order  to 
successfully claim  on his policy,  Mr K has to first show that the damage hes claiming for has 
been caused by an insured peril or event. So Ive looked at the evidence  available  to see if 
hes done this.
The insured  event Mr K says occurred is a storm. In situations where  someone  is trying  to 
claim for storm  damage  we ask three  questions  and it is only if the answer to each of these 
questions is most likely yes that we say a claim for storm damage should be considered.  
The questions are:
1. was there a storm on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. was the storm the main cause of the damage?
was there  a storm?
Mr Ks policy  doesnt specifically define what a storm  or storm conditions are. So Ive 
considered the weather around  the time his claim occurred to decide.
RSA has agreed to consider the weather in February/March  2018, rather than May 2018. But 
it doesnt consider  a storm  occurred due to the level of wind and rain recorded  by the 
weather stations near Mr K at this time.  However our investigator  considered  that the 
snowfall combined  with the wind and the temperatures would constitute a storm.
Ive reviewed the evidence available from both the weather reports  RSA provided  and the 
news articles from Mr K. While I accept  RSAs point that the media can be prone to 
sensationalism, Im also aware  that the area Mr K lived in was affected by two named storms 
during the period of time in question, with the particular emphasis  on these storms bringing 
severely low temperatures and snowfall. On that basis,  I think  there is enough evidence in 
this case to conclude  there was a storm in Mr Ks area.
is the damage consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
RSA has said the damage  isnt consistent with a storm  as snow  hasnt been evidenced as 
causing the cracks.  However I dont consider this point answers the question.  The actual 
cause of the damage is a separate consideration to whether  or not the damage could be 
consistent with storm damage.
The damage in this case is cracking to brickwork  and subsequent water  ingress,  as well as 
damp and rotten flooring.  From my experience, a storm involving snowfall where 
temperatures remained below freezing for several  days could have caused this type of 
damage to a property.  So I consider the damage  is consistent with what a storm could 
cause.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ive reviewed the letter Mr K provided  from his builder in relation to the ground  level and 
property ventilation. The builder has confirmed that the ventilation is sufficient and typical  for 
a property of that age.  But he doesnt state that the older style ventilation  isnt causing  
problems to the home. As Mr K has said, it wouldnt meet current regulations  and both his 
surveyor and RSAs  consider that in order to remedy the damage new ventilation does need 
Ref: DRN38538653to be installed.  RSA has said it considers the poor ventilation is the cause of the damage,  
not a storm. So Ive reviewed the evidence available to see if it supports this.
Mr Ks surveyor has stated that there are cracks to the wall in the rear elevation  below the 
french doors. However  his builder identified cracks and dents in the wall either side of the 
french doors. So the evidence Ive been  presented  with seems to suggest  that there multiple 
cracks in the wall. As part of the report, to remedy the damage, the surveyor has said that 
the cause of the water ingress would  need to be identified. So they didnt identify the cause 
as part of their survey.  However the builder considered the cracks he saw were down to 
weight/pressure. Mr K has explained the snow would be the cause of this weight; however 
the builder hasnt said this.
RSA has proposed that the poor ventilation has caused the flooring and floor joists to 
become damp and subsequently rot. Its said this weakened the joists,  causing pressure on 
the outside wall as it was no longer properly supported. This has caused visible  cracking, 
leading to additional water  ingress,  exacerbating the damp and rot.
Mr K has put forward an explanation  as to how the snow could have caused the damage to 
his brickwork. But he hasnt been  able to evidence that it did cause the cracking and 
subsequent damage. I find the explanation by RSA for the cause of the damage equally as 
plausible. And to evidence its argument, RSA has provided testimony from its surveyor who 
considers the damp has been  on-going over years.  Considering  the level of damage and rot 
to Mr Ks flooring this does seem possible. And while  I note that Mr Ks builder has said the 
cracks were relatively recent, as Ive set out above, he seems to be looking at different 
cracks to what Mr Ks original surveyor  noted.  So considering everything, I cant  safely  say 
that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Based on the evidence  available, I cant see that RSA is acting unfairly, as Mr K hasnt 
shown that the storm is what caused the damage to his walls and flooring. So I dont think  
RSA needs to do anything further.
I note that both RSA and our investigator  made comments about  the vegetation growing 
under Mr Ks flooring. I accept Mr Ks point that the vegetation wasnt  present originally, as 
supported by the photographs his surveyor took.  However the conclusion  reached by RSAs  
surveyor was based on the level of damage  and how damp/wet the flooring was, not only the 
presence of vegetation.  So whilst I dont agree with the investigators finding  on this point,  it 
doesnt change  the overall outcome or my reasoning  for not upholding this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Amy Osborne
Ref: DRN38538654ombudsman
Ref: DRN3853865