K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made a mistake when he paid cash  into 
his bank account.
background
Mr S paid £330 in cash to his account on Saturday  8 December 2018 to cover standing 
orders he was expecting. But on Tuesday 11 December  2018 he found  he could not make 
purchases from his account. He went back to the same branch and was told that due a 
technical issue his cash had not been  credited. The money shows  as being credited to his 
account later that day. He complained and NatWest waived an overdraft charge for him 
being over his limit and the additional interest. It paid him £20 in compensation. Mr S does 
not think that this is sufficient and is also unhappy  that NatWests  final response letter to him 
had the wrong  postcode.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that NatWest  do anything further than it had already. 
NatWest had responded quickly to his complaint and paid Mr S £20 to compensate him for 
the inconvenience. It had offered to cover  any expenses  that had been caused  if he could 
provide evidence of these. There  was nothing to suggest that his credit record  had been  
affected. The final response letter had reached Mr S and NatWest said it would be updating 
the postcode in its records.
Mr S did not agree.  He provided  copies of invoices for his company  which  showed that it 
billed for his time at 55 US dollars  per hour. He said in addition to the stress and 
inconvenience of the unauthorised withdrawal there was his wasted time to account  for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence Ive seen this money  was never  first credited to the account  of Mr S when 
it should have  been. So there was no unauthorised withdrawal  as Mr S thinks.  NatWest  did 
not process the credit due to a technical  error. The important standing order payments for  
Mr S were  still made.  But these took his account  over his agreed  overdraft  limit. And he 
found out about that when he tried to make a purchase for £4.50 on 11 December 2018.  
After his visit to the branch that day the money  was credited to him.
In an email to this service  Mr S said that he then went to the branch the day after that, called 
NatWest about it twice and, as well as referring  this to out service, has contacted  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. After speaking with us he then contacted NatWest again.
The issue  I need to consider is whether the compensation paid to Mr S is fair. The money 
has been credited  and any interest and charges waived. I have not been  given any evidence  
to show that his credit record has been  affected or of any out of pocket expenses for him.
But Mr S clearly wants an award for his time. He mentioned he wants ten times the amount 
of compensation  offered. In order to assess this I need to look at what NatWest did when   
Mr S told it about the mistake and whether that was reasonable. And to take account  of our 
published guidelines about trouble and upset  and what Mr S has said.  Having done so I 
consider that NatWests  response to what happened  was a proportionate and fair one. In my 
Ref: DRN35743812view it adequately reflects the overall  impact  of what happened especially as NatWest  
addressed the error quickly. So I know Mr S will be disappointed  when  I take a different view 
to him about  whats reasonable  and say that I am not going to be asking NatWest  to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that National Westminster  
Bank Plc need  do not more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3574381