K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms C says American Express Services Europe Limited (American  Express)  mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
American Express had to make it clear  that Ms C didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she had 
to agree to take it out. Ms C has told us that she wasnt given a choice whether to take out 
the PPI or not. Ive been  given a copy of the credit  card application form and this includes a 
section about  PPI. In this section there is a description about the cover and a box to tick if 
PPI is required. I can see that the box has been ticked on Ms Cs form. Ms C has signed the 
form which suggests she agreed with everything that had been  entered.  If Ms C didnt want 
to take out the PPI she could have left the tick box blank.
From looking  at the application form,  I cant see anything which suggests that the PPI policy  
was compulsory or that her choice in taking  the cover would impact her application for her 
credit card.
So based  on what Ive seen and been  told, I think American Express made  it clear  the policy 
was optional and Ms C chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want it.
As this application was completed by post, American Express didnt recommend the PPI to 
Ms C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms C got 
the information she needed  to decide for herself if the policy  was right for her.
Ms C has said that the cover wasnt explained to her  so she wasnt given enough information 
about the policy. Its possible the information American  Express gave Ms C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking the box on 
the application form - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen 
of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But American Express will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because:
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms C about that. Because American Express 
didnt tell Ms C, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN34261502To put that right, American  Express has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
American Express has to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. American Express  should also pay back to Ms C 
any extra  interest  she paid because of that.
American Express should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms C the 
difference between  what  Ms C owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. American Express  should  
also pay Ms C 8%* simple  interest  if she paid off her credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Ms C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American Express Services  Europe Limited does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But American Express Services Europe Limited  does have to pay back to Ms C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3426150