K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks and shouldnt have agreed to lend him three  loans as he couldnt pay 
them back.
background
Mr G took out a short term loan and 2 instalment loans between  September 2014 and 
September 2015. A summary of his borrowing is as follows; 
Loan NumberBorrowing 
DateInstalments Loan Amount Highest  
monthly  
repayment
1 16/09/2014 1 250 337.38
2 13/06/2015 3 400 173.88
3 02/09/2015 3 650 310.61
Mr G initially took out loan 1 as a short term loan to be repaid in 1 repayment. But after this 
loan had been arranged, Mr G changed this to repay  the amount owed over 3 instalments. 
All 3 loans have  been repaid.
Uncle Buck  says it took into consideration Mr Gs monthly income, his expenditure and 
carried out a credit search when it assessed his loan applications. It says Mr G had enough 
disposable income and could afford the loans.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be partly  upheld. She said the checks  Uncle  Buck 
carried out for loans  1-2 were proportionate and affordable for Mr G. She said for loan 3 that 
Uncle Buck  hadnt  carried  out sufficient checks. She initially  didnt have enough information 
to conclude that this would  have  been unaffordable for Mr G.
At a later date, Mr G provided further  information  and so our adjudicator provided a second  
view where she drew  the same conclusions  about  Uncle Bucks checks. In addition,  after 
seeing the information provided, she thought loan 3 wasnt affordable or sustainable and that 
Mr G shouldnt have been granted it. Our adjudicator  also made suggestions  for Uncle  Buck 
to put things right for loan 3.
Uncle Buck  hasnt responded to this second view so as both parties  still cant agree, this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Uncle Buck, at the time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mr G would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN30235392oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr G would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Gs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Uncle Buck act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Uncle Buck did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether      
Mr G could afford to pay back the loans  before  it lent to him. Those checks  needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck  had to do.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  about Mr Gs income and expenditure and did a credit check. It 
says it relied on the information he gave.
I think the checks Uncle Buck carried out on loans 1 and 2 went  far enough. He was a new 
customer and the repayments for these loans were  relatively small compared  to his 
disposable income. The loan repayments appeared affordable on the information Uncle 
Buck had available.  I dont think  it would have seen anything that would have alerted it to 
carry out any further checks at this stage and from the information it had I think  it would have 
seen that these 2 loans  were affordable for Mr G.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the checks  Uncle Buck carried  out on loan 3 were not 
sufficient as it should have been  finding out about Mr Gs other  short term loans as well as 
his income and expenditure and I dont  know that it did this. 
If it had done this, it would have seen  he had a number of other payday loans on top of his 
expenditure. And when these additional amounts  are considered  alongside Mr Gs normal  
living costs,  it shows he had no disposable income for loan 3. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Uncle Buck has shown its checks for loan 3 was 
sufficient or proportionate  given the amounts borrowed. I consider proportionate checks 
would have shown  Uncle Buck that Mr G couldnt  afford to repay the loan. On balance  I dont  
think loan 3 shouldve  been granted. So Uncle Buck should put right what  it did wrong.
putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have agreed to give Mr G loan 3. So Uncle Buck  should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to loan 3. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to these amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN30235393my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3023539