K821x#15complaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him. He says the lending has had 
a detrimental impact on his life  he got into a spiral of debt and now cant get any further 
borrowing to repay  his outstanding loans. 
background
This complaint is about seven short-term loans  MYJAR provided to Mr D between 
February 2017 and September  2018.  Mr Ds borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 07/02/2017 28/03/2017 3    £300.00
2 02/05/2017 22/05/2017 6    £450.00
3 26/05/2017 29/01/2018 12  £1500.00
4 02/12/2018 27/02/2018 3    £225.00
5 28/02/2018 19/07/2018 12  £2175.00
6 21/09/2018 28/09/2017 6    £450.00
7 30/09/2018 Outstanding 12  £2225.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ds complaint. MYJAR had already offered to uphold  loan 
one and the adjudicator  further recommended that loans five to seven shouldnt have been 
given. 
With the exception  of its offer for loan one, MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role of 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN37917092the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.  After  doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Neither party disagreed with our adjudicators opinion  that loans two to four shouldnt be
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr D had with MYJAR  and Ive taken this into account when considering  the 
other loans  he took.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Mr D:
was having  problems with managing his money.  I say this because  there  was quick 
uptake by Mr D for further borrowing once he had repaid a previous loan. Loan three 
was taken out only four days after loan two was repaid. And loan four was taken out 
less than two weeks  after loan three  had been  repaid. Loan five was taken  out the 
next day after loan four was repaid on 27 February  2018.  And the amount borrowed 
with loan five had significantly increased more  than threefold from loan four to 
£1,500. 
I also note that for loans one to four Mr D repaid these  early  sometimes within  days  
of taking them out. I appreciate it saved Mr D interest charges because  of the early 
repayment but it could have been an indication that Mr D was borrowing further to 
repay current debt. 
Ref: DRN37917093Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR  ought to have realised Mr D was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr D had been indebted to MYJAR for 19 months. So MYJAR  
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr D was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ds first loan was for £300 and loan six was for £2,175.  At this point MYJAR 
ought to have known that Mr D was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing  need.  
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loan seven 
was taken out 19 months after Mr Ds first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr D had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to MYJAR over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr D borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loans five to seven and 
MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do (I have  included  loan one for 
completeness) 
If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Ds loan  loan seven  has been  transferred to a third 
party, MYJAR should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant  buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN37917094C) Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr D as though they had been  repayments 
of the principal on all outstanding loans.  
If this results  in Mr D having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Mr D. However, if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mr D. 
E) Remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to one and 
five. The number  of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about  loans six and seven  should  be 
removed from Mr Ds credit file. 
MYJAR does not have  to remove outstanding loans  loan seven  from Mr Ds credit 
file until this have  been repaid, but any adverse  information recorded about  this loan 
should still be removed.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3791709