K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy with how MCE  Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim made  for 
his stolen motorbike.  
background 
Mr L came  home from work and parked his bike as usual in the residential,  gated, car 
parking facility. He chained  his motorbike but didnt  engage the steering lock. He woke  on 5 
July 2017 to find the bike had been stolen. He reported the matter  to the police who 
explained a number of vehicles had been  stolen from,  in the same  area that night. 
Mr L submitted a claim under his insurance policy. The matter  was investigated but 
ultimately, Mr L withdrew his claim. This is because the insurer  said Mr L had mispresented 
that the motorbike  was kept in a concrete  garage  when it had in fact been a car park situated 
under the flats. This meant additional excesses  were applied  and an additional cost for 
handling the claim. It also said Mr L had indicated he had an alarm or other security device 
for the bike which turned out to not be true. So it added a 15% premium. This all meant  that 
because of the value of Mr Ls bike, the claim was actually in negative equity. 
Mr L asked for the claim to be looked at again  but was told if the claim was re-opened it 
would exclude  the claim as Mr L hadnt  engaged the steering lock. Mr L complained  but 
didnt hear an outcome  and so the matter was referred to our office. Our investigator upheld  
the complaint  because:
She wasnt persuaded Mr L had misrepresented where his bike was kept overnight  
as there  was no option on the application  for underground residential car park and 
concrete garage  was the nearest fit. 
Mr L didnt say he had an alarm  but did say he had another  security device which he 
did  and so there was no misrepresentation. 
She didnt think it was fair to apply the additional  excesses or premium so asked 
MCE to reconsider the claim accordingly.  She also asked MCE to refund the 
remaining premium for the policy, pay £300  for loss of use and £100 for the 
inconvenience caused by how it handled  this matter.
MCE didnt agree and has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. After  the 
matter was referred to me I asked for further information. I asked for a breakdown of the 
excess and additional  premium that had been  applied  although MCE have provided a total 
it hasnt provided the breakdown I asked for - it hasnt shown how an excess  of £550 has 
been reached. I also noted that reference  to the steering lock not being engaged had been 
referred to and I asked  for evidence from MCE to show  that this had had a material impact 
on the motorbike  being stolen. In response, it has provided an explanation  for the inclusion 
of the term only.
I issued my provisional decision upholding this complaint  on 5 March  2019. Mr L said he 
accepted my findings. MCE  disagreed.  In summary it said:
The investigator said the motorbike was parked in an underground  car park.  Mr L 
could have selected car park from the list of areas  where the motorbike was to be 
kept. 
The steering  lock not being engaged was material to the bike being stolen. Thieves 
are often  equipped with bolt cutters used  to break chains and disc locks with ease 
Ref: DRN37744452which is why it places  importance on the steering lock being engaged. It says its a 
first step defence  and instant deterrent to a thief as it can be seen when the lock is 
engaged. And if a thief does break a steering lock it damages the bike and so it could 
be worth  less to a thief.
It has provided a copy of the schedule and excesses (this is the same as information 
previously provided).
It is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the response to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, my findings  remain the same. 
MCE has said its regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. But thats not quite right.  
MCE is allowed to conduct  business in the UK because  it is regulated  in its home  state 
(Gibraltar) and has passported into the UK  meaning it can conduct financial services 
business here. And it joined  our voluntary jurisdiction giving us power to consider complaints  
against it. That said MCEs  response  clearly indicates it applies the principles of ICOBS.  
Mr Ls schedule policy shows the motor bike is valued at £700. But the schedule  doesnt set 
out what the excess is for theft, despite  this being  specifically referred to in the policy 
document. The only excess mentioned on the schedule is that applying to the helmet  and 
leather cover. And despite asking for an explanation  of how MCE had reached an excess of 
£550 this hasnt been provided. 
 
MCE has applied additional  excess  and premiums as it said Mr L misrepresented where his 
bike was kept when taking out the insurance and that he had an additional  security  device. 
As the law of the country  in which  the policyholder resides applies, its the law of England 
and Wales that I need to take into account. The relevant law for me to consider is the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Section 2 (2) of CIDRA says:
It is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer
Section 3 sets out what reasonable care is. It says:
(1)Whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation is to be determined in light of all the relevant  circumstances.
(2)The following are examples of things which may need to be taken into account in 
making a determination under subsection (1) 
(a)the type of consumer  insurance contract  in question, and its target  
market,
(b)any relevant explanatory material or publicity produced  or authorised  by 
the insurer,
(c)how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions were,
(d)in the case  of failure to respond  to the insurers questions in connection  
with the renewal or variation of a consumer insurance contract, how 
clearly the insurer communicated the importance of answering those 
questions (or the possible consequences  of failing to do so),
Ref: DRN37744453(e)whether or not an agent was acting for the consumer
(3)The standard of care required  is that of a reasonable consumer; but this is 
subject to subsections  (4) and (5).
(4)If the insurer was, or ought to have been,  aware  of any particularly characteristics 
or circumstances  of the actual consumer, those are to be taken into account.
(5)A misrepresentation made dishonestly is always to be taken as showing a lack of 
reasonable care
Under CIDRA remedies  are available to an insurer if it can show  misrepresentations have 
been made. So my first consideration is whether Mr L misrepresented where he kept the 
motorbike and what security devices were in place. 
MCE has provided screen shots of the questions  asked  and the answers given by Mr L when 
taking out the insurance. These  arent the clearest  of screen  shots but I have nevertheless  
considered them.
MCE asked Mr L where  the motorbike  was kept.  The options were:
Car Park
Carport
Garaged
Kept on 3rd party
Locked building
Locked compound
Parked on Drive
Private Property
Public road
Unlocked building 
Unlocked compound
 
The screen shot doesnt show that definitions of these parking areas are given. Mr L 
selected Garaged and when asked  to select from a drop down box, that the garage was 
made of concrete. 
I have considered pictures  provided by Mr L of where the bike was kept.  Firstly Im satisfied 
the area is made of concrete. So Mr L didnt mispresent that. The area is a large  area 
underneath flats that several residents are able to use to park their vehicles. Im given to 
understand from Mr Ls testimony that the area is only accessible to residents that have the 
necessary fob to enter  and that police believe the entry system was hacked. 
As MCE  hasnt provided definitions of what the parked  areas mean, its left to prospective 
policy holders to work out which matches their circumstances. And the ordinary definition of 
garage includes a building or indoor space in which to park or keep a motor  vehicle. This 
matches the area where  Mr L kept his motorbike. 
I accept MCE  defined  garage within the policy as A garage is a lockable brick,  concrete, 
steel, stone or wooden  building  with a roof constructed  of slate,  tile, steel or wood  in which  to 
park or keep a motor  vehicle, for your sole purpose . But this definition  wasnt  given during 
the application process. And like the investigator I dont think its fair to rely on an ungiven  
definition when determining whether  Mr L misrepresented  where he kept his bike when 
applying for the policy. 
Ref: DRN37744454MCE has said the investigator indicated Mr L kept his motor bike in an underground  car park 
and car park was an option that could  have been  selected. I accept  it is possible the parking 
area could  be described as an underground car park, although I didnt make that finding in 
my provisional decision. But again that isnt defined.  And so it would appear there are two 
possible options Mr L could have selected  that could accurately represent where the bike 
was kept  Garaged and Car Park. Given there are two options,  and given MCE didnt define 
what either of them  were, I still find that Mr L took reasonable  care when he provided 
information to MCE such that I find he didnt misrepresent where his motorbike was kept. 
MCE said endorsement MCE5 had been breached because of Mr Ls misrepresentation 
about the garage. In the policy its explained that:
If a theft or attempted theft of your motorcycle happens within the proximity of your 
home address or the garaging address when your motorcycle is not in a locked 
garage or building, we will double the theft excess.  There will also be a claims 
handling charge of £100.00 (subject  to insurance  premium tax, where applicable)  
imposed to cover the additional  administrative costs.
As I dont find Mr L misrepresented where his motorbike was kept,  Im not persuaded its fair 
for MCE  to double the theft excess applicable  to Mr L or for it charge  an additional £100 for 
administering the claim.  
 
MCE also said that Mr L misrepresented  having  a security device. The statement of fact sent 
to Mr L set out the security device was unspecified.  So I agree with the investigators  
findings that Mr L did not misrepresent that he had an alarm. Mr L had a steering lock and a 
security chain that he used for the motorbike.  So Im not persuaded he has misrepresented  
having an unspecified security device. If MCE had a particular type of security device in 
mind when asking  that question, then it should  have made that clear. 
As I dont find Mr L misrepresented having  an unspecified security device, I find no basis on 
which MCE can fairly, and retrospectively,  increase the premium  by 15%.   But  even if I 
found Mr L had carelessly  mispresented his security device, which  I make  clear I dont, the 
remedy MCE has sought to apply isnt consistent with the remedies available under CIDRA. 
If there is a qualifying misrepresentation that means MCE would have charged Mr L a higher 
premium for insuring his motorbike, the remedy for that is to pay a proportionate claim (see 
Schedule 1 of CIDRA) not to increase the premium  and reduce  the claim by that sum 
accordingly. And if it was seeking to pay a proportionate claim, it would still need to satisfy 
us that Mr L would have been charged  a higher  premium. To date all MCE has been able to 
provide is confirmation  that 15% extra is applied at the claim stage. What I would expect to 
see is underwriting criteria to show what premium would have been charged at the outset. 
But as I dont find a misrepresentation  was made, I find there is no basis on which MCE can 
fairly make an additional charge for that.
MCE has told us that even if it reconsidered the claim it would be declined as the steering  
lock wasnt engaged when Mr L left his motorbike. The policy terms set out on page  6:
11. Loss or damage  arising from theft or attempted  theft where your motorcycle  is left 
unattended and the steering  lock has not been activated. 
I accept all of the reasons  that MCE has given me for including such  an exclusion within the 
policy and that it is a deterrent for prospective thieves. And it is for an insurer to decide  what 
Ref: DRN37744455risks it is and isnt prepared to cover. But I still need to decide whether that exclusion has 
been applied  fairly. 
As MCE  isnt regulated  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) it isnt required to comply 
with the regulations set out in ICOBS, although  it appears from its response that it does so. I 
am, in any event, required to take account  of good industry practice.  And I consider those 
regulations to be representative  of good industry  practice. 
ICOBS 8.1.1 says an insurer must
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy)
ICOBS 8 .1.2 sets out case where rejection of a consumers claim is unreasonable:  contracts 
before 1 August 2017. Mr Ls policy was taken out before  then, so this section would apply. It 
says:
For contracts entered into or variations agreed before 1 August 2017, a rejection of a 
consumer/policyholders claim is unreasonable, except where there  is evidence  of 
fraud, it is:
(3) for a breach  of warranty or condition unless the circumstances  of the claim are 
connected to the breach and 
It is for this reason I asked if MCE could provide evidence to show  whether or not the 
steering lock being engaged was material to the bike being  stolen. In response to my 
provisional findings, it has said it was material but still has not provided  any evidence;  
instead it has again referred to why the condition has been included  in the policy.  What  I 
would expect to see is evidence to show it was the steering lock being left unengaged that 
enabled the theft to take place.  
MCE investigators report records  the police had informed Mr L other  thefts occurred in the 
same parking area that night. It also reported  there was no debris. This would suggest either 
the thief cut through  the security chain  and took it with them, or the chain wasnt  cut through  
at all. 
I do accept its possible the steering lock not being  engaged is what led to the bike being  
stolen. But its equally possible the bike was wheeled  away  on its back  wheel, or was picked  
up and loaded onto another vehicle  in which case not engaging the steering  lock wouldnt 
have been material  to the bike being  stolen. It is for MCE  to show  that an exclusion applies, 
not Mr L to show it doesnt. Im not satisfied MCE has provided persuasive evidence  to show 
the breach of condition  not engaging  the steering lock  was material to the circumstances 
of Mr Ls claim. Im therefore not persuaded it would  be fair for MCE to rely on that exclusion 
to decline Mr Ls claim.
how MCE  need to put this right
I have found MCE  hasnt fairly applied the MCE3 (security device) and MCE5 (garage) 
endorsements to Mr Ls claim. I also dont  find it has fairly excluded Mr Ls claim on the basis 
the steering lock wasnt engaged. To that end I require  MCE to:
Pay Mr Ls claim subject to the usual policy excess for theft only.
Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement of 
the claim.
Ref: DRN37744456Pay Mr L an additional £100 for the inconvenience the way this claim has been  
handled has caused. 
Pay £300  for the loss of use of a vehicle.
The investigator also asked MCE to refund the outstanding balance of the premium. But I 
understand this is an annual  policy, and a claim being declined  wouldnt be a basis for 
asking for a refund of the premium. And as Im requiring MCE to pay the claim,  its right the 
full premium for insurance cover for that year remains paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to settle  this claim as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3774445