K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a regular  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  his credit card repayments.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card by post in January  2002. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because  he thought Mr C 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr C disagrees.  He says he was unaware  that he was paying  for PPI.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mr C completed an application for a credit card.  
Capital One has given us a copy of the application form Mr C completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives 
the option to select PPI and the option to not have it. I can see on Mr Cs application form a 
tick has been placed next to the option to have it. 
Mr C says that he was unaware that he was paying  for PPI. But I think  because  Mr C 
selected to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice in taking the policy  and 
wanted the cover. If Mr C didnt want to take out PPI he couldve ticked next to the option 
declining the policy. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Capital One advised  
Mr C to take PPI. What this means  is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr C, it just 
gave him information  about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital  One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even  if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr C needed  to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because  at the time of sale from what 
we know about  Capital One policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN38945052It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other 
means of making his repayments if he couldnt  work due to accident or sickness  or if he 
lost his job. The policy wouldve helped him in these situations, so I cant see how 
knowing this information wouldve  put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr C on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital  One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr C about that. 
Because Capital  One didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3894505