K820x#14complaint
Mr U says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in July 1996. Neither party  can 
recall with any certainty where  the policy was sold.
Mr U believes  RBS mis-sold him PPI. He says it was added to his account without his 
knowledge.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr U disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Us case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Us complaint because:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mr U nor RBS can give me much  information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mr U has said about how the policy was sold  that RBS added  the 
policy without his knowledge. But it has been very difficult for me to understand how 
this would have  happened with so little information available  about  this sale. And in 
the absence of relevant documentation, a more  detailed recollection or further  
information to support  what Mr U has said, I cannot fairly conclude  on this occasion 
that the policy was sold as he suggests it was. I would need  to see more  information 
to support what Mr U has said to conclude otherwise.  
I cant be sure if RBS gave a recommendation to Mr U to have the policy  but even if it 
did recommend the PPI, I think  it was suitable for him anyway. Any claim under the 
policy more likely  could be paid for up to 12 months.  Mr U would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of his sick 
pay). Mr U said he had 12 months  full sick pay but hasnt been able to provide 
anything to support  this. Our service  asked for more details due to it being  an 
unusually high amount. Mr U also wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys  
main exclusions. The policy  also seemed  affordable for Mr U.
I cant see that RBS explained about the policys main  terms as clearly as it shouldve 
done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think  this wouldve 
made a difference to Mr Us decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mr Us complaint.
Ref: DRN32073902my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207390