K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc caused delays in dealing  with her remortgage,  
which caused her loss. Miss Ds partner,  Mr H, is helping her to bring her complaint. 
background
On 7 August  2018, Miss Ds broker sent her mortgage application to Santander. On 16 
August 2018,  Santander sent Miss D an offer of mortgage. It also sent instructions to its 
solicitors. The remortgage  completed  in early December 2018.
Miss D says that Santanders  solicitors caused  delay, which meant  that she paid additional  
interest to her previous lender. 
Santanders solicitors  thought there were communication  issues  caused by an office move 
and offered compensation of £50. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Santander  or its solicitors delayed Miss Ds remortgage 
application. He thought  that the offer of £50 was sufficient. The investigator explained that 
we cant look at everything that the solicitor did in dealing with the remortgage.
Miss D didnt agree. She said that she was misinformed, ignored  and unable  to contact the 
solicitor, which  caused  delay and loss. Miss D said that Santander said that the service from 
its solicitor was unacceptable. She said that her complaint is against Santander, as it 
appointed and paid the solicitors.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The remortgage took almost four months to complete, which  is much longer that wed 
expect. But I dont  think that Santander  was responsible for that. Ill explain why.  
As the investigator  explained, we cant look at everything the solicitors did here.  The 
solicitors acted for both Santander and Miss D. We can only look at what the solicitors did if 
it was part of the regulated activity of lending. Santander isnt responsible for all of the 
solicitors actions, even  though  it met the cost of the solicitors work  as part of the mortgage 
product Miss D chose.  
The investigator set out the chronology of events, which I wont  repeat  here.  I understand 
that there  was a restriction  on the title of Miss Ds property. That means that there were 
additional security  measures; Miss D was required  to have a separate  solicitor  witness her 
signing the mortgage and that solicitor was required to certify that she had signed it. There 
were difficulties around that which caused the majority of the delay. 
Ref: DRN35455012It is a consumers responsibility to ensure the title of the property he or she is proposing to 
mortgage is suitable for the lenders charge to be attached to it. Completing any work 
needed to put the title in a fit state  isnt part of the regulated activity of lending, so Santander  
isnt responsible for that. 
Santanders solicitors  accepted that there were communication issues  following  its office  
move and offered  Miss D compensation of £50, which I think  is fair in the circumstances; 
Miss D suffered some frustration but didnt  suffer  significant distress.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss D but, based on what Ive seen, there are no grounds on which 
to direct Santander to pay any more  compensation that has already  been offered. If Miss D 
wishes to accept the £50, she should contact Santander directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545501