K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
secured loan in 2003. The policy only covered  Mr D for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. And Mr and Mrs D paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Mr and Mrs D say Northern Bank Limited (trading  as Danske Bank)  mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say they were led to believe the PPI was compulsory, and part of the loan they 
were taking out. Unfortunately  due to how long ago the policy was sold  Northern Bank no 
longer have a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds loan documents. Instead its provided us with a 
sample copy of the documentation Mr and Mrs D are likely to have completed at the time. 
Ive looked at the sample paperwork and I havent  seen  anything in that paperwork to make  
me think the PPI was presented as something  they had to have.
From the sample documentation, it looks like Mr and Mrs D wouldve first completed a loan 
application, which had a separate section relating to PPI. In this section included  options to 
take a single or joint policy. And applicants were  then required to sign to agree to take the 
PPI as well as say what  level of benefit  they wanted.  
It then looks like they wouldve completed  a separate PPI application form, where applicants  
had to select the level on cover and the monthly benefit they wanted.
Ive thought about what I know  about  how Northern Bank sold these types of policies at the 
time, alongside what Mr and Mrs D have told us. And having done  this, I think its unlikely 
Northern Bank would have added the PPI without Mr and Mrs D indicating they wanted it. 
With all this in mind, I think  Northern Bank  wouldve most likely made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs 
D had a choice  about taking PPI and they chose  to take it to cover Mr D.
 
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for Mr Ds circumstances  and based  on what Ive seen of these at the time, I think  that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. I appreciate that Mr D had good sick and 
redundancy pay through his employer,  but the PPI would have covered the loan repayments 
for up to 12 months if he had been too ill to work or became  unemployed. And the PPI 
wouldve paid out alongside his employee benefits,  meaning those  benefits  were available  
for other essential  expenditure. I also understand that Mr and Mrs D had other policies at the 
time, but these seem  to have been  for life cover which wouldve only been available if Mr D 
passed away. Given that the loan was secured against their home   and so there were 
serious consequences if they could not keep up the repayments  I still think  they PPI could 
have provided  them  with a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN37680352From everything Ive been given, its possible the information Northern Bank  gave Mr and 
Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out  so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it could have been useful for them 
if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr          
and Mrs D.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:  
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Northern Bank 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
I know Mr and Mrs D feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put time 
and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised  
including what Mr D has said about how his sick pay accumulated.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained above I still think they couldve found  the policy useful, so this point doesnt  
change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  make  any further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768035