K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds handling  of his car insurance  
policy following the total loss of his car.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Mr Ps car was insured with CIS. In September 2018, he was involved in an accident which 
resulted in the total loss of his car. He claimed  on his policy.
I understand CIS said Mr Ps cars pre-accident market value was £4,374.  Thats the amount 
CIS would pay Mr P after deducting  the policy excess. Mr P told CIS he wanted to keep his 
car. CIS said Mr P would  have to pay £962  to retain the salvage  of his car. Mr P felt that was 
too high. He said he got quotes from a number of companies who valued  the salvage  
between £185  and £600. 
Mr P complained saying  CISs valuation of the salvage of his car was unreasonable. He also 
said CISs staff were rude and aggressive; and that CIS failed to give him a breakdown of 
the salvage value. CIS upheld Mr Ps complaint in part. They said they did tell Mr P they 
would send him a letter  detailing the salvage  value,  but that was overlooked. CIS didnt 
agree that their staff were  rude and aggressive;  and they said the salvage value they offered 
was correct.
Mr P didn't  think that was fair, so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He felt that CIS had dealt  with Mr P fairly. As Mr P didnt  agree  with our 
investigator, his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr P, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr P has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if CIS have  dealt with Mr P in a fair and reasonable  way.
Under the policy, where the car is a total loss, CIS have to pay Mr P the pre-accident market 
value of the car. Once that happens,  the car becomes  the property of CIS and they can do 
with it as they please. Often insurers will sell the salvage of a vehicle to a salvage  agent. By 
doing that the insurer will recover some of their costs, which  is reasonable. Insurers have 
agreements with salvage agents  and some have agreed rates.  Its often the case  that the 
salvage price of a car will be a percentage of the vehicles pre-accident  market value. Or it 
could be the amount the salvage agent  sells the vehicle for. In this case, the amount CIS 
would have received for selling the car to their salvage agent is £962. So, I think  its 
reasonable that they would charge Mr P the same amount  if he wanted to keep the car, 
otherwise if they let him buy the salvage for less, then CIS would be depriving themselves of 
recovering as much of their costs as possible and increasing their costs of settling the claim. 
Ref: DRN39542782Mr P has approached a number of companies  who have offered to buy the salvage  of his car 
for amounts varying between £185  to £600.  Mr P also asked  the same  salvage agent CIS 
use and they said they would pay £600 for the cars salvage. First of all, I should say that 
CIS have  an agreement with the salvage  agent  whereas Mr P doesnt. So the rates will be 
different. But the price  Mr P was offered was the amount the salvage agent was willing  to 
pay Mr P. The salvage  agent would have  reduced  their offer to him to allow for a profit 
margin on that before selling  it on. And it is in the interests of salvage  agents to pay as little 
as possible to buy a cars  salvage so that they can make a bigger profit. Thats  why I think 
one company offered to buy the salvage for £185.  But CIS have said the price  they placed  
on the salvage was the price of actual  sales figures  over the last three months  that their 
salvage agent achieved. So, I think thats  reasonable. Im therefore  not upholding this part of 
Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P was unhappy that CIS didnt send  him a letter  detailing the salvage cost of his car 
despite being told he would. CIS upheld that part of the complaint  and apologised.  I think  
that was reasonable and Im not asking CIS to do anything further. I dont  think  Mr P suffered 
a detriment because  he was later given all the relevant details.
Finally, Mr P said that CISs staff were rude and aggressive during their dealings  with him. 
Mr P hasnt been specific as to what he is referring to. But I havent come across  any 
specific occasion where that was the case. So, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3954278