K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of B, a limited  company,  that AIG Life Limited unfairly cancelled a 
term assurance policy and refused to reinstate it.
background
Mr P is managing director of his own company  B. B and Mr P are represented  in this 
complaint by a financial  advisor Ill call S. Mr P already had life assurance in place with 
another provider,  but in January 2018 he asked  S to source  an improved policy  to provide 
life cover to benefit  his dependents, his wife and children, should he pass  away. Hes the 
main breadwinner and doesnt  have  employer benefits to fall back on. 
S had originally recommended AIG and applied on Mr Ps behalf  in April 2017 for a policy  
with a sum assured of £500,000 and a term of 41 years.  But B was unable  to proceed at the 
time due to cash flow problems.
In January 2018 when Mr P wanted  to go ahead S asked him to check the information it had 
captured previously. Mr P confirmed it was correct, but updated  some  medication details. In 
the application process S was required to respond  to questions about Mr Ps health  and 
lifestyle. It disclosed Mr P has a debilitating skin condition which  affects his immune system, 
he has anxiety and his father had suffered a heart  attack at age 45. Hed also been 
diagnosed with raised cholesterol within the last five years, for which he was either  waiting 
for a hospital  investigation or the outcome of one. The lifestyle factors included  his height  
and weight. 
S submitted an application on 9 January 2018, which  AIGs systems  automatically 
postponed for review  due to the medical  conditions disclosed. S amended some responses 
before re-submitting the application  the following day. In the section relating to Mr Ps 
cholesterol it answered the question to say Mr P wasnt  waiting for a hospital investigation or 
the outcome of one. This prompted further questions about Mr Ps cholesterol, including 
whether hed been advised to attend a hospital lipid clinic.  And it asked if his cholesterol  
reading had ever been above 6.5. The answer to both these questions  was given as no. 
AIGs internal underwriters manually assessed  the application and offered terms on 
10 January 2018,  which  were  valid for 30 days.  
Mr P didnt confirm his acceptance of AIGs  terms to S until late February, and as more  than 
30 days had elapsed the terms had expired so S had to resubmit the application. S says the 
original application  had been deleted  from AIGs  systems so it had to re-key  it, although  AIG 
says the application was accessed and resubmitted  on 26 February  2016.  AIG reassessed 
the application but as no new information had been disclosed the same terms were  offered 
and S activated the cover  online on 28 February 2018. 
This action  generated policy documents which were sent to Mr P for review. Happy with his 
new policy Mr P cancelled  his existing policy with the other provider. But when Mr P 
reviewed the policy  documentation he asked S to correct some of the responses it had 
given. S updated  the application  twice on 5 March 2018. The first amendment disclosed 
Mr P had experienced depression. The second amendment  corrected some  details about 
the depression  and its treatment. And in the cholesterol section it advised Mr P had been 
advised to attend a hospital lipid clinic. 
AIG reviewed the new information, and the disclosure about the lipid clinic prompted it to 
request a targeted medical  report (TMR)  from Mr Ps doctor. The report  confirmed a family 
Ref: DRN38747382history of high cholesterol, Mr Ps fathers  early  heart attack and Mr Ps long history of 
anxiety and depression, with the last episode being  classed as moderate/severe.   AIGs  
internal underwriters concluded that had that information been  available at the outset it 
wouldnt have offered cover. So the policy was cancelled. 
S has since shopped around on Mr Ps behalf, and although hes now obtained  an 
alternative policy its not on terms as favourable as the one he cancelled.  Being without 
cover was worrying for Mr P, as he has family  dependent  on him. So he wants £3,000  
compensation to reflect  the time hes spent  trying to rectify the situation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as he thought it wasnt unfair  of AIG to follow its 
own underwriting criteria.  S made a number of points disagreeing with the investigators 
outcome. It questioned  AIGs underwriting process  and referred to a clause in the policy  
which says no review  is necessary within 90 days of inception. AIG has explained why that 
doesnt apply  in this case. 
As agreement cant be reached its come  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
To be clear, AIG didnt advise Mr P or B to take the policy.  It was sold through S, so Im not 
looking at the sale. This decision concerns AIGs cancellation of the cover after the terms 
had been agreed, and Mr P no longer had his other  policy.  
Mr P suffers  from a number of medical  conditions which he disclosed to S in 2017, along  
with some family history, to enable  them  to submit the application on his behalf. Insurers are 
entitled to ask for information about  existing medical  conditions,  any treatment the applicant 
has had, the medication  they take, and any conditions  which  are under  investigation.  They 
can also ask questions  about lifestyle factors which influence health and life expectancy  to 
enable them to make  an informed decision about  whether  to offer cover  and on what terms.  
But it was S, not Mr P which responded to the questions, based on its interpretation  of the 
information provided by Mr P. AIG assessed the application and calculated the premiums 
based on the information submitted by S on 10 January 2018. 
Mr P was offered sub-standard  terms, which means the premium was loaded  to reflect the 
additional risk inherent in the medical  conditions hed disclosed. But this assessment didnt 
include a full picture of his cholesterol.  
S expressed  concern that different medical questions were  asked each time, but thats 
because the response to one question prompts what is asked next. Answering no to the 
cholesterol questions  prompted the system  to ask some follow  up questions. S says 
because it could no longer access the original application, it had to re-key the information 
again. So it inadvertently responded to the questions differently, making what  it describes as 
an innocent error by my admin,  and the additional questions meant Ss staff had to
 re-interpret the original  data capture . 
As this complaint  is about AIG, I cant make a finding  on Ss actions. But AIG has provided  
evidence of the application  history  on its system  which shows  each time the application was 
updated it retained the same policy number (ending  227). AIG says if an application was 
Ref: DRN38747383re-keyed it would generate a new policy number.  S thinks the 01 suffix  designates the 
re-keyed, application  but AIG has explained the 01 is generated once the policy  goes on 
risk to differentiate an application from a live policy.
AIGs system retains a copy of the responses  given in each  of the applications  on 9 and 10 
January and two from 5 March, which Ive been able to compare. I can see the responses to 
the cholesterol questions were  amended  before the application was resubmitted  on 
10 January 2018.  I understand Mr P had an appointment with S on 2 February. Had the 
application responses been  checked  and AIG given the correct  information about Mr Ps 
cholesterol at this point,  its likely it would have requested  a TMR.  Which  I think would have 
made Mr P pause before cancelling  his existing policy
But Mr P didnt check the responses  until he received the policy  documents on 28 February  
2018. He accepted the terms (i.e. the cover  offered  and the premium), and having done  so 
cancelled his other policy. But he appears  to have done that before following the advice in 
the covering letter which says:
 Please  ensure you have understood  and answered  all the questions  honestly, accurately 
and to the best of your knowledge. If you havent your policy may be cancelled or a future 
claim reduced or rejected. 
This put Mr P on notice  the policy could be cancelled if the information was incorrect. And 
though Mr P had accepted AIGs terms and the policy was put on immediate cover it was 
still possible  for cover to be withdrawn within 14 days. 
It was the disclosure about the lipid clinic in the second update on 5 March which  triggered  
AIGs underwriters to request a TMR. Once AIG had the full picture of Mr Ps health, 
concerns were raised about the number and severity of his conditions, the immune 
suppression, his family history of heart problems and high cholesterol, and other morbidity 
factors such  as his height to weight ratio which classed him as overweight. I think  they 
were entitled  to do that, as the information  impacted on the risk. If the way the questions 
were answered was a keying error  or a misunderstanding of the data on the part of S thats  
not something I can hold AIG responsible for. I think it was entitled to rely on the information  
actually submitted when  assessing the application.  And I understand B would want  to avoid 
paying for two policies,  but it may not have been  wise to cancel the other  policy before AIG 
had confirmed it would provide cover  based  on the corrected  information.
I can see from the notes AIGs  underwriters  were aware of the impact of cancelling the policy  
after Mr P had accepted  the terms, and so the application was referred  for more senior 
oversight. 
But eventually they concluded that had all the relevant information been  disclosed from the 
outset, a TMR  would have  been requested at that point. And once the medical report had 
been obtained, cover  wouldnt  have been  offered. 
S believes the policy terms which B agreed  to state  no reassessment of an application is 
required within 90 days of AIG issuing its offer of cover.  So it shouldnt have been  necessary 
for AIG to reassess the application in light of the new medical information as it was within 
that period. AIGs statement of terms clearly shows the date the terms were  quoted  and an 
expiry date, 30 days later. So I think AIG is entitled  to put an expiry date on an offer of cover 
it considers to be higher risk. 
Ref: DRN38747384The 90 day timescale  is included in the terms as follows: When  activating cover, if the 
application had been submitted more than 90 days ago, you will be asked to confirm  the 
application answers are still correct .  S seems to be suggesting this clause  means AIG is 
only entitled to consider  new medical  information if it comes to light more than 90 days after 
terms were originally offered. But I cant agree that would be fair or reasonable. I think  that 
clause means a new application  would  only be required if cover  is activated after 90 days  of 
terms being offered.  Within 90 days the applicant would simply need to confirm  the previous  
responses were still accurate. But the difficulty with Mr Ps application  is the responses upon  
which AIG had based its offer of cover were not accurate. It wouldnt be fair for me to require 
AIG to provide cover  to Mr P if it wouldnt have done  so, had accurate information been 
provided originally.
S said Mr P would still have the policy, had they supressed the revised medical information 
rather than passed  it on to AIG. I think S was professionally obliged  to update AIG once it 
knew it had provided  inaccurate responses to questions about Mr Ps health, even 
unintentionally. Failing to do so could  affect any future claim. And Im not going to comment  
on Ss concerns  about AIGs underwriting process  and the way it assesses medical 
information, other than to say firms are entitled to have their own criteria for assessing risk. 
So for the reasons Ive explained  I cant say AIG has treated B unfairly by reassessing and 
then cancelling  the cover  it had offered, once  it fully understood  Mr Ps health.  And I cant  
hold it responsible for Mr P cancelling his existing  policy. So while I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr P, I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3874738