K820x#14Complaint
Mrs O complains about the information  Barclays  Bank UK PLC gave her when she called 
about some  pending transactions on her current account. 
Background
On 11 January 2019 Mrs O tried to top up a prepaid  card she holds with another  business but 
the attempts appeared  to be declined. However,  a few days  later Mrs O checked her account  
and found there were  five pending  payments for £200. On 14 January 2019 she called  
Barclays and explained that the payments  werent  genuine and raised concerns that the 
impact on her available  balance meant she wouldnt  be able to pay her rent the following day. 
Barclays referred Mrs O to the merchant to get confirmation that it didnt intend to claim the 
payments. But after Mrs O got that she called Barclays again and her request was turned 
down on the basis  that she had funds  available in a savings account. When  Mrs O called 
back again the transactions were temporarily reversed as she requested.  
Mrs O complained and Barclays responded on 18 January 2019. Barclays agreed  Mrs O had 
been given incorrect  information and that the transactions should have been temporarily 
reversed after she checked with the merchant.  Barclays  offered Mrs O £50 and apologised 
for the issues raised. Mrs O has told us she didnt receive Barclays final response. 
Mrs O referred  her complaint  to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They  thought 
Barclays offer was fair so didnt ask it to take any further action.  Mrs O said the service  she 
received had been poor and she was unaware Barclays had responded to her complaint. 
Mrs O asked to appeal  so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs O is upset at the way the transaction reversals were handled and that she 
didnt receive Barclays  final response. It is unfortunate that the call recordings arent  
available. But I accept  that Mrs O was incorrectly told that she should use money  in her 
savings account  to cover her rent. Barclays has confirmed  the call handler should have 
processed temporary reversals instead,  which is what was done when Mrs O spoke with 
someone else. 
But I dont agree Barclays was wrong to refer Mrs O to the merchant  for confirmation that the 
transactions wouldnt go through before it processed the temporary reversals. Barclays  has 
confirmed that its process requires  customers to take that step and thats reasonable. 
Barclays responded to Mrs Os complaint on 19 January 2019 and apologised for the way 
the situation had been handled. Barclays also offered Mrs O £50 to apologise. I know  Mrs O 
didnt receive Barclays  letter,  but its correctly addressed  in line with the details we hold for 
Mrs O. I dont know why it wasnt received. But Im satisfied that Barclays  sent Mrs O its final 
response on 19 January  2019 as it claims. 
Ref: DRN31691282Mrs O says Barclays failed to call her as promised and that she has no records  of missed 
calls or text messages  relating to this matter. But the contact notes are clear  and show 
Barclays did try to get in touch with Mrs O. When Barclays wasnt able to speak with Mrs O it 
sent its final response to her in the post which is what I would expect to see. 
Ive considered all Mrs Os comments  about  the level of contact she received from Barclays 
in relation to this matter. Whilst I know Mrs O feels Barclays should have tried harder to 
speak with her, Im satisfied it responded to her complaint in line with the rules.  
I agree  that Mrs O was inconvenienced when she was given incorrect information on 
14 January 2019.  Barclays  has offered Mrs O £50 and apologised.  I appreciate Mrs O 
doesnt feel Barclays offer is fair but I think it reflects the impact of the issues shes raised. 
As Im satisfied Barclays  has made a reasonable offer and dealt with Mrs Os complaint fairly  
Im not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3169128