K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  cancelled his motor  insurance policy from the 
start (voided it). It said this was because  he misrepresented  some information about  his wife, 
Mrs G, a named driver on the policy. He wants it to reinstate the policy.
background
Mr Y and Mrs Gs policy came up for renewal  and their broker  sent them a renewal letter on 
behalf of Ageas. This asked  them to check the information to make sure the details were 
correct. There was a specific question regarding motoring convictions within the past five 
years. And this was answered no. But it came to light after Mrs G had an accident and they 
made a claim that Mrs G had a conviction for driving whilst uninsured (IN10) within  the past 
five years.  So Ageas voided the policy, declined the claim and refunded the premiums.  But 
Mr Y said this was an innocent mistake.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  a 
specific question had been asked about previous  convictions and this had been answered 
incorrectly. He thought Ageas had shown that it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known 
about the conviction. And so he thought Ageas had reasonably voided the policy and 
refunded the premiums  as it thought the misrepresentation had been  careless.
Mr Y replied  that he hadnt acted dishonestly and hadnt deliberately  misrepresented  his 
wifes IN10 conviction. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Y 
and to Ageas on 18 April 2019. I summarise my findings:
I understood that Mr Y didnt mean to not disclose his wifes  conviction to Ageas. He said it 
was an innocent mistake. I understood that he felt unfairly punished for this mistake.  
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
I saw the renewal letter that Ageas  sent to Mr Y and Mrs G. It asked a specific  question  
about whether  any driver has been convicted of any motoring offences within the past five 
years. This was answered no for both drivers.  The letter also asked Mr Y to check  that the 
information is correct  as this may lead to the policy being invalidated. So I thought  Ageas 
asked a clear question about  previous motoring  convictions  and gave reasonable warning of 
the possible consequences if this information  was incorrect. 
Ref: DRN30157642I saw a copy of Mrs Gs licence and saw that she had an IN10  conviction within  the five 
years prior to the renewal.  Mr Y explained  that this conviction was due to an innocent 
mistake. But this doesnt change the fact that the conviction was recorded  on Mrs Gs 
licence. And so I thought this should have been  disclosed to Ageas when it asked about 
previous convictions.
Mr Y said that he did disclose this conviction  later when Mrs G made a claim and again  
when the policy came up for renewal again.  But this doesnt change  the fact that the 
conviction wasnt disclosed when  the policy was first renewed with Ageas. 
Ageas provided  us with evidence from its underwriting guide that if it had known about the 
conviction then it wouldnt have offered cover. Mr Y said another  insurer would offer them 
cover with the conviction. But I couldnt  say that Ageas had made  a mistake as its entitled  to 
decide what risks it wants to cover.
I saw that Ageas has refunded Mr Ys premium. I thought this implied that it accepted  that he 
made a careless  mistake when he made the misrepresentation. I thought that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. But Ageas also voided the policy and declined the claim. 
The relevant  legislation  says that where there has been careless misrepresentation, if Ageas 
wouldnt have provided cover on any terms, it can void the policy. However, if it would have 
provided cover but on different terms, the policy is to be treated as if it had been  provided on 
those terms. 
Ageas evidenced  that it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known of the IN10. But I thought 
this meant  Ageas would  still have offered a policy to Mr Y, but wouldnt have offered to cover 
Mrs G as a named driver.  So, I thought that under  the relevant  legislation the policy  should  
have remained in force but the cover  for Mrs G as a named driver should  have been 
removed.
That would mean that Ageas didnt have  to deal with the claim for the incident as that 
occurred when Mrs G was driving.  But it would need to reinstate the policy in Mr Ys name 
only, remove any references to the voidance from internal  or external databases,  and cover  
any additional premium  cost Mr Y may have incurred with his new insurer due to disclosing 
the voidance,  if he did so. And if Mr Y has cashed in the premium refund then he would need 
to give that back  to Ageas.
Subject to any further representations by Mr Y or Ageas, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y replied  to my provisional decision that he thought the policy  should  be reinstated for 
both himself and his wife as the misrepresentation had been an honest mistake.  And he 
thought that Ageas should then deal with the claim.  But Ageas has shown that it wouldnt 
have provided  cover  for Mrs G if it had known of her IN10 conviction. So I think that under 
the relevant legislation, I cant  require Ageas to provide cover for Mrs G as the named driver.  
Ref: DRN30157643Mr Y also told us that he hadnt  cashed Ageas refund of his premium. Ageas replied that it 
hadnt made the refund because it thought  Mr Y had been  careless  in his misrepresentation, 
but as a matter  of policy. Ageas said Mr Y hadnt  been careless  in his misrepresentation as it 
said he knew of the conviction but didnt disclose it. 
The relevant  legislation  says that its for Ageas to show  that the misrepresentation was 
alternatively deliberate  or reckless. But I dont think its shown that Mr Y didnt care that hed 
answered the question incorrectly. Mr Y said he had simply missed the conviction off the 
application form. I can see that he volunteered information about  the conviction  when  he 
made a claim. So I think, on balance, the misrepresentation was an honest mistake.  So I still 
think the misrepresentation should  be regarded as careless.   
Ageas also replied that if Mr Y had disclosed his wifes  conviction,  then it wouldnt have 
accepted the risk. It thought it wasnt relevant that it may have offered cover  for Mr Y only. It 
disagreed with my view that under  the relevant legislation the policy  should  have  remained in 
force but cover for Mrs G should  be removed. And it referred  to previous cases brought  to 
our service.  
But I dont think these  previous cases are necessarily  relevant as we consider  each  case on 
its merits. I also still think that the relevant legislation says that if cover would have been 
provided but on different terms, the policy should be treated as if it had been provided on 
those terms. Ageas would  still have  provided cover for Mr Y, but not Mrs G. And so I think 
my provisional decision stays unchanged.
Ageas further  replied  that it was obliged  to deal with the claim under the Road Traffic Act as 
it couldnt withdraw its indemnity retrospectively.  I think its for Ageas to decide  on its 
responsibilities under the Road Traffic Act, but I think this is correct. And as its dealt  with the 
claim, I think  it should correctly record this.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
1.Reinstate Mr Ys policy in his name only and recover the refunded  premium  from Mr Y.  
2.Remove any reference to the voidance from any internal or external databases where  its 
been recorded and provide Mr Y with a letter saying that he neednt disclose this 
voidance to future insurers.
3.Reimburse Mr Y for any increase in premium  he incurred  due to disclosing the voidance 
to his new insurer, if he did so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3015764