K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited  wont refund withdrawals he says he didnt 
authorise from his account.
background 
Mr R disputes cash withdrawals of a total of £810  made from his account  while  he was in 
prison. These took place between 31 October  2018 and 28 November 2018 and were  all 
made from a cash point. He says he left his card and PIN in a drawer  in his home. His 
neighbour had a key and he says he discovered from her that her daughter had been 
accessing his account. He then asked his sister to obtain the card and she checked the 
balance and made one authorised withdrawal from the account on 15 December 2018  for 
£15. He reported what happened  when  he was released from prison and contacted police.
J.P. Morgan  said it wouldnt be refunding the money. Mr R hadnt told it of his change  of 
details and had it known he was in prison  it would have frozen his account.  It said he didnt 
keep his card and PIN safe and had disclosed it to a family member. Mr R hadnt notified  it 
what happened as soon as he found out.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said that the payments 
were authenticated but she didnt think Mr R had consented to them. She considered 
whether he had been grossly negligent in the way he had kept this card details. He said he 
had mental health  issues  which meant he needed to write down his PIN to remember it. The 
withdrawal his sister made came after the disputed payments. She didnt think  it was likely 
practical for him to pursue this until he was released. He didnt live in shared accommodation 
as J.P. Morgan had said. And nor should he had taken extra precautions because it said his 
property was in a high crime area. She said J.P. Morgan should refund the payments and 
pay him £100 for distress and inconvenience.  It could  deduct the first £35 of loss before he 
reported the matter  under  the terms and conditions of the account if it chose to.
J.P. Morgan  didnt agree. It said that he gave  his card and PIN to a third party and he gave 
permission to use the account. The card was taken and the withdrawals  were  made  with the 
correct PIN. He gave  his keys to a third party. He should be held responsible for breaching 
the terms and conditions of his account including not telling it about his change in 
circumstance. He should have been  prepared for any eventuality when he went to court. 
This type of account was a simple  one designed  for vulnerable customers to receive their 
benefits. There is a process for family or friends to give details of changes  in circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if these payments 
werent authorised  Mr R wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Mr R acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping his details safe.  Negligence is often referred to as a failure to 
exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable  to conclude, the use of gross 
Ref: DRN31194722negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly 
beyond ordinary negligence
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Was Mr R grossly negligent in the way he kept his security details?
Im satisfied that these  payments were  authenticated when the chip on the genuine  card was 
read and the correct  PIN entered.  
Mr R has given a consistent  account of how he says the payments were  made without  his 
consent. He couldnt have  made them himself if he was in prison.  And there was a plausible  
explanation of how someone  else could  have done so. J.P. Morgans points are more  
around whether  he is liable for the transactions because  he didnt comply with the 
agreement rather than a clear scenario in which Mr R authorised someone to use his card to 
make all the payments.  I am though considering that possible alternative  too.
Im looking  here at what is most likely  and I wont be able to say exactly  what  happened.    
Mr R has given quite an involved account.  He could for example simply have said that he 
found out all the money  had gone  when he left prison if he wanted say to conceal him 
authorising all the payments. He neednt have  mentioned the involvement of his sister in 
making one withdrawal and which has then shown  he had disclosed the PIN to her at least.  
And while his account of how hed spoken to his neighbour from prison  and shed told him 
what happened isnt supported with any evidence it is possible. When he left prison  Mr R did 
make a report to police and has provided J.P. Morgan with the details and has the name of 
the person he says made the unauthorised  withdrawals. 
I think there were likely reasons why Mr R couldnt telephone the number quoted  in the 
terms and conditions of his account  from prison to report what happened  in what  may need 
to be a lengthy call. And that he was told by the prison that he couldnt pursue this with the 
authorities until he was released. Its not often possible for someone other than the account 
holder to be able to report what happened  and if that was here I dont think  it was likely 
apparent to Mr R. The evidence is that he did so when  he was able to.
As Ive said there is another scenario  in which Mr R simply gave a known person authority to 
use his card and PIN while he was in prison and to withdraw all the money  from his account. 
Deciding between the scenarios is a finely balanced assessment. However having 
considered all the factors and with limited  evidence and arguments to the contrary  I accept 
as the most likely explanation that he didnt consent to these disputed  payments and so they 
were not authorised.
Ref: DRN31194723The issue  I now need to consider is whether he was grossly negligent.  Mr R was reasonably 
required under  the terms and conditions of his account with J. P. Morgan to keep his 
personal security information safe.  I think a reasonable person would consider that it was 
careless of Mr R to leave his card and PIN in a way accessible in his property. This meant  
that a third party gaining access to his property could find these and may have enough 
information to make payments. But its not as if Mr R left his property unlocked. Or 
reasonably thought that this might  happen.  He said he had left a key with a neighbour for 
emergencies. And if he later consented  to his sister checking his account  as he says I dont 
think that this can be fairly  thought relevant to the way Ive found  the disputed  payments 
were made.
J.P. Morgan  says that Mr R should have made better arrangements before he was 
sentenced. I dont  have a basis to say that he ought  to have known he was being sent to 
prison  rather say that a suspended or any other sentence. And taking into account  his 
health issues for which his account statement shows he was receiving  related  benefit 
payments Im not persuaded that this was a reasonable  expectation of him or would have 
been at the forefront of his mind. It seems  accepted he was a vulnerable customer. 
I dont find on balance  that he was grossly negligent and that its fair and reasonable to hold 
him responsible for these  payments. That being the case I agree with our investigator that 
these payments should be refunded.  And that he should receive  £100  for the distress  and 
inconvenience of not having  the money refunded when  he reported this. Under  the PSR 
J.P.Morgan can retain the first £35 of any fraud  claim  under certain conditions before  it was 
reported and I note that as this is part of its account  terms  and conditions it might chose to 
do so here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require J.P. Morgan to:
1)Refund the disputed payments of £810 to Mr R less £35 if it choses to as explained 
above.
2)Pay Mr R £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3119472