K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained through a third party about  two instalment loans he took out with 
Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy). Mr D has said he couldnt afford the loans  and 
had Peachy taken  into account his financial history, it wouldnt have lent to him.
background
Mr D was given two instalment loans  by Peachy between July 2013  and November 2013. 
The first loan was for £300 to be repaid in three instalments  the highest  repayment was 
around £178. During the term of this loan, Mr D incurred one late payment  fee. Peachy has 
said Mr D told it that his payment was late because he was abroad at the time and he was 
unable to access his account. This loan was fully repaid in November 2013.
The day after repaying the first loan, Mr D was given  a second loan by Peachy. This time the 
loan amount was £320 and he had to repay it over four instalments  the highest repayment  
amount was around £153. This loan was fully repaid in March  2014.
When Mr D complained to Peachy, it didnt uphold his complaint. Peachy said that it carried  
out proportionate checks when it gave  Mr D the loans. As a good will gesture, Peachy 
offered to refund the late payment charge from loan 1. Mr D didnt accept this offer and as he 
remained unhappy with the response Mr D referred  his complaint to this service through a 
third party.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that given the information  
available, Peachy carried out proportionate checks and so didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr D through his third party representative didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Peachy was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr D 
could afford  to make each  loan repayment  before it lent to him. So, in making this decision 
Ive first considered whether Peachy did everything  it should have when assessing Mr Ds 
credit applications.  And, if it didnt  do everything  it should have done, Ive thought about 
whether any assessment failings resulted in Peachy agreeing to lend to him when  it should  
have known that it would be difficult for him to repay.  
The guidance at the time wasnt prescriptive about  what checks a lender needed to carry 
out. But it was clear about the responsibility of the lender  to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that a borrower  can sustainably  repay  their loans.  The Office  of Fair Trading (OFT)  
Irresponsible Lending Guidance states  Assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed test 
which involves a creditor assessing a borrowers  ability to undertake  a specific credit 
commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable  manner, without the 
borrower incurring  (further) financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN31306912The guidance goes  on say that repaying credit in a sustainable manner means being able to 
repay credit out of income  and/or available savings and without undue difficulty. And it 
defines undue difficulty  as being  able to repay  credit while also meeting other  debt 
repayments and normal/reasonable  outgoings  and without having to borrow  further to meet 
these repayments.
Peachy has said that before it lent Mr D both loans, it searched his credit  file. Peachy hasnt 
provided us with the results of its search so I cant say what  it saw at the time. Mr D has also 
not given any information about  what his credit file looked like at the time so I cant say that 
there were any entries on the file that should have concerned  Peachy.
Peachy said it checked Mr Ds income and its records show  that in 2013, his income was 
around £1,600  and his total living expenses were  around £500.  Neither  Peachy nor Mr D has 
provided a breakdown of his living costs at the time, and I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Peachy to rely on what Mr D told it at the time.
In any event, given  the information  available, the loan repayment amounts were relatively 
low compared to Mr Ds declared  income.  Mr Ds declared income left him more  than £1,000  
of disposable  income  this seems to have  put Mr D in a position  to afford the repayments  of 
both his loans.  
I have thought about Mr Ds late repayment for his first loan and that he borrowed again 
having just repaid his first loan. But, given  the size of the repayments  and what  Mr D told 
Peachy at the time,  I cant say that the lender  ought to have done  any more here to check 
the affordability of the loans for Mr D. 
But based  on the information  Ive seen, I cant say that Peachy did something wrong by 
giving Mr D either of these loans. I think Peachys checks  were  proportionate to the loans 
and the checks  showed that Mr D was in a position to sustainably make the loan 
repayments. I appreciate  that Mr D says he couldnt  afford these loans, but from what Ive 
seen I cant say that Peachy ought to have realised this and not agreed to lend.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against
Cash On Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3130691