K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc froze her current  account,  following an application
for a Debt  Relief Order, and later allowed her to go into an unarranged  overdraft.
background
In 2018 Miss S applied for a Debt Relief Order (DRO). On receiving notification of the order,
HSBC froze  all the accounts she had with them  a current  account, a credit  card account
and a savings  account. Two days later the bank terminated the credit card agreement  but
the current and savings accounts  remained frozen for around 12 weeks.
Miss Ss current account was in credit when it was frozen, and HSBC allowed some
payments to be made into it during the 12-week period but returned others. Miss Ss account
was an Advance Account  which meant  she paid a monthly  fee for a package of insurance
products (including  cover  for her phone,  travel  and breakdown assistance). This fee also
continued to be debited while the account  was frozen.
Over the course of the 12 weeks Miss S made  a number of phone calls to the bank, and
went into branch on four occasions to get access to her funds. Some of those trips were
wasted, with branch  staff telling her they couldnt release the money  in the account while  the
block was in place.  Miss S was able to get cash out over the counter on two occasions, but
was left without  funds over Easter  weekend. 
She was told the account would eventually be closed, so she opened one elsewhere and 
raised a complaint about the impact of the block. HSBC responded to say it shouldnt  have  
kept the current account or savings account  frozen  once the DRO was confirmed  as 
neither were  included in the order. The letter also said the account  could be used as normal  
again from that point  with HSBC paying  £100  into it, as compensation for the problems 
Miss S had experienced.
Miss S then made two transactions on the account  one in a supermarket, the other  in a
fast-food restaurant  which  took the balance down to almost  zero.  After  this, the monthly
insurance package  fee and a recurring  card payment, for access  to her credit file, went out.
Miss S says shed forgotten  about the recurring  card payment, as it had been stopped while
the inhibit  was in place  and shed not cancelled  the subscription after signing up for a free
trial years earlier. Those two payments took the account into an unarranged overdraft.
Over the next few months the deduction of the account fee, and charges, took the account
further and further  overdrawn. HSBC called and wrote out to Miss S about the amount owed
 and each time it spoke  to her, she said she no longer banked  with them. 
Ref: DRN38730832Towards the end of 2018, a representative for Miss S complained that she hadnt agreed to
HSBC keeping the account open and continuing  to charge her an account fee. The
representative also raised that it wasnt  fair HSBC had allowed the account  to go overdrawn
and was now pursuing her for an escalating debt. He told the bank that Miss Ss DRO was
still in force,  and she no longer banked with them.
HSBC re-opened  the complaint and a second  final response letter was issued addressing
the overdraft. HSBC said it had made Miss S aware in its earlier letter  that the account
remained open  and she needed to have told the bank if she no longer wanted  the
Insurance Aspects. HSBC also offered to write  off the remaining balance if Miss S covered
her actual spend on the account since the £100  compensation  was paid in (just under £20).
She could  close the account after that if she wished.
HSBC didnt hear back from Miss S regarding the offer, and so the bank continued to debit
the monthly insurance package fee and send letters about the unplanned overdraft balance.
Three months later, in early 2019,  HSBC closed the account and passed the outstanding
amount to its debt recovery team. A default was also recorded with the credit reference
agencies.
The complaint was referred  to our service around the same time as the account  was closed.
Miss S told us, via her representative,  she didnt feel the compensation offered by HSBC  for
freezing her account  was enough, or that her loss of earnings had been considered. She
also explained that she didnt understand why HSBC had continued to charge her and send
threatening letters, when it had said the account would be closed.
When HSBC provided its file to us a further  £100  compensation was offered. An investigator
here looked at the complaint and thought the increased offer (of £200) was enough to put
right the inconvenience caused  by the account being frozen. But he concluded it wasnt fair
that Miss S had been  allowed to run up a balance through an unarranged overdraft while  a
DRO was in force. So the investigator recommended  that HSBC  wrote off the debt it was
pursuing her for.
HSBC didnt agree it should clear the debt. In summary, the bank said:
Miss S had spent  on the account  without  there  being sufficient funds available. Shed
also had the benefit of those funds.
Miss S ought to have been aware  the account  was still open, and that the charge  for
the insurance package would continue  to be taken each month.
It had tried to talk to Miss S about  the overdrawn balance,  but shed chosen  not to
engage with the bank.  It therefore issued a final demand and default notice.
Miss S also didnt agree with the investigators recommendations. Her representative said:
HSBCs offer didnt do enough to recognise  the significant impact  this situation had
on her, especially given she was a vulnerable customer  even before the mistake.
The compensation also didnt account for the time Miss S had to take off work. Shes
self-employed, and so the very fact she had to go to branch during working  hours
meant shed lost earnings.
As neither party agreed with the investigator, the case was passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN38730833my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Miss Ss 
complaint. On 22 May 2020 I issued my provisional  decision  to both parties   and Ive put an 
extract of my rationale below:
There are two issues to consider:
Does £200 fairly compensate Miss S for the trouble and worry HSBC  caused her, by
incorrectly freezing her current account  for 12 weeks?
Should HSBC have subsequently  allowed Miss S to go into an unarranged overdraft
 and if not, what does the bank need  to do now to rectify the situation?
Ill look at each one in turn, and then summarise  what steps HSBC should  take to redress
the complaint  overall.
Account incorrectly frozen
HSBC has accepted that once the DRO was confirmed, Miss Ss current  account shouldnt
have remained frozen. But having  seen the notification HSBC  received about the DRO, it
was clear Miss Ss current account  wasnt included  it was in credit,  and the amount listed
was the balance of her credit card. So HSBC shouldnt have frozen this account  at all.
When deciding what fair compensation  looks like, Ive considered  the following factors:
HSBC knew Miss S was already in a vulnerable position financially, given shed
successfully applied for a DRO.
Miss S told us that she finds financial matters difficult to understand, and that getting
to branch is difficult because she works long hours and finishes  late. So having to
open a new account elsewhere,  and move over all of her payment arrangements
without the aid of a switching  service,  was particularly challenging and inconvenient.
The block happened  just before  Easter,  meaning she had no access to funds  over
that weekend,  and so couldnt  make plans.
Miss Ss wages bounced  back to her employer shortly after the block was put in
place, which  meant she had to speak to them about retrieving her pay. Miss S told us
that while she didnt  have to go into detail about what had happened, it was still
embarrassing  and she worried about what they would say.
It took some effort to collect all the other payments that were returned to their
senders. As some of those were  clients, who allowed Miss S into their homes to
clean, she worried that the issues she was having with the bank might affect their
trust in her.
Miss S made at least six phone calls to HSBC and four trips to branch (some wasted)
to get access to her money in the frozen  account. Im not persuaded this resulted in
any lost income, as Miss S has said she was able to rearrange her appointments 
and all the regular  client payments appear  to have been received. But this meant
working very late on the days she visited the branch.
HSBC has offered a total of £200  for the impact of its mistake   and I dont think  thats
enough, taking  account of all the above.  But Ill look now at the second issue,  before
concluding what compensation  should  look like overall.
Ref: DRN38730834Unarranged overdraft
The terms of Miss Ss account said this type of lending  would  be approved for essential
payments where  there werent enough available funds, and you had 31 days  to repay any
transactions allowed. This was subject to HSBCs overriding obligations  to [the customer] as
a responsible lender   and given the bank knew Miss S was vulnerable,  this meant it had to
take extra care when deciding whether to approve  this borrowing. Having reviewed what
happened on the account, I dont  think HSBC did treat Miss S fairly.
In June 2018 Miss S called the bank to query the £9.95 charge that had been taken while
her account  was blocked  and the explanation  she got was poor. Had HSBC  explained  that
this transaction  was for an optional package  of insurances, then I think  Miss S would have
cancelled it  and avoided a lot of the trouble this charge  later caused her.
The bank had also created some confusion about the account status, by telling Miss S on
several occasions that it would be closed. I appreciate HSBC later said in a letter  the
account could  be used again  but Miss S had understandably  decided  to bank elsewhere
by that point. It had an obligation to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not
misleading, and to act in Miss Ss best interests.  Therefore, as the account fee (something
shed signed up for years  earlier) would continue to be charged whether she used  the
account or not, I think in the circumstances  HSBC needed to be clearer about what  the
implications of re-opening her account  were.
Miss S told had HSBC  during a couple  of calls that she no longer banked with them,  so she
didnt intend to use the account. She also only spent  on the account after the block  was
removed to access the compensation HSBC had paid into it. Therefore, to my mind,  HSBC
shouldnt have re-opened the account, in the circumstances, without first confirming that
Miss S (still) accepted the associated fees.
Instead HSBC  allowed  Miss S to go into an unarranged overdraft and continued  to allow  this
debt to build  for a further six months  contrary to what the terms say anyway about how
long a customer had to repay this type of borrowing. I appreciate that not allowing the fee to
be taken wouldve meant the cover  being  cancelled  but the risks of a mounting  unarranged
overdraft debt to Miss S far outweighed any potential benefit  of the nice to have  but not
essential insurances. Especially since her lifestyle changes following the DRO meant  Miss S
no longer had much need for the cover anyway.
HSBC has said the debt only increased because  Miss S didnt engage with the bank after its
second response to her complaint. But Miss S had six months  to challenge the offer through
our service,  and she referred it well inside that limit. So I dont think the fair alternative to not
accepting the offer straightaway was an increase to the debt of 50%, given it was clear  she
no longer wanted  the account.
I also understand why she didnt feel comfortable engaging with the bank directly  by that
point. Shed been treated  unfairly and struggled to manage financial matters anyway  so
preferred to seek the help of a representative.
Putting things right
When thinking about what fair compensation looks like overall, Ive looked  at Miss Ss
journey across the ten months   starting  with her account being blocked, up until it was
closed and the complaint referred  to us. 
Ref: DRN38730835I outlined the impact of the account being frozen  for 12 weeks on Miss S earlier in this 
decision. Add to that the problems she encountered after  being  chased for months for a 
mounting debt, and not understanding why that was happening. It must have been a 
confusing and worrying period.
HSBCs mistakes have had a significant impact  on Miss S, and so I think the bank should
pay £500 to her in compensation. HSBC  also needs to clear  the debt that was run up on the
account after the block was removed  as Miss S didnt agree to the account remaining
open. The default recorded  with the credit reference agencies also needs to be removed for
the same  reasons, and any other internal  or external records should show that Miss S chose
to close the account herself once the balance had reached zero.
HSBC responded  to say it had nothing further to add and agreed with the decision.
Miss Ss representative responded to ask whether it was possible to compel HSBC to run a 
check against its procedures to understand why it wasnt  picked up that Miss S was a 
vulnerable customer.  
HSBC did know Miss S was vulnerable  and that has, in part, informed why I dont think  it 
treated her fairly in the circumstances.  The industry regulator (The Financial Conduct  
Authority) sets out in its complaint handling rules that financial businesses  should learn from 
ombudsmens decisions. But its for HSBC to decide  whether,  in light of what happened,  it 
needs to review its procedures for dealing with customers who are at greater risk to harm.  
My role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, and 
(having upheld it) direct  HSBC how it should put things right for Miss S. 
Having reviewed the responses  to my provisional decision, I see no reason  to depart from 
the findings I set out in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint about HSBC UK
Bank Plc and direct the bank to:
Pay Miss S £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Clear the outstanding  balance left when the account was closed.
Remove the default recorded with the credit reference agencies, and amend any 
other internal  or external records to show that Miss S closed the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Ryan Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3873083