K820x#14complaint
M, a firm, acts on behalf of Mr M and Mr B, executors  of the estate  of the late Ms M. They  
are unhappy  that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros has declined their claim 
for water damage under their unoccupied  homes policy.
background
In June 2017 the late Ms Ms home policy with Ocaso was amended to an unoccupied one 
as she had been moved to a care home. The policy was arranged and set up through  
brokers. The policy documents were sent to Mr Bs wife (Mrs B) as she was at that time 
acting as Ms Ms representative.  In October  2017 Ms M sadly died. M asked for the policy  to 
be amended into the executors names, and this was duly done,  although  no new policy was 
issued as it continued on the same  terms as before. M obtained some information relating to 
the policy from Mrs B, although that didnt include the policy itself.
In March 2018 the property suffered extensive water damage  when  a pipe froze.  Ocaso sent 
out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and it was discovered that the pipe froze  because  
the heating had been turned off. There was a general condition  in the policy  requiring that 
the heating be kept on from September to March, or claims  for escape  of water would be 
excluded. As there was a breach of that condition, Ocaso declined  to pay the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that it was the brokers  responsibility to send 
the necessary  documents through.  The broker had confirmed  it had sent the schedule, policy 
document and the unoccupancy clauses through to Mrs B. The terms of the policy didnt 
change when it was transferred into the executors names. M said that the new policy 
documents should have been sent through to it, as it was a completely new policy,  and that 
Ocaso was responsible for ensuring the broker did this. It said that it had received some  
information from Mrs B but Ocaso  couldnt expect  her to be responsible for that.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think first of all I should set out what I understand to be the position  of the broker.  The 
documents show to me that it is an independent  broker, and Ocaso refers to it as acting as 
Ms Ms agent. Indeed at the end of the process  the broker said it wouldnt be placing any 
more policies with Ocaso. So I dont think Ocaso is responsible for any failings on the part of 
the broker.
So, as it was independent and acting  for Ms M/the  executors,  it was the responsibility  of the 
broker to send out the documents,  including the policy,  schedule  and any particular 
conditions that applied to this policy. The broker has said that it sent a full copy  of the policy  
to Mrs B. It also said it sent a copy of the unoccupancy clause to her. As Mrs B was acting at 
the time as Ms Ms agent she would be the appropriate person to send the policy  and the 
condition to.
I make  no finding here as to whether that was sufficient,  as that would be a question  that 
should be addressed as part of a complaint against  the broker.  My understanding  is that the 
Ref: DRN39099222unoccupancy clause is in the general  conditions. This was the clause which set out the 
requirement to keep the house heated. 
I can also make no finding  here as to whether M should have had the new schedule, 
unoccupancy clause and copy of the policy sent to it, rather than relying  on Mrs B to pass 
them over. Again that is an issue that should be raised with the broker.  I would observe here 
that M was aware  that such policies generally do have a clause requiring the unoccupied  
home to be heated in the winter months,  or the system  to be drained  down.  But it didnt 
enquire about the policy when it didnt receive  it from Mrs B, or the broker.
As the documents  were  clearly made  available to the broker  and as it was responsible for 
passing them onto the consumers or their representatives, then I can find no fault with 
Ocaso. M has been advised about the pursuing of complaint against  the broker. That is 
matter for it and its clients.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M on behalf  of 
Mr M and Mr B to accept  or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3909922