K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that esure Insurance Limited  took too long to deal with a claim he 
made under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  with esure.  In July 2017 he reported  an incident where 
he said he was hit in the rear by another driver. Mr S gave esure  the registration details of 
the car but as the other driver didnt exchange  details at the scene, Mr S wasnt  able to 
provide his name.
In July 2018 Mr S complained to esure as the claim was still open. Mr S was unhappy 
because his car hadnt been repaired  as he wanted to put the repairs  for his car on hold 
until the third party  insurer had admitted liability. 
esure accepted that it hadnt  been  proactive in its handling of the claim. It paid Mr S £150 
compensation. 
In October  2018 Mr S made  a second  complaint to esure. Mr S was involved in a second 
incident. Mr S was unhappy that esure didnt provide him with a like for like vehicle while it 
considered repairing his car. 
esure didnt  uphold Mr Ss second complaint. It said it had acted  reasonably as Mr Ss policy 
said it would  provide a small courtesy  car  so not a like for like vehicle. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaints.  
Our investigator thought esure had dealt with Mr Ss second complaint reasonably and in 
line with the policy.  But she thought  it hadnt paid enough compensation to reflect its failure  
to progress the first claim from July 2017.  She found  there were gaps of several  months 
where esure  failed to chase the third party insurer. So she recommended  esure pay Mr S a 
further £200 compensation  bringing  the total amount for its handling of the claim to £350. 
Mr S accepted the investigators view. esure didnt agree.  It believes the recommendation of 
a further £200 is excessive.  
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ss second claim
I think esure acted reasonably by providing  Mr S with a small courtesy car as this was in line 
with the policy.  In any event, esure said it provided an upgraded vehicle for Mr S as a 
goodwill gesture. So I dont think esure  needs to do anymore here.
Ref: DRN34398972Mr Ss first claim 
When liability is in dispute,  these cases can take longer  to settle. But  esure wrote to the 
third party insurer on 4 December 2017  and requested details of the other driver under a 
Section 35 of the Data Protection Act in order to progress the case.  This was five months 
after the incident. However,  it didnt chase the third party insurer  until July 2018  seven 
months later. When it did make contact, the third party insurer said it hadnt received esures 
letter from December 2017.
Mr S sent esure an estimate for the repairs to his car in September  2017 as it requested. 
However, in May 2018 when Mr S chased  for an update, esure asked  him if he still wanted 
to make a claim. This was eight  months  after Mr S had sent esure an estimate  for the repair 
costs.
Mr Ss caseworker  contacted esure in January 2018 and told it about his disability  and 
asked esure  to give his claim priority as the delay was causing  him distress and worry. In 
addition, because the claim was open at renewal stage, Mr S had to pay a higher premium  
which he says caused him financial strain  due to insuring two vehicles. 
esure says that if it makes a successful recovery, it will provide a pro rate refund of Mr Ss 
premium with interest at 8% a year. While I think this is fair, I think  its decision to provide a 
refund is what wed expect an insurer to do once a claim is updated. But because  I think 
esure is responsible  for significant delays  in handling the claim, I dont think this is enough   
with the £150 compensation its already paid  to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
esure said that the total compensation its paid Mr S is £250. But as the investigator 
explained, £100 of this was because of its poor handling of Mr Ss complaint. So it didnt 
contribute to the award for esures handling of the claim.
So I agree with the investigators recommendation for esure to pay Mr S a further £200 
compensation. While theres no guarantee the outcome would have been different, I think 
esure should have  done  more to proactively progress this claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited  to pay Mr S an additional £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3439897