K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  their home insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because  
it declined a claim they made for water  damage and refused to repair a hole a contractor 
had made  in the wall whilst trying to find the leak.
background
Mr and Mrs M noticed a water mark and minor crack on their lounge ceiling. They then 
noticed what they thought  might be a damp patch on a wall in their en-suite bathroom near 
their shower. They contacted the home emergency team  (cover  provided by another 
insurer) and a plumber was sent out. At Mr and Mrs Ms request  the plumber agreed to 
send someone else out the next day as he thought  a hole may need  to be made in a wall.
The next day another plumber attended. His notes  from the visit said the leak was from tiles 
and a hole in the wall was made  to investigate. The hole made went into an adjoining airing 
cupboard, not behind  the tiles of the shower.
Mr and Mrs M contacted Ageas. It said it would send a surveyor to inspect the damage as it 
wasnt satisfied by the findings of the emergency plumber, or the photos hed taken. Ageas 
surveyor attended the property and subsequently called Mr and Mrs M stating their claim 
was declined as the grouting and/or sealant  of the shower had failed causing water  damage
 cover for which is excluded on the policy. They were further told that because  there was 
no successful water damage claim Ageas wouldnt pay to repair  the trace and access  
damage the emergency plumber had caused.  They complained  to this service.
Our investigator felt Ageas should pay to repair the trace and access  damage because  he 
felt the policy wasnt  clear that such damage would only be covered if it related to a 
successful water leak claim. But he felt Ageas decline of the water damage claim had been 
fair given  the report from the emergency  plumber.
Ageas argued  its wording  was clear. Mr and Mrs M were disappointed that the water 
damage claim remained declined but were  pleased to know  the hole would be fixed. They  
said this was especially  important as the matter  had been very upsetting for them  and they 
were also looking to sell their home.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I felt Ageas should  repair,  or 
pay Mr and Mrs M so they could repair, both the water and trace  and access  damage.  I also 
felt it should pay £100 compensation. My provisional  findings  were:
The notes from the emergency  plumber are brief and somewhat inconclusive. He says the 
leak is from the tiles but doesnt say why he thinks this, and also says a hole is needed to 
investigate. If he was sure of the cause I cant see why he would need to investigate. And 
I cant see that the hole in the wall would actually have assisted him in determining the 
cause. Given its location it wouldnt have  shown the rear of the tiles or the area behind  the
shower water pipes. And it was also located well above the area of damp reportedly present 
on an un-tiled part of the bathroom wall.
The photos  provided, as far as establishing a leak from the tiles due to failed grout and 
sealant is concerned,  are also inconclusive. Im not really sure they show  a damp patch on 
the bathroom wall near the shower  door. But they do show  grout and sealant within the 
shower which all appear  to be in good order. There is no sign of mould  or any areas or 
Ref: DRN34325522flaking/missing grout or sealant.  The bathroom doesnt look in an un-kempt state,  or to be 
generally suffering  from any damp or issues caused  by lack of ventilation.
Ageas has sought  to decline  the claim on the basis of a policy exclusion for failed sealant or 
grout. To rely on such Ageas has to be able to show that this was most likely the cause of 
the water  damage  suffered to Mr and Mrs Ms lounge ceiling. Based on the scant evidence 
provided, as discussed  above, Im not persuaded it has done that. As such Im going to 
require it to accept  the claim and resolve  the damage or pay Mr and Mrs M to resolve it.
Ageas has explained that the general cover for water damage also offers  cover  for damage 
caused whilst tracing and accessing  the leak. Ageas then will need  to repair  or pay
Mr and Mrs M to repair the hole in their wall made by the emergency plumber. Further, if for 
some reason, Ageas should convince me that it would be unfair and unreasonable  for me to 
make it accept the water damage claim, Id still be minded to make it cover  the trace and 
access repair.
Ageas clearly intended to only cover the cost of repairing trace  and access  damage if a 
claim for water damage succeeds. But that is not quite what its policy says. To Ageas and 
myself it is clear that is the case  and that is in line with what most insurers  offer. However,  
what the policy says on this is:
D. Tracing  and accessing leaks inside the home.
The insurance provided by paragraphs 7 and 9 of section 1 [escape  of water or oil] also 
covers the reasonable costs involved in tracing  the source of the escape of water or 
leakage of oil and replacement or repair of any walls, floors or ceilings (including  fixtures  
and fittings attached to them), inside the home  where this damage  occurs in the course of 
these investigations.  The most the insurer will pay is £5,000.
Nowhere does the policy expressly  set out that the associated claim made  under 
paragraphs 7 and 9 has to be successful.  A bit of knowledge and a few extra words have to 
be applied  to this term to get that meaning.  Therefore the policy  is unclear and as is the 
general approach  of this service the unclear term is interpreted in favour of the policyholder.
I can see this matter  has been upsetting for Mr and Mrs M. Not least as they reasonably 
expected the trace  and access  damage, at least, to be covered. It would be difficult  to sell a 
home with such damage present, but if this has been causing issues for the sale the 
reasonable action for Mr and Mrs M to have  taken would be to fix the damage. Although that 
would come at a cost that would have to be weighed against the bigger more  important  issue 
of selling the home. For the upset Im satisfied theyve reasonably suffered due to Ageas 
unfair decline of their claim, Im satisfied £100  compensation  is due.
Mr and Mrs M said they were pleased by my findings. Ageas said it would agree to the 
trace and access damage being  covered and didnt comment on the compensation award. 
Regarding the water  damage it objected to my findings.
Ageas reiterated  that the initial findings  regarding the leak were  that it had been  caused  by 
failed grout/sealant.  It also reiterated  that water  damaged caused  in this way is excluded 
from cover. It said the photos show areas  of grout/sealant which  have eroded away  and 
left behind gaps . It surmised that the damp patch on the wall is also indicative of an 
on-going issue.  Ageas  maintained its decline of the claim had been reasonable based on 
the evidence it had seen.
Ref: DRN34325523my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate there were some initial views on the cause of damage but they were just that  
initial. The report recommended further investigations but made no further  conclusions.
The photos  taken   and which I scrutinised when making my provisional decision  dont 
suggest those  initial findings were likely accurate. And I dont agree with Ageas comment 
made in response  to my provisional  findings that the photos  show missing  areas  of 
grout/sealant that would  likely  have  caused the damage in question. My view of the photos 
remains as that provisionally stated  they show a bathroom in fair condition with no 
obvious signs of wear (not even damp) that might reasonably lead to a conclusion that the 
initial theory as to the cause of the leak was most  likely accurate. 
I appreciate that Ageas  felt it had done all it needed to and that it was up to Mr and Mrs M 
to show if there was another cause of damage, other than the initial theory regarding 
grout/sealant. However, the term regarding failed  grout/sealant is an exclusion. It is up to 
Ageas to show it is justified in relying on that exclusion to decline the claim  it wasnt up to 
Mr and Mrs M to show it was wrong (by establishing another  cause of damage). My view 
here is, for the reasons  stated, that Ageas hasnt  justified its reliance made in this respect 
and its decline of the water damage  claim was unfair and unreasonable. 
Im pleased to note Ageas accepted my findings  regarding  the trace and access damage.  
I note neither party objected to my compensation award.
Having considered the responses of the parties,  Ive no reason to change my view on this 
complaint as provisionally stated. My provisional  findings are now part of the findings  of 
this, my final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to:
Accept both the claim for water and trace and access damage.  It will need to arrange 
repair of the ceiling  and the hole in the wall in the bathroom, or pay Mr and Mrs M so 
they can do this. 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3432552