K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that his home insurance  policy with Ageas Insurance  Limited  (Ageas) didnt 
cover the full value  of his losses following a burglary.
background 
Mr Ms home  was burgled, and jewellery  was taken. Ageas initially refused to consider the 
claim on the grounds that Mr M hadnt met the security and protections requirements  of the 
policy  an intruder alarm on the house wasnt set. This service issued an opinion that Ageas 
should consider  the claim because having an alarm fitted to the house  wasnt  a requirement  
when Mr M bought the policy. Ageas  agreed  to settle the claim adding  8% simple interest per 
year from the date of the theft to the date of payment.
Mr M said the jewellery taken was worth close to £29,900. Ageas offered him £5,000. They  
said this was in line with the policy limitation  for stolen  jewellery.
Mr M complained that Ageas should give him the full sum insured for contents  - £25,000.
policy terms and conditions
When Mr M took out his policy,  he chose  Contents cover to the value of £25,000  and 
General Valuables and Personal Possessions cover to the value of £6,000.
In the definitions section of the policy under Contents it said:
Gold, silver, gold and silver plated articles,  other  precious metals, jewellery, watches 
and furs up to £5,000 or 20% of the sum insured  for contents whichever is less, within 
the property (subject  to a single article limit of £1,500)
The policy definition of Valuables read:
Jewellery and watches,  Furs,  Gold, silver, other  precious metals, gold and silver 
plated articles 
The Policy  Summary described the Valuables  and Personal Possessions cover  like so:
To insure your valuables and personal  possessions that either  exceed  the limits of 
cover under the contents section or to cover  them for accidental loss or damage 
anywhere in the world  
our investigators opinion
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and said Ageas should increase the settlement 
figure by £1,000, to £6,000, with 8% interest. She came to this conclusion because  Mr M had 
General Valuables and Personal Possessions cover to the value of £6,000.  She also said 
they should pay £100 for the trouble  and upset theyd caused  by getting the settlement figure 
wrong.
Ageas accepted this. Mr M didnt agree with the outcome. He asked for an ombudsman to 
consider everything  afresh. He said his sum insured for Contents was £25,000 and he 
Ref: DRN37547002should receive that amount. He said that the losses had great  sentimental value attached to 
them.
Ageas further  settlement offer
Having reviewed the schedule and the policy booklet I agreed  that Mr Ms schedule included  
£25,000 for contents (limited to £5,000,  or 20% of the sum insured for contents, for jewellery)  
and a further £6,000  for valuables. So, I asked the Ageas  to explain why Mr M hadnt been 
offered £6,000 for valuables  in addition to the £5,000 theyd offered under the contents 
section of the policy.
Ageas reviewed my question and agreed  that the wording  of the policy  in this instance did 
mean that Mr M could  also be paid the limit on his valuables  cover (£6,000). This further 
payment brought the total settlement offer to £12,670.20.
Mr M remained unhappy with this, so I considered the matter and issued a provisional 
decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to partly uphold Mr Ms complaint. But I found 
Ageass further  settlement offer fair in all the circumstances. I said:
 Im minded to agree  with the investigators  opinion that Ageas shouldve 
considered Mr Ms policy schedule in more detail when  reviewing  his claim. Had they 
done so they would have  noticed earlier that he had General Valuables and Personal 
Possessions cover in addition to Contents cover. And that the wording of the policy  in 
this instance allowed  his claim to be paid under both sections.
Now theyve accepted  that hes due a payment  under the valuables cover  and agreed 
to pay him an additional  £6,000, I cant say that they should  do any more. I think 
Ageas have acted  fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms.
Mr M thinks that because he chose contents  cover to the value of £25,000, he should 
receive that amount in full. But there was a clear limit for jewellery  claims in the 
contents cover section of the policy, and I find that Ageas have applied  the policy 
limits as they were  entitled to do.
Although Im sorry that Mr M and his family have lost a substantial amount of 
jewellery in this burglary, which has caused  them both financial and emotional 
distress, the insurance policy he bought didnt cover him for all his losses here. A 
contract of insurance is an agreement  to indemnify a customer up to a certain  amount  
when an insured loss occurs.  Here, unfortunately,  Mr M didnt specifically declare and 
insure all his jewellery. And so there was a limit on what  Ageas had to pay. If hed let 
Ageas know in advance that he had more valuable jewellery that he wanted  to insure 
then I expect this could have been added to his policy. Ageas would no doubt  have  
wanted to charge him an additional premium though.
I appreciate that the amount Ageas are offering is not what  Mr M thinks hes due. But 
Ive looked carefully  at the case and I think Ageass offer is fair.
Ref: DRN37547003Ageas accepted my provisional decision. Mr M asked me to have another look at his case  
and consider that he had cover for £25,000.  He said his loss was much  above that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, although I know  Mr M will 
be disappointed, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.  For the reasons I 
set out in that decision, I still think Ageass offer to settle Mr Ms claim is fair.
I realise Mr M feels strongly that because he chose contents cover to the value  of £25,000, 
he should receive that amount. But Ageas were  entitled  to apply the limits for jewellery 
claims as clearly set out in the policy.
Although Ageas initially offered Mr M only £5,000,  they have  now accepted that this was 
incorrect, and that Mr M had cover to a total value of £11,000. As Ageas  are offering to put 
this right,  I think theyve  acted fairly,  and there is no basis on which I can ask them  to do 
more.
I am sorry  that Mr M lost so much of monetary  and sentimental value in the burglary, but I 
find he wasnt covered  by Ageas for all of these  losses.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
If they have not already done  so, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay the additional 
£6,000 theyve offered, bringing the total settlement figure for Mr Ms claim to £12,670.20.
I think this amount includes what he was covered for under the policy (£11,000) and also 
compensates Mr M for the time this claim has taken to resolve, and the trouble and upset  
caused by that delay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3754700