K820x#14complaint
M Limited, represented by Mr W a director, complains about Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) increasing its card transaction processing charges in July 2018. Mr W wants  
the additional charges refunded.
background
Mr W is unhappy with Barclays increased charges for the mobile payment terminal used by 
the company.  He says they increased  from 0.22% to 1.25% in July 2018. He also says 
Barclays didnt make him aware  of the change and that he didnt receive a letter Barclays 
says it sent to the company. Mr W also denies  Barclays suggestion that he was told of the 
changes in a phone  call. He says there  was no call. 
Barclays agreed it had made  an error and that it didnt  discuss the increased charges with 
Mr W on the phone.  And it paid him £50 compensation for the misinformation given.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
M Limited entered into a contract  with Barclays in 2016 for it to process  card 
transactions. Its bound by the terms and conditions of that agreement.
The terms and conditions say that Barclays may change the terms and conditions at 
any time and this includes introducing new charges or fees or changing the rates  of 
existing ones. They also say it will normally give at least two months notice of any 
changes but that may not be the case in some circumstances.  Here Barclays  has 
acted in line with these terms and conditions. It hasnt made an error.  
Mr W says he didnt receive  a letter sent by Barclays  around  June 2018.  But it was 
correctly addressed to the company and sent by post. Its not Barclays fault if it 
wasnt received.
We cant tell a business to change its processes, procedures  or how it communicates  
with its customers. Those  are matters for the regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Barclays agrees it incorrectly said itd told Mr W about the changes on the phone. 
And its paid £50 compensation for this. Thats fair and reasonable and she cant  ask 
it to pay any more.
Mr W doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says its unfair to tell 
someone of such a significant  change of more than 500% in charges in just one letter.  At 
least two letters of unrecorded post followed up by a phone call or one recorded  letter  would 
be fair. A consumer organisation says one million letters a week go missing  in the post.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38842782I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Although I recognise  Mr Ws frustration the simple fact is the terms and conditions in the 
agreement between M Limited  and Barclays  allow  Barclays to change  the charges it applies 
and the rates used. And in this case Barclays also gave appropriate notice of these changes 
by post. Its not Barclays fault if that the letter, which was correctly addressed, has 
apparently gone  astray  in the post.
Mr W believes Barclays made an error by sending only one letter about the changes which 
he says clearly couldve been lost in the post. But the way Barclays  communicates with its 
customers is a matter  for it to decide upon.  
Mr W has suggested ways in which Barclays should  change its procedures. But as the 
investigator has said this service isnt a regulator and we cant require a business to change 
its practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Overall I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Barclays to do anything  differently or 
pay any more compensation as Mr W would like. And I dont see any reason to change  the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W as a director  
of and on behalf of M Limited, to accept  or reject  my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3884278