K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that her account was defaulted, closed and passed on to debt collectors 
incorrectly by NewDay Ltd trading  as Marbles after she got into arrears.  
background
Mrs B got into arrears on her account  and she agreed a no fee arrangement  to pay back the 
arrears in May 2018. She was expected  to make two payments of £40 to bring  her account 
up to date and with this arrangement no further fees would be charged. Mrs B made  the first 
payment of £40 towards the end of May 2018  and was due to make the second payment on 
25 June 2018.  
Mrs B called New Day a few days after making  the first payment as she was getting arrears 
letters  she says she also wanted to make the second payment but was told not to make 
the payment and asked to set up a direct debit to collect future payments which she did. The 
direct debt was cancelled, and no payment was taken Mrs B fell into further arrears and was 
charged further late and over limit fees. 
New Day said they did set up a no fee agreement  in May 2018 for Mrs B to make  two 
payments of £40. They also set up a direct debt on the account to collect payment from the 
end of July 2018. But as no payment was received for June 2018 her account  reverted to its 
normal arrangement  and so arrears  and late fees were applied  again. New Day passed  the 
account onto their debt recovery agency in August 2018 and closed the account  in 
September 2018 as no payment had been made on the account since May 2018. 
Mrs B said was unaware of this until she started  to get further letters saying she was in 
arrears in August  2018. She called New Day but was unable  to resolve the issue, so she 
made a complaint. New Day upheld her complaint for providing her incorrect  information 
regarding the direct debt and as a gesture of goodwill  they refunded her late fees,  over limit 
fees and made an additional payment of £20 to the account. Mrs B remained unhappy the 
account had been defaulted and closed so referred the complaint to our Service.
Our investigator thought New Day dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly. New Day had admitted they 
could have provided clearer information and she could see theyd refunded  the five charges and 
added the additional £20 to the account. But she didnt think New Day had done anything  wrong  
in defaulting the account, appointing the recovery agent and closing the account.  
Mrs B wasnt  happy. She said if shed  known the direct debit had been  cancelled, she would 
have paid the arrears  and when she did try to pay over the phone  prior to the direct debit 
being cancelled  she was told she didnt have to  so she felt it wasnt  fair for New Day to 
default and close  her account.  
Because I wanted  to explain my reasons in a bit more detail and give both parties  a chance 
to reply, I decided to issue a provisional  decision before I made  my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking before I made the final decision  which  is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word  on the case. 
Ref: DRN30841142my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mrs B says she agreed to no fee arrangement but when she called to make the second 
payment it was refused, and she said she was told to set up a direct  debt to collect 
payments. She says she now understand that she shouldnt have been asked to set this 
up as her account was in arrears and so no direct  debt could  be set up on the account 
when in arrears. 
She told us she though  the upcoming  payments  would be taken by direct  debt and only 
realised they hadnt when  she got the arrears letters in August 2018. She says the 
arrears were  caused by New Day cancelling the direct debt so her account shouldnt  have  
been defaulted and closed as it was their fault the direct debt was set up and cancelled. 
New Day have told us that Mrs B missed  the second payment due on her no fee 
arrangement and this meant the account  stayed in arrears. It has admitted it could have  
been clearer about the direct debt being  cancelled  so has refunded  the late fees and over 
limit charges  as well as providing a further £20 credit on the account.
I have listened  to all the calls between Mrs B and New Day from when she agreed the no 
fee arrangement. Mrs B said that on the call in which the direct  debt was set up the agent 
refused to take the second payment for the no fee arrangement. Having listened to this 
call that wasnt the case  the agent suggested setting up the direct debt to start from 28 
June 2018 so Mrs B would need  to call back to set this up. During the call the agent said 
on a couple of occasions that Mrs B would  still need  to pay the final payment under the 
no fee agreement  on 25 June 2018 so her account wouldnt go back  into arrears.  Mrs B 
didnt offer to make  this payment during this call or the other calls that Ive listened to. 
My understanding is because Mrs B didnt make  this payment the account remained in 
arrears and so the direct  debt set up for 28 June 2018 was cancelled shortly after being 
set up, as in a later call another agent  explains that a direct debt cant  be set up on an 
account thats in arrears.   
Mrs Bs account was in arrears from April 2018  and she hadnt made a payment after the 
end of February 2018. New Day issued a default  notice in May 2018 which explained what  
she needed to do to avoid further action being  taken  by New Day including the sharing of 
details of her account with credit reference agencies. This prompted  Mrs B to call New Day 
and agree a no fee arrangement but this arrangement wasnt completed,  and no further 
payments were made  by Mrs B from May 2018  despite her receiving further statements and 
reminders from New Day setting out the arrears. During a call in August 2018 Mrs B said 
she wouldnt  make  a further payment until her complaint was resolved. We wouldnt  expect 
a bank to suspend payments in this situation during a complaints process.  So, although I 
know Mrs B will be very disappointed with my decision, I cant fairly find New Day did 
anything wrong  when it defaulted, suspended and closed her account. 
Ref: DRN30841143I know Mrs B thinks New Day shouldnt have  done this as it didnt tell her that the direct 
debt had been cancelled but she still had an obligation to make  payments. I can see she 
would have received various  statements and letters about the arrears, but she didnt 
make any payments or agree any further  arrangement. I know  the account  was passed to 
the recovery agency, but she could  still have agreed to make payments  while  the 
complaint was looked into. And as New Day has an obligation to accurately report  the 
history of such an account, I cant ask them to remove any defaults from Mrs Bs record.  
Mrs B is also unhappy that New Day hasnt agreed  to reopen the account. But New Day 
is entitled to decide who its willing to provide lending facilities  to and it would not be fair 
for me to force them to re-open an account where they have had concerns.
 
New Day has already  agreed to refund  the charges applied to Mrs Bs account between  
June and August  and paid a further  £20 for the incorrect information provided   so I will 
not be asking  them to do anything further.  I understand that Mrs B will be disappointed  
with my decision  but for the reasons Ive given  I think New Day has dealt reasonably  with 
her complaint. And I cant fairly  ask New Day to do anything more.
On that basis, I was wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Mrs B and New Day responded to my provisional  decision. New Day had nothing  further  to 
add and Mrs B didnt raise  any new points  which  I hadnt  already considered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  
Id like to reassure Mrs B that I have  considered  all the information provided by both parties 
and Ive listened to the calls and considered  the relevant correspondence between  her and 
New Day. And I understand that Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision  but for the 
reasons Ive given  I think New Day has dealt reasonably  with her complaint. And I cant  fairly  
ask New Day to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3084114