K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Prestige Finance Limited is unfairly asking her to repay a loan she 
didnt receive. She asks that the debt is written off or shes given the loan money. 
The loan was taken  out jointly with Mrs Hs late husband (Mr H). The executors of Mr Hs 
estate have consented to us looking into this complaint.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a 25 year secured loan of about £41,000 (plus  fees)  in October 2007. 
The loan has since been transferred to another lender and is serviced  by Prestige Finance. 
Mr and Mrs H intended to use the loan to repay debts and for home improvements. 
Mrs H says the lenders solicitor sent them a cheque for about £31,000. But Mr H became ill 
and they forgot to cash it. Mrs H says she found the cheque after Mr H died in 2017. 
Prestige said Mr and Mrs H borrowed about £41,000. Part was used to pay arrears on their 
existing mortgages.  A cheque was sent for the balance (about £31,000). Its records say Mr 
and Mrs H intended to use this to repay unsecured loans and credit card accounts totalling 
about £30,000. Due to the time that has passed,  Prestige was unable to provide evidence  
that the cheque was cashed. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
only one of the loan and credit  card accounts appeared on Mrs Hs credit  file. This 
suggested the other debts were repaid more than six years ago. The loan and credit  card 
providers had limited  information about  whether  the accounts  were repaid in 2007.
Mr and Mrs H took out the loan to consolidate  existing debts which were unaffordable. 
Prestige said it was unlikely theyd have been  able to make the loan payments in 
addition to their existing outgoings. 
Mrs H said shed repaid the debts using refunds of about £30,000 related to payment 
protection insurance and bank charges. The investigator said while  he could see 
evidence of some of these refunds paid into Mrs Hs current  account he couldnt see 
theyd been used to repay the debts.
on balance, it was more likely  the cheque was re-issued and cashed in 2007. So it 
wasnt reasonable to require  Prestige  to re-issue the cheque  or write off the debt.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said £31,000  was left after theyd paid their debts. She said she 
thought the loan repayments were for a loan taken  out to pay the arrears on their mortgages. 
Mrs H said no further cheque had been sent and theyd been  making  loan payments for 
many years for a loan they didnt  receive.  She doesnt consider this to be fair or legal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN32816702words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs H took out a secured loan in 2007.  Nor is there any 
dispute that the lenders solicitor transferred part of the proceeds to Mr and Mrs Hs existing 
secured lenders and issued a cheque  for the balance  about  £31,000   to Mr and Mrs H. 
Mrs H says this cheque  wasnt  cashed.  She says she didnt receive the benefit  of the loan. 
Unfortunately, due to the time passed, theres  limited evidence available  about what 
happened in 2007. Mrs Hs bank can only provide statements from early 2010. So I have to 
decide what is most likely to have happened. In doing so, Ive taken the following into 
account.
Mrs H says she still has the cheque  from the lenders solicitor. This suggests  it wasnt  
cashed. However, this doesnt  mean  the lender or its solicitor  didnt issue  a new cheque 
or make the payment  another way, such as by bank  transfer.
The lenders records from 2007 say Mr and Mrs H took out the loan to consolidate debts. 
Their debt repayments exceeded  their income.  I think it would have been difficult for Mr 
and Mrs H to pay the loan and meet their other outgoings if they hadnt repaid their 
unsecured debts in 2007.
It was a condition  of the loan that the arrears on the secured debts were paid. While  the 
lenders records say that Mr and Mrs H intended  to repay  unsecured debts of about  
£30,000, this wasnt a condition of the loan. So Mr and Mrs H could have chosen not to 
repay some or all of the unsecured debts with the loan proceeds.  
One credit card provider provided  evidence that the account  balance (about £5,000)  was 
repaid in October 2007  Mrs H told it shed taken out a loan. Another says the balance 
wasnt repaid and this account is still shown on Mrs Hs credit  report. The other  
unsecured lenders  cant provide  evidence  from that time. 
Mrs H provided  her credit report dated  October 2018. Only one of the unsecured  debts 
listed in the lenders records appears, which suggests the others were repaid more than 
six years  earlier  (that is, before October 2012). 
Mrs H says the debts were repaid using refunds related to payment  protection insurance 
and bank charges.  These refunds were received some time after the loan was taken out. 
So Mr and Mrs H would have had to meet  the loan repayments and their existing debts 
(which theyd said were unaffordable)  in the meantime. Mrs Hs bank statements dont 
suggest the refunds were used to repay  the credit  card and loan accounts. 
Mrs Hs bank statements for 2010 show payments to one of the unsecured lenders  the 
same one that appears on her credit report and which confirmed the balance wasnt 
repaid in 2007. There are no payments to the other unsecured creditors.  This suggests 
the debts were paid before 2010. 
Mrs H says they received the cheque from the lenders  solicitor. She says they put it 
safely aside and then forgot to cash it as Mr H was unwell. Mr and Mrs H made loan 
payments and they would have received loan statements.  When  they applied for the 
loan, Mr and Mrs H were  struggling  to meet the repayments  for their unsecured debts.  If 
these debts hadnt been repaid  with the loan proceeds theyd have needed to find the 
Ref: DRN32816703money each month to pay them  as well as the payments for the new loan. I think  all of 
this would have  been enough to remind them of the need to cash the £31,000  cheque. 
And Mrs H repaid one of her debts, telling the credit card provider shed taken out a loan. 
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs H did receive  the £31,000. In the circumstances, I dont think  
its fair and reasonable to require Prestige  to write  off the debt or re-issue the cheque.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
executors of the estate of the late Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281670