K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about AXA Insurance UK Plc. All references to AXA also include 
their agents.  
background
Mr and Mrs M held buildings  cover  with AXA and made a claim following  damage to their 
house. AXA accepted there had been  damage  but felt the external damage  was down to 
wear and tear, which the policy didnt cover. The internal damage AXA considered as three 
separate areas, they felt the cost of each areas  repair was below the policy  excess  of £500. 
AXA did however accept there were some delays in communication, and offered £100 
compensation for that. Mr and Mrs M complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and although they felt the compensation for 
communication issues should be increased by £100  they didnt uphold  the rest of the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman review. AXA also disagreed with 
the investigator and wanted the case referred to an ombudsman. They didnt think  they 
should pay the extra £100.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing the investigators view of the case. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Ms house had recently had a considerable amount of work  done on it, but 
unfortunately the roof does seem to have  still been in a poor condition.  As well as AXAs  
building report on the claim I have also seen a number of photographs of the roof. It does 
appear there  are issues here with wear  and tear and upkeep,  and as the policy requires the 
property to be kept in good condition, and equally doesnt cover damage caused  by wear 
and tear, I dont think I can ask AXA to pay any claim linked  to the roof issues. 
Turning to the external damage  some  of this appears to be directly  related to the roof issue, 
including the possibility that some  cleaning work  on the roof allowed some further water 
damage. Again I wouldnt expect a policy to cover that, it might be something Mr and Mrs M 
would want to take up with the contractors who cleaned the roof. 
Some of the other damage the buildings  report has attributed to water ingress from the roof 
over a long period of time. Having read the report this doesnt  seem implausible and I 
havent really seen any evidence from Mr and Mrs M to counteract  this. Again it would fail 
under the upkeep and wear and tear conditions of the policy.  
Finally the other area damaged seems to be below  a shower  room,  and here AXA suggest 
the shower seal has not been in good condition for some time. Again there are photographs  
to support this hypothesis. This evidence coupled with the view that works  to repair this area, 
but not the shower, would  be below  the policy excess means I dont think  an award  is due 
here either. 
I do realise that Mr and Mrs M think we have  misled ourselves here with the wear and tear 
aspects as they just had their house re-plastered and re-painted, but that isnt the issue.  The 
Ref: DRN30098262wear and tear issue is the roof, and AXA dont have to pay a claim if it stems from water 
coming in through the roof if that isnt in a reasonable  state  of repair.  And although Mr and 
Mrs M claimed  for storm damage it does seem that water came in due to the state of the roof 
rather than just because  there was a storm. 
As for AXA and communications I would have expected them  to have  had better contact with 
Mr and Mrs M, at least through  their agents. So when Mr and Mrs M were  seeking answers 
and clearly in a distressed state after the damage  to their home I think  AXA, or its agents, 
should have done more.  For that reason I think AXA should pay the additional £100 
suggested by the investigator. 
my final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay an additional  £100 for distress here, I make no other  
award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009826