K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains through  his representative  that the fees charged  to his mortgage  account 
now administered by Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage  Credit are excessive. He would 
like those fees reversed.
background
Mr A has been in arrears  on his account  and claims through his representative that the fees 
charged by Engage are excessive. Engage looked  at the complaint. Its view was that it 
wasnt required to look at any fees that were  charged more  than six years before the 
complaint was brought so looked at those fees that were charged since  3 July 2012. Engage 
accepted that it should  reverse some of the Monthly  Arrears Fees  (MAFs)  in those months  
where Mr A had paid at least the monthly  contractual payment. These came to £360.
Our adjudicators view was that in addition Engage should reverse  the MAFs in two months  
where a means  tested  payment  towards  the mortgage was made by the DWP  and in another 
month where  both a legal  charge and a MAF  were charged.  This was an additional  £120.
Engage accepted that it should reverse the MAF where a legal fee was also charged.  But it 
felt that as in the other two months  the monthly payment made by the DWP  fell below the 
contractual monthly payment  that it was fair to charge an arrears  fee.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only looked  at the charges raised  on this account in the last six years  which is the 
period prescribed  under our rules. I note that Engage accepts that and Mr As representative 
hasnt raised any objection.
Both Engage and our adjudicator have fairly considered the fees and the only dispute  
involves the MAFs raised in September and October  2012. Our view is that arrears fees 
should be fairly charged. In looking at that I have to consider several matters including  the 
effort put in by the lender  to warrant its fee, what the likely benefit would be and how the 
borrower responds to that. 
Where the DWP makes  a means  tested  monthly payment, it may be a situation where little 
arrears activity takes place as the borrower isnt able to contribute  to the arrears  and so little 
benefit may be gained by that activity. That isnt always the case  so Ive looked  at the actual 
level of arrears activity in the months  in question. I note in those two months that according  
to the contact notes  there was in fact no contact with Mr A. There  seem to have been  two 
fairly standard letters sent out including one referring to a field agent visit in the future. The 
level of arrears activity appears to be minimal.
So, weighing these  factors  up, my view is that during these two months it would be unfair for 
the lender to charge  a fee. So, I agree with our adjudicator that in addition  to the £360 which 
Engage agreed  to reverse,  it should also reverse a further £120 of charges as set out in her 
view of 28 November 2018 together with the associated interest.  
Ref: DRN30564542   
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Pepper (UK) Limited to reverse  £480 of 
charges on Mr As account  together with the associated  interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3056454