K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the refurbishment  charges  he has received following the termination 
of his hire purchase  agreement with Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFSL).
background
In December 2014 Mr R acquired a new car financed by a hire purchase agreement  with 
VFSL. The agreement was for four years and the vehicle cash  price was above £55,000. In 
May 2018 Mr R voluntarily terminated the agreement.
VFSL used a third party, B, to carry out a final inspection, which identified possible damage 
that may incur refurbishment charges, in line with the hire purchase agreement  terms and 
conditions. In June  VFSL invoiced  Mr R for refurbishment charges totalling  £1,090.30 
(exclusive of VAT). There were 11 separate charges on the report. Mr R complained,  and 
disputed seven of the charges for damages he said should be considered  fair wear  and tear. 
The total of disputed charges is £734.40.
In its final response VFSL  said it was satisfied all the charges fell outside fair wear  and tear 
and confirmed that in its opinion they were correct.  It said it relies  on the information 
recorded within the inspection report from B and that B is independently audited. Mr R 
brought his complaint to this service. Mr R said he is familiar with the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines  and that he believes the inspector had been 
over-zealous. 
Our adjudicator consulted  the BVRLA  guidelines and initially concluded that five of the 
charges had not been applied correctly. He determined  that two charges had and that Mr R 
should pay these.  
VFSL challenged this view. It said it agreed to waive one further  charge  for the dent on the 
left rear door but said the other charges were still in line with the guidelines.  The adjudicator 
issued a second view but maintained that VFSL hadnt acted  fairly  and should waive  the 
remaining £662.40 of charges.
VFSL asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. It said the vehicle had been  returned in 
an unreasonable condition and it had suffered  a loss of over £9,000  when the car was 
eventually sold. 
I issued a provisional decision to Mr R and VFSL on 10 December 2019. I considered 
VFSLs view, Mr Rs view and the adjudicators view alongside new evidence  from Mr Rs 
insurance company,  D and the cars MOT History. In my provisional decision I said:  
 Mr R made  four insurance claims during the period he had the car. Two may be 
relevant to the damage which is the subject of this complaint.  There  is no evidence  
on the MOT history of any damage.
1. Bumper: Im satisfied  there is a dull patch  which could indicate an unsatisfactory  
finish. D has reported Mr R made a claim in October 2016 which appears to 
contradict Mr Rs comment that there has been  no damage. D said the front under-
tray snapped off, lower  bumper  scratched, number plates  damaged  and repairs  
were completed. Its possible this is the same location  as the dull patch. Subject to 
Ref: DRN35834762any further evidence  I might receive  Im minded to conclude this charge has been  
applied correctly. (£110.40)
2 & 3. Left and right front doors: the rippled  effect is not clear to see, though  I dont 
dispute there is the appearance of something  like that. Mr R has said he was told the 
damage wouldve  been from the car being  T-boned twice - where the front of one 
vehicle crashes into the side of another. He said he invited  the inspector to contact 
his insurance company  for proof but he did not. 
Given Mr R made four claims to the insurance  company for other incidents and 
vandalism it seems likely  he would have  made  further claims if the car had been T-
boned, the impact of which would have required substantial repair,  twice.  But there 
are no such claims. And Mr R did not change his insurance provider. Its possible the 
ripple effect could  have  been reflection or developed over time e.g. degradation of 
paintwork. Its also possible the car was supplied like that but this seems  unlikely 
given its value. 
VFSL did provide a link to a video of the inspection which  this service was unable  to 
access. So I have  to rely on the photos and while I dont  dispute there  is some  
possible distortion  of paintwork I am not persuaded there has been any damage  on 
either door. I believe it likely Mr R would have claimed on his insurance as he had for 
other incidents so I believe  it likely the insurance  company would  have had a record 
of it. And so, subject  to further evidence, I cant agree  these charges have been 
applied correctly. 
4. Left hand  rear door: The business  has agreed to remove this charge. 
5. Right hand  rear door dent: Im satisfied this dent is greater than 10mm and 
therefore the charge has been applied correctly.  (£36)
6. Left hand  rear quarter: After examining all the photos its really  not clear  to me that 
this dent is on the swage line or greater than 10mm. D has said Mr R made an 
insurance claim in February  2019  for repairs  to near side back corner.  The near 
side is generally considered to be the left of the driver. But as repairs were  completed 
it seems unlikely this claim is related to the dent. So subject to further information Im 
minded to say I dont  agree this charge has been applied correctly.  
7. Right hand  rear alloy wheel: The fair wear and tear guidelines state that scuffs 
totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels 
are acceptable. There are clearly two scuffs on the wheel but there is no 
measurement of how long they are. Having  examined the wheel photo I dont believe 
the total length of the scuffs exceeds  50mm. So subject to further  evidence  Im 
minded to say I dont  agree this charge has been applied correctly.  
I was minded to say Mr R should pay refurbishment charges of £146.40 (£36 + £110.40) and 
VFSL should  waive £588. These  charges are exclusive  of VAT. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN35834763my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr R and VFSL have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to change  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must waive  £588  of the 
charges. For the avoidance of doubt this means  Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited 
will charge  Mr R £146.40 in refurbishment charges.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3583476