K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the way in which Barclays Bank  UK PLC has dealt with his 
mortgage account. Specifically, Mr P says that the bank agreed that he could  pay his arrears  
off over the remaining term of the loan. He was waiting for Barclays to set up this payment 
schedule, but 12-14 months later, the bank took legal action. Mr P says he was then forced  
to pay £15,000  to stop the eviction.
background
The history  of this matter goes back a number of years but I will summarise the events 
briefly. Mr P has a mortgage  account  with Barclays which has been  in arrears since at least 
2002. In 2011 a suspended possession order was granted in favour  of Barclays.  Since 2012 
the terms on which the possession order was suspended have been breached several  times,  
and there  have been various applications  for warrants of eviction, all of which  have been 
suspended.
In 2014 payments were missed. In April 2014 Barclays spoke to Mr P, who said hed need 
time to make  payment. In August 2014,  with no payment made,  a field agent was instructed 
but Mr P refused to discuss his mortgage with the agent. 
In October  2014 Mr P told Barclays that hed been trying to make payment but for the 
previous 12 months  Barclays automated payment system had been rejecting his payments. 
(Mr P had not mentioned  this when he spoke to Barclays  in April 2014.) Mr P said he had 
£12,000 sitting in his account  for him to make the payments. 
Between 5-7 November  2014 Mr P made  credits to the account totalling £13,675.71, 
Barclays suspended  the impending eviction.
No further payment was made  until 3 March 2016, when Mr P paid £4,010 to the account. 
Nothing has been paid since. Barclays has put enforcement action on hold, because  Mr P 
complained to us.
The complaint was that Mr P said Barclays had agreed he could pay the arrears  over the 
remaining term of the mortgage and that someone  would contact him about this. But nobody  
did. Instead Barclays started legal action. Mr P had to pay a lump sum of £15,000  to stop the 
eviction.
Barclays said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. In summary the bank said that it had 
never agreed with Mr P that he could  pay the arrears over the remaining term of the loan. 
The court had fixed the repayment schedule, which was that he would pay £1,000 per 
month, to include the current  instalment, but he hadnt kept to that arrangement.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He found no 
evidence in either Barclays or its solicitors records to suggest  the bank had ever agreed to 
Mr P paying  off the arrears over the remaining term.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators findings. Mr P says that he feels  very strongly about 
this matter. He cant see how a bank can promise something and then leave him hanging in 
the air for such a long period of time. Mr P has confirmed that he has kept aside all the 
payments but says that the banks solicitors had told him not to make the payment to the 
account because  he was waiting to hear from the elusive negotiating person.
Ref: DRN44533872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have 
disappointing news for Mr P; Im not upholding his complaint. These  are my reasons.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr P says he was told by Barclays  solicitors that he could 
spread repayment  of his arrears over the remaining term of his mortgage.  Mr P claims that 
the solicitors told him not to make  any payments  until someone  from Barclays  contacted him 
to negotiate the terms. But because Barclays didnt  contact him, Mr P withheld payment and 
it was only on threat  of eviction that he had to pay £15,000.
Ive reviewed the account history, the contact notes and all the correspondence from 
Barclays and its solicitors.  I can see nothing in any of these documents  to suggest that either 
Barclays or its solicitors ever told Mr P not to make  payment and to wait until he was 
contacted by Barclays about negotiating a new payment arrangement.
The account  history  doesnt show any payment of £15,000. There  was a payment of 
£13,675.71 made to the account in November 2014. Mr Ps reasons for not having paid his 
mortgage leading  up to that lump  sum payment was that Barclays automated  system had 
rejected his attempts to make monthly repayments. 
The next payment  was a lump sum of £4,010 made  on 3 March  2016. 
No lump sum payment of £15,000 was ever made to the account. And the £13,675.71  paid 
in November 2014 was money  Mr P had withheld because, according to him, Barclays 
automated system wouldnt accept  the payments hed tried to make each month.
I have found no evidence in the contact notes or the correspondence to support Mr Ps 
contention that he was told not to make payment until someone from Barclays contacted  him 
to negotiate new terms. I note there were numerous telephone conversations  over a long 
period between Barclays and Mr P where,  not only does  he not mention at any point this 
alleged arrangement, he also makes promises of payment  (and which payments  were not 
made). It is simply not credible that Barclays solicitors would have  told Mr P not to make any 
payment and it is at odds  with all the evidence on file.
In the circumstances, if I am to accept what Mr P has said, I would have thought that, if Mr P 
was waiting for someone from Barclays to contact him to put in place a payment 
arrangement, he might  have mentioned this at least once over the telephone, given that 
Mr P says it was such a crucial matter.  He could also have made his monthly payments plus 
the amount he believed  would be sufficient to clear  the arrears  over the remainder of the 
term if, in fact, he genuinely believed such an arrangement had been agreed  he didnt 
need Barclays permission to pay the mortgage.
Furthermore, there is no evidence of a lump sum payment of £15,000 made  by Mr P to the 
mortgage account at any time.
In the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN44533873If Mr P is experiencing financial difficulty,  he may want  to contact one of the free debt advice 
agencies, such as StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide  him with details 
of those agencies  if hed like us to.
I think I would be remiss if I did not emphasise  to Mr P the seriousness  of the position he is 
in with this mortgage. Mr P says he has kept aside  a lump sum to pay off the arrears. But the 
contract Mr P entered into with Barclays is that he would make  his mortgage payments  each  
month, in full and on time. The court has varied  that arrangement by ordering the terms on 
which possession is to be suspended. If Mr P doesnt keep to the terms ordered by the court, 
he is at risk of losing his home.
By failing to pay the mortgage each month,  even if he has put aside the missed repayments, 
Mr P is only increasing his debt. Interest  accrues  on unpaid arrears,  and so his account  
balance will be higher  than if hed paid what he owed each month.
Because there is a suspended possession order, its up to the court to determine whether 
any further suspension of possession should be granted and if so, on what terms. I dont 
have any power to interfere with a court order. So the extent to which  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service might be to assist Mr P in the future is very limited and does not extend 
to us being able to interfere in any action by Barclays to take possession of the property; that 
is an issue which would need  to be dealt with by the court.  
Lenders generally will agree put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but 
they dont have to and we cant force them  to; if the Financial Ombudsman Service  had that 
power it would  undermine our impartiality between the parties to a complaint.  It would  also 
create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring complaints with the intention 
of obstructing  businesses  that were trying  to take legitimate action to recover  money  owed to 
them. I would not want Mr P to be under any misunderstanding that we would tell Barclays to 
suspend any further recovery action in the event of a new complaint being  raised.  
No payment has been made to the mortgage  account for more than three and a half years. I 
would urge Mr P to pay the lump sum he has kept aside to Barclays as soon as possible, 
begin paying the monthly instalments and to contact  the bank to put in place a payment 
arrangement for clearing  the remainder  of the arrears. 
Before Barclays can consider any payment proposals, Mr P will need  to provide the bank 
with full details  of his income, outgoings, assets  and liabilities, supported by evidence,  so 
that Barclays can give fair consideration to any payment  proposals  and ensure they are 
affordable and realistic.  As I said above, Mr P might find it helpful  to use a debt advice 
agency to assist him with this.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4453387