K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns the sale of mortgage cover in 2012  by The Co-operative  
Bank Plc. They feel the cover was mis-sold and an expensive replacement  for their existing 
cover.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, a copy of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In it I explained  that I didnt  think  the complaint should be upheld. This was because,  in 
short, I felt a consideration of the evidence and wider circumstances supported  a finding, on 
balance, that the replacement  policy provided cover Mr and Mrs L wanted and was generally  
suitable for them. 
I also thought  The Co-ops offer of £250  to acknowledge that the life cover element of the 
policy couldve been covered by their existing pension provision and a delay in handling the 
complaint, was fair.
The Co-op accepted my decision. Mr and Mrs L didnt, saying, in brief:  
My provisional decision appeared to be focussed on the cost and didnt take into 
account the initial complaint that the advisor failed to question or discuss  their 
personal circumstances to decide on the appropriate policy,  e.g. death in service, 
long-term absence  pay, which wouldve covered the mortgage  payment for a year. 
The incorrect policy was presented to them in a manner that made them  believe it to 
be the correct and only option  available  for them to be accepted for the remortgage. 
The banks tactics  of switching the focus  to the cost of the policy away  from the fact it 
was the wrong  policy has been successful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
I remain of the view that the complaint  should  not be upheld and for the same reasons I gave 
in my provisional decision.  
I note Mr and Mrs Ls concerns that my provisional decision appeared to focus  on the cost of 
the policy. And while I did highlight the very significant increase in cost of the recommended 
policy compared with the existing policy, I did comment first on the suitability of the 
recommendation and why I felt it was reasonable to conclude, on balance,  that they wanted 
and needed the extended cover provided by the new policy.  
In respect of other types of cover they may have already  had in place, such  as the employee 
benefits they mentioned, these are rarely seen as suitable alternatives  for dedicated 
mortgage cover because theyre  not guaranteed to be active for the whole term of the 
mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN47320492If Mr and Mrs L wish to accept The Co-operative Bank Plcs offer of £250 they should 
contact the Co-op  directly  to arrange  payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47320493COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns the sale of mortgage cover in 2012 by The Co-operative Bank Plc. 
They feel the cover was mis-sold and an expensive  replacement for their existing cover.
background
Mr and Mrs L had held a mortgage since 1997, the balance of which had reduced to around £48,000  
by 2012. They remortgaged  for £66,000, but with the same term as the original mortgage, taking it 
through to 2022.
Mr and Mrs L had a decreasing term assurance policy providing life cover only for the 1997 mortgage, 
the level of which broadly  matched the mortgage balance. In light of the new increased borrowing, 
their protection requirements  were reviewed, and a new policy recommended. It provided life, critical 
illness and total permanent disability (TBD) cover (with  waiver of premium  benefit) for the £66,000 
over the correct term. The new monthly premium totalled £165.32. Mr and Mrs L been paying £23.96 
monthly for the previous policy. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs L complained to Co-op  that the policy had been mis-sold.  They said theyd been 
incorrectly told it was compulsory,  had enough cover  already  provided by their employers and hadnt 
been issued with a suitability letter explaining the recommendation. 
Co-op didnt uphold  the complaint. It felt the new policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs L and met their 
revised needs, which Co-op was satisfied had included  the additional types  of insurance  cover. 
The complaint was referred to this service. Several views were issued recommending that the 
complaint be upheld. The most recent of these concluded that if Mr and Mrs L had been better 
informed, they would most  likely not have  opted for the critical illness and TBD cover, instead 
choosing life cover only, as theyd done in 1997. So, they should be refunded  the costs of the 
additional cover, with interest. 
Co-op didnt accept this. But it did offer Mr and Mrs L a refund  of the cost of life cover provided  by the 
policy as it noted at the time of the advice their pensions  had provided  guaranteed  death benefit. This 
refund, including interest, came to around £25, which Co-op offered to round  up to payment of £250 
to also reflect the time taken to fully respond to the complaint.  
As Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the offer, the matters been referred  to me to review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I should  first acknowledge the amount of time its taken for Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  to reach this 
stage. This has been an unfortunate consequence  of staff changes  at this service  and 
misunderstandings about what  has been proposed for resolution of the complaint at different  times. 
And this delay will undoubtably compound the sense of disappointment that Mr and Mrs L will feel 
upon receipt of this provisional decision in which Ill explain why, contrary  to whats been said up to 
now, I dont currently think the complaint should be upheld. So, subject to any further comments  I 
receive, I dont intend to direct Co-op  to take any action. Mr and Mrs L will course still be free to 
accept Co-ops  recent of £250 should they wish to do so. 
Much of the early consideration of the complaint focused upon whether a recommendation shouldve  
been made to retain the existing  life cover and supplement  it with a new second policy making up the 
Ref: DRN47320494balance of cover. So, Mr and Mrs L wouldve had an opportunity to consider whether  that wouldve 
been a cheaper option, as opposed to starting afresh with the new policy.
But the various calculations Co-op has done over the course of the complaints investigation have 
demonstrated that there was unlikely  to have been a significant difference in the cost of how life cover 
was provided. And, in any event, I dont think that the life cover issue was really at the heart of the 
complaint. The primary reason that the replacement policy was so much  more expensive was 
because it provided far more  comprehensive  cover.  The cost of critical illness cover in particular is 
considerably more than the cost of life cover.
Mr and Mrs L have indicated that they were incorrectly  told the cover  was mandatory. Ive noted their 
recollections but think that, on balance, they ought to have been aware  that wasnt the case. The new 
policy differed  greatly from what theyd had before and they declined  the full recommendation made  to 
them, which included  income protection cover, indicating that they were aware there was flexibility in 
what was being proposed.  Further, the mortgage offer document explained  that there  was no 
compulsory insurance (other than buildings  insurance) and the mortgage  was in place  prior to the 
start of the new policy.  
Turning to the suitability of the recommendation, I think  its entire plausible  that Mr and Mrs L might 
have wanted to extend  their cover in relation to the new borrowing. Although they opted for only life 
cover in 1997, theres no reason why they wouldnt have decided that more comprehensive cover was 
needed in 2012. The premiums for the new policy  were weighted, and an exclusion applied, because  
of health issues that had arisen since 1997. This is an example of the type of influencing factor that 
wouldve given Mr and Mrs L an awareness  of the importance  of having cover that extended beyond 
just life cover.  
In respect of the price  issue,  the new policy was clearly much  more expensive that the existing policy. 
But Mr and Mrs L would clearly have known this, and to my mind it supports the view that they would,  
or should, have aware of what cover the new policy provided.  
While the level of life cover was increasing,  from £48,000 to £66,000,  I dont think it could be 
reasonably concluded that the increase in policy  premiums from £23.96 to £165.32 was a result  of 
solely this change. I think more likely than not Mr and Mrs L were aware  they were being 
recommended the additional types of cover  critical  illness, TDB and waiver of premium.  The 
paperwork provided  to them by the policy provider  (if not also by Co-op) made this clear. But if there 
was any uncertainty,  the price differential would, or should, have  prompted them  to question  the 
recommendation.
In short, I think a consideration of the evidence and wider circumstances supports a finding  that, on 
balance, this replacement policy provided cover Mr and Mrs L wanted and that was generally suitable 
for them.
I accept theres a slight question mark  over how the life cover was provided, given  the existing policy. 
But, as noted, I think any loss in this respect would  be minimal in light of the much higher cost of the 
new types of cover that were taken. And Im not persuaded that even if a comprehensive  comparison 
of alternatives had been  carried out and communicated  to Mr and Mrs L, they wouldnt have simply  
opted to accept  the new policy  in any event, perhaps to avoid the complications of multiple policies. 
In any event, I think Co-ops recent offer to refund the cost of the life cover in light of the existing 
pension provision  addresses  this, particularly  as the overall offer is £250.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further comments I receive, Im currently of the view that the 
complaint shouldnt  be upheld. 
Ref: DRN4732049