K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank Plc wont provide a refund by processing a 
chargeback or under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr W and Mrs W bought a timeshare membership  in 2005. They  were  induced to enter the 
membership agreement with a third party (that Ill call C) by high pressure sales  tactics. But 
the membership benefits promised  never materialised and Mr W and Mrs W feel the 
agreement was mis-sold. They want Barclays to provide a refund as they made  some  of the 
payments using their Barclays current account.  
Barclays checked bank  statements  and found relevant payments consisting of two debit card 
payments totalling  over £3,000 made in August 2005 and a bank transfer of over £13,000 in 
October 2005. But Barclays doesnt  think section  75 applies to these  as it only relates to 
purchases paid for with credit.  Barclays  accepts payments made  by debit card can 
sometimes be refunded  using a process  known as chargeback.  But it says this doesnt apply 
to the money  paid by bank transfer.  And the chargeback scheme  rules  that Barclays  must 
follow say the maximum  timeframe to dispute  a transaction  is 540 days. So it was too late to 
process a chargeback for debit card payments made in 2005 by the time Mr W and Mrs W 
raised the issue with Barclays earlier this year. 
Our investigator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Hes satisfied section 
75 only applies to goods or services  bought  on credit - such  as credit  cards and loans. And 
Mr and Mrs Ws payments  here arent covered  because it doesn't  apply to payments  made  
by debit card or bank  transfer. He says the debit card payments come under  the chargeback 
process - but this is voluntary scheme  and Barclays is bound by the relevant scheme rules. 
He explained  we can only look at whether Barclays applied those rules  properly - and if it 
was responsible for a claim being unsuccessful.  He thinks Barclays has applied  the rules  
correctly and it would be unfair to require Barclays to provide a refund.
Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy with this outcome.  They say (in summary) the fact they were  
patient and tried to resolve things with C first has gone against  them,  which is unfair.  Theyre  
been the victims  of a scam. And this service  has used  the same  arguments as Barclays did - 
when we should find against  the financial business,  not agree with it. They  asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.   
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr W and Mrs W 
but Ive reached  much  the same  conclusions as our investigator for substantially  the same  
reasons. 
I should make it clear at the outset that Im not a regulator. Its not my role to punish a 
financial business or order it to change its processes. This service investigates  complaints 
made against financial businesses impartially and informally. We look into what's happened 
and, if the financial  business has done  something wrong, well require it to put things right.  
This complaint is about how Barclays handled  Mr W and Mrs Ws request for a refund under  
section 75 or via chargeback. I understand Mr W and Mrs W are really  unhappy  with the 
Ref: DRN48358752timeshare they bought  from C. They  feel it was mis-sold and theyve been scammed. I have 
a great  deal of sympathy for the situation they find themselves in. But, for the same  reasons 
as our investigator, I am satisfied that section 75 doesnt apply  to any of the three payments 
Mr W and Mrs W made to C here. 
I accept the debit card payments (but not the bank transfer)  are subject to the chargeback  
process. Whether a chargeback succeeds  or not is however decided under the card scheme 
rules. This means Im looking at whether Barclays has acted  within the rules of the relevant 
chargeback scheme  - not at the merits of Mr W and Mrs Ws claim against C. 
I have considered the relevant rules.  I am satisfied  a chargeback must be brought within  120 
calendar days of either the date of the transaction or the date the services or merchandise 
were received - subject  to a maximum time limit of 540 calendar days from the date of the 
transaction.
The debit card transactions Mr W and Mrs W made  here took place in 2005. And Mr W and 
Mrs W asked  Barclays for a refund  in 2018. I understand the reasons for this delay but Im 
afraid it means the chargeback  request  was made  outside of the timeframes  allowed under 
the relevant scheme. And I cant fairly  find it was unreasonable of Barclays  to decline the 
chargeback, in this situation. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays  has done 
anything wrong. Im satisfied Barclays has met its obligations under the chargeback  scheme 
and I cant fairly require Barclays to do anything further. I appreciate this is not the outcome  
Mr W and Mrs W hoped for and Im sorry if they feel let down. Mr W and Mrs W are not 
obliged to accept  my decision - and, if they do not, they remain free to pursue this matter by 
other means.  
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4835875