K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited mis-led them in 2000 
when it advised  them to take out a Flexible  Mortgage ISA (FMISA). They complain they were  
led to believe it could  be used for different mortgages in the future but in 2013 and again in 
2018, they were  informed  they could only use part of the ISA or none of it at all. 
background
At the time of the advice, as per the fact find completed and signed  by Mr and Mrs R, they 
had an existing interest only mortgage. They had an endowment  policy to repay that 
mortgage but had cancelled (surrendered)  it. So they needed a new repayment  vehicle. 
Legal and General recommended the FMISA as it provided the flexibility and tax efficiency 
they were looking  for. 
In 2013, Mr and Mrs R re-mortgaged. But they were only allowed to have just over £11,000 
of the mortgage  on an interest only basis whereas the ISA was set up with a sum assured  of 
£29,500. In 2018, they re-mortgaged again with another  lender. This lender only offered 
repayment mortgages and so they were unable to use the FMISA towards the repayment  of 
it. They complained  to Legal and General  as they say the ISA didnt allow them  to do what  
was originally intended  be portable for use with other mortgages.
Legal and General didnt  uphold their complaint. It was satisfied the product recommended  
was portable and Mr and Mrs R had benefitted  from that. It also added  that it couldnt be 
held responsible for the commercial decisions of lenders years  later.  Our investigator  
reached the same overall conclusion.
Mr and Mrs R have asked for the matter  to be reviewed. They have said they believe the 
FMISA was falsely advertised and they were given incorrect advice as they were  told the 
product can be used as the capital repayment  part of a mortgage. They  are now paying both 
a repayment mortgage and premiums  to the FMISA to get the full benefits,  as it isnt 
accepted by most mortgage lenders. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, there is very little I can 
add to the investigators findings.
The FMISA was a product  designed to have the flexibility and life cover that is found in an 
endowment policy and the tax efficiency of an ISA. It is a standalone investment vehicle 
used to build  up a capital lump sum designed to pay off all, or part of a mortgage.  It isnt tied 
to a particular  mortgage product which means it can be used in support  of several 
mortgages over the term of the ISA. 
So Mr and Mrs Rs original understanding of the product and the information given in the 
brochure is correct.  But what  has changed is the mortgage market itself.  Mr and Mrs R are 
likely fully aware of the 2008 crash. As a result of that crash a lot of changes were made to the 
mortgage market  and the risk lenders were willing to take with the repayment  of mortgages 
reduced substantially.  That meant  some  lenders  decided against offering interest only 
mortgage entirely and that others  were  stricter on what could be used as a repayment vehicle.
Ref: DRN41182112I think it fair to say that it wouldnt have been  reasonably foreseeable to any financial advisor 
in 2000 that a crash of the type and magnitude of that in 2008 was likely  and therefore 
something that should be accounted for. And even if it was, it couldnt have been reasonably 
foreseen how the market or prospective  lenders would react to that.  
Mr and Mrs R have argued  that most mortgage  lenders will now not accept  their FMISA as a 
repayment vehicle.  But that isnt borne out by the evidence. They were able to use the FMISA 
in 2013 albeit only partially. And they have only provided evidence of one lender who wont  
accept it now  but thats not because it wont accept the ISA but because it doesnt offer 
interest only mortgages. A quick search of the internet shows that a number of high street  
lenders offer interest  only mortgages. It was Mr and Mrs Rs choice to re-mortgage to a lender 
that doesnt offer interest only mortgages. They might have very good reasons for doing  that, 
such as a competitive  rate of interest. But Im not persuaded its fair to hold Legal  and General 
responsible for a decision they freely made 18 years after the sale of the FMISA. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Legal and General mis-led Mr and Mrs R or that the FMISA was 
otherwise unsuitable for them. For that reason I make no award against it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4118211