K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that after hed received unsatisfactory goods and services  purchased  
through a fixed  sum loan financed by Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (BPF)  it had 
mishandled his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. Mr J also says that 
BPF has unfairly recorded adverse  information on his credit file. 
background 
In June 2018 Mr J decided to have new back doors installed at his home. He entered into a 
two year fixed sum loan agreement to finance  the doors and their installation with a supplier 
- S. Under the terms of the loan payments were due monthly following the supply of the 
goods. 
Mr J says that both he and his wife were assured by S that no payments would need to be 
made under the agreement until they were completely satisfied with the doors  and their 
installation.
In July 2018 the new doors were supplied  and fitted  by S at Mr Js home and the loan 
agreement was activated with the first payment falling due in August 2018.  
Mr J was very unhappy at the way the doors  had been installed and said damage  had been 
caused to his property as a result. He complained to S who arranged  subsequent visits to 
carry out repairs to remedy the situation. Mr J remained unhappy and complained that the 
subsequent repairs  were also of a poor standard. 
In August  2018  Mr J raised a complaint with BPF under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (s75) and he also cancelled his direct debit payments due to be made under the 
loan agreement. 
While BPF was looking at Mr Js claim he informed it that the remedial  work  had now been 
carried out and that it had also been  agreed with S that it would pay him the cost of 
employing a third party contractor to rectify  the final outstanding damage  to his home. 
BPF wrote to Mr J informing him that it in light of Ss actions  it was now closing  his claim. It 
said that it would also honour his claim  and pay Mr J £100  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience that had been caused  to him.
There had been  arrears accruing on Mr Js account  as, having cancelled  his direct debit he 
had missed payments  under the loan agreement while his complaint had been  ongoing.  BPF 
issued a default notice in October 2018  and when the following payment was missed it 
recorded the default notice on Mr Js credit  file.
Following the resolution of Mr Js complaint about the doors in November 2018 BPF said 
that, as a gesture of goodwill, it would remove  the arrears on his account and write them 
back into the agreement  meaning these would  need  to be cleared at the end of the 
agreement. It didnt remove the information about  the default notice from Mr Js credit file.
Mr J complained to this service about  BPFs failure  to amend his credit  file. He said that he 
had been told, when  he took out the loan agreement, he wouldnt need to make  payments 
until he was 100% satisfied with the supply and installation of the doors.  He said this had 
also been repeated to his wife after she complained about the installation  but the payments 
had still been  requested.
Ref: DRN40891252Mr J said hed repeatedly  asked for the payments to be suspended  while  his complaint  was 
ongoing with both S and BPF.  But BPF said that it was for the retailer,  and not it as the credit 
provider, to suspend  the payments under the agreement. Mr J said although he had asked S 
hadnt suspended the payments  under  the agreement.
Mr J said that BPF had tried to mislead  him as to its responsibilities under s75 by saying it 
was only obliged to assist him with his complaint.
Mr J said that by moving the missed payments until the end of the loan he had believed BPF 
had re-set the agreement and so the default  notice was unfair and should be removed from 
his credit file. He also complained that he was receiving arrears letters every six months 
which he said should be stopped.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think BPF had acted unfairly in recording the default notice on Mr Js credit  file. It was 
under an obligation to record  accurate information  as to how an account  had been managed  
and Mr J had missed  four payments under the agreement.
Our investigator said as the doors had been purchased  via a fixed loan agreement then this 
was protected  by the Consumer Credit  Act. The Act says that in certain  circumstances the 
borrower (Mr J) has a right to claim against the credit provider (BPF) if there  had been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation  by the supplier (S).  
Our investigator said she didnt know what had been  said about when payments would fall 
due at the time the doors  had been ordered and the loan agreement completed. Nor was 
there any record of a call between Mr Js wife and S on the day of the installation. But 
looking at both the pre-contract information  and the agreement it was clear that the loan 
would be activated  when the goods  were supplied and that payments would then fall due 
one month  later. Our investigator said she didnt think Mr J had been  misled as to when the 
payments would fall due.
Our investigator said it wasnt unusual for agreements to be activated  by supply rather  than 
installation. That was because  Mr J would have  had the protection  of s75 should anything  go 
wrong and he had benefitted from that as BPF had mediated with S and arranged a 
settlement of his claim.
Our investigator said she didnt agree that BPF had misled  Mr J about its responsibilities 
under s75. It had been able to mediate  and the matter had been resolved  by S making a 
lump sum payment to Mr J for repair  work to his home.
Our investigator said BPF wasnt under any obligation to freeze the account during the 
complaint and so she couldnt say it had done  anything wrong by not doing so. Mr J had the 
doors and so had a liability to make the payments.  
Our investigator said that BPF had warned  Mr J about the impact  of not paying the monthly 
instalments when it spoke  with him in October  2018 but at that time he had still declined  to 
pay. And while our investigator said she understood why Mr J had withheld the payments 
she didnt think BPF had acted unreasonably in issuing the default notice and registering it 
on Mr Js credit file when  a further payment was missed.
Ref: DRN40891253Our investigator said it was reasonable to think Mr J was aware of the potential outcome of 
missing payments as these were outlined in the letters sent to him by BPF as well as being 
reinforced in the October  phone call.
Our investigator said that the writing  back of the arrears into Mr Js account had been an 
informal arrangement  by BPF and the agreement  hadnt changed. These  arrears  would need 
to be cleared at the end of the agreement. This also meant that although BPF wouldnt 
chase Mr J for the arrears  they would still show and under the Consumer Credit Act there 
was a requirement that BPF send an arrears  letter every six months to Mr J. If these letters 
werent sent then the agreement could become non-enforceable.
Our investigator also said that BPF hadnt  been under any obligation to place the arrears  
back into the loan and instead could  have chosen to chase them.  
Our investigator said there did appear  to have been some confusion  caused about what was 
happening to the arrears.  BPF had discussed during calls with Mr J about  removing  the 
arrears and also about placing them back into the balance owing. However,  BPF had offered  
Mr J £100 compensation  for the service  hed received and she thought that was fair to 
address the confusion that had been caused.
Mr J disagreed with the view of our adjudicator.  He said hed never  received the loan 
paperwork as it had been sent to the wrong email address so was unaware  of the terms and 
conditions. He said hed been told by S he wouldnt need to make payments until he was 
satisfied.
Mr J said that he had rejected the goods  and had put this in writing. It was only later that a 
satisfactory remedy was found by S paying  a lump sum for a third party to do the remedial  
works which meant in fact that he kept the goods. But he said as he had rejected  the goods  
there was no liability  to pay the loan.
Mr J said that had he been advised by BPF that the payments being added  back  into the 
agreement were an informal arrangement then he wouldnt have accepted  the lump sum 
payment from S. He said he believed the sorting  out of the arrears  had been part of the 
resolution of his complaint about  the poor installation of the doors.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the fixed sum loan agreement  and the pre-contract information. Looking  
at both of these documents I think it does set out clearly that the loan is activated when the 
goods are supplied. There is no requirement  for a certificate of satisfaction to be supplied for 
the funds to be paid to the supplier. So, once the doors were  delivered to Mr Js home then 
payments would become due the following month.  Mr J says he hasnt seen these 
documents but he agreed to take the loan and be bound by its terms and conditions. I think  it 
would be reasonable to expect if the paperwork wasnt received for Mr J to have chased that 
up and made sure he had a copy.
Ref: DRN40891254I appreciate Mr J says he was told by the salesman when he took out the loan agreement 
that payments  could  be withheld  if he was unhappy but I dont know  what was said exactly  at 
the time.  I also dont  know what was said to Mr Js wife during a phone call on the day the 
doors had been  installed  as no record of that call can be found. I dont have enough  
evidence to be able to reasonably say that Mr J was promised terms for payment that dont 
appear in the agreement. Im satisfied  on the evidence I have seen that Mr J wasnt  misled 
about when he would  become liable for the payments.
Mr J says that he rejected  the goods  and by doing so he had no liability to pay the loan. Im 
afraid I dont agree with Mr J on this point. Mr J raised a complaint about the doors and their 
installation with S as the supplier and also with BPF under s75. Its correct that BPF are 
jointly and severally  liable  for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation made by the 
supplier. But I dont agree with Mr J that BPF tried to mislead him about its responsibilities 
under s75.
Ive seen that BPF told Mr J that its obligation under the section was for any faults  found  with 
goods purchased  by the finance agreement to be either repaired or replaced  at no extra  cost 
to the consumer, and that it would normally liaise with the retailer  ensuring they had an 
opportunity to investigate  and rectify  any concerns. I think  this is a fair summary  of what this 
service would expect  to happen  when  a complaint under s75 was received by a business.
Ive seen there was liaison between Mr J and S and also between S and BPF as to how to 
resolve Mr Js complaint about  the poor installation of the doors  and the damage caused to 
his property. Ive also seen that Mr J never returned  the doors and they were  always  at this 
property and that he accepted remedial work  to fix the issues.  This wasnt a simple  matter of 
returning faulty goods so it would be fair and reasonable for BPF first to try to remedy  any 
breach of contract by allowing the supplier  to put things right rather  than by cancelling  the 
contract. And Ive also seen that this was ultimately  successful.
As Mr J never returned the goods then I think its reasonable to say that his liability to pay for 
them under the agreement  wasnt altered. Ive seen that he asked both BPF and S to 
suspend payments while his complaint was investigated. But BPF wasnt obliged to take this 
action and nor was S so I cant say BPF acted in error by requiring the payments to be made  
on the dates they were  due.
BPF wrote to Mr J about the missing payments and before the default notice was issued it 
asked him to make a payment  advising  him that there could otherwise be an impact on his 
credit file. I cant  reasonably say Mr J wasnt aware what might happen if he didnt pay. I 
think its reasonable to say he chose not to do so. And as the default  notice went  unpaid I 
cant say BPF acted unfairly  in recording that on Mr Js credit file. BPF was under an 
obligation to accurately record information about  how Mr J managed the account.
Ive seen there was some  confusion as to what would happen about the arrears once Mr Js 
complaint was settled.  There wasnt any suggestion  that they wouldnt be payable and Mr J 
hasnt said that either.  BPF could have continued  to chase the arrears but instead, as a 
gesture of goodwill, agreed  to remove them and add them  back  into the agreement. Mr J 
says he wasnt aware  that this was an informal arrangement but Ive seen the terms of the 
agreement werent  altered  so these four missing payments  would remain as arrears. 
Although that means Mr J will receive the six monthly arrears letters  that doesnt mean BPF 
will chase their payment so it wont alter how they will be collected at the end of the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN40891255I appreciate that the handling of Mr Js complaint didnt run as smoothly  as it might have 
done and that there  was confusion over the status of the arrears.  BPF offered Mr J £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this caused him and I think  thats  fair so I 
wont be asking it to do more.
As set out above I think Mr J remained liable for the payments under the loan during his 
complaint and that BPF didnt  act incorrectly in issuing the default notice and subsequently 
recording it on Mr Js credit file. Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089125