K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP)  Mr B bought alongside a 
mortgage in 2002. TMPP can be split into sections   Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is 
a form of mortgage payment protection insurance), Life Cover,  and Critical  Illness  Cover 
(CIC).
Mr B has only complained about  the mortgage  payment protection  insurance cover  (MPPI), 
so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI  element of the package is this decision.  The 
MPPI covered Mr B for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Because the MPPI was sold so long ago, theres  very little evidence available  from the 
time of the sale. I dont  think  thats  surprising, but it means  I have to decide  what I think  
is more likely to have  happened, given  the information  I do have. 
Ive seen Halifaxs internal records which show that the MPPI was discussed  with Mr B 
when he took out his mortgage, specifically to check that he was eligible for the policy. 
And from what I know of how Halifax generally  sold MPPI at the time, I think  its likely it 
would have made the optional nature of the MPPI clear during that conversation.  So 
with what Ive seen  I think its more likely Halifax made it clear  that Mr B had a choice  
about taking the MPPI  and he chose to take it out, knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr B, so it had to check  that it was right for him  and 
based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think its more likely  he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive though carefully about everything that Mr B has said,  including  what hes told us about 
his sick pay and savings.  But the PPI could  have paid out for up to 24 months if he had been  
too ill to work or had lost his job, so significantly longer than hes said his sick pay or 
redundancy pay would have lasted.  And it would have meant  any savings he had were 
available for other essential expenditure. Mr B has also said his partner could have helped to 
cover the mortgage  if needed, but that would depend on their own circumstances at the time, 
so I dont think their help could be guaranteed.  So considering that the mortgage  was a 
Ref: DRN48071702significant financial commitment secured against Mr Bs home, I think the MPPI could have 
provided him with a useful benefit,  and his points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4807170