K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Virgin Money  plc is charging interest despite him paying off the full 
purchase balance  each month. 
background
Mr M had a credit card with Virgin  Money. He opened the account in September  2018. And 
his first months purchases totalled  £6290.19. Mr M settled this amount in full before the due 
date. On 23 October he transferred £8000 at a 0% promotional rate.
Mr M made further purchases during October totalling £3949.05 which he paid in full. In 
November Mr M made purchase  totalling  £5757.19 and paid the full amount. But interest of 
£37.06 was charged. The same thing  happened  in December despite Mr M paying the 
months purchases in full. So Mr M would like Virgin Money to refund the interest its 
charged. And he wants it to repay the balance transfer charge of £240 and compensate  him 
for 3 hours of work valued at £750  which he had to spend talking to Virgin  Money.
Virgin Money said the statement explained  Virgin Money wouldnt charge interest  on card 
purchases if the full balance  on the statement was paid by the payment  date. As Mr M hadnt 
paid the full balance hed incurred interest charges of £37.06 in November. Virgin Money 
apologised for the length  of time Mr M had spent on the phone  querying the interest charge. 
And it credited his account with £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Virgin  Moneys  response. So he contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She explained that interest  was charged if the full balance  
on the account wasnt cleared. The terms and conditions said that Virgin Money  would not 
charge interest  on card purchases as long as the customer paid the full balance shown on 
the statement  by the payment date. Otherwise  it would charge  interest  each day on all 
transactions and related fees.
Because Mr M had made a balance transfer which remained  on his account  hed been 
charged interest on his purchases in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  So 
she couldnt say Virgin Money had done  anything wrong.
Mr M didnt  agree. If he paid back the part of the balance with the higher interest (his 
spending) there shouldnt  be any interest  on the remaining balance (his 0% transfer).  So 
hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M believes Virgin Money  has made  a mistake. He was paying off the full amount of his 
expenditure each  month. And the remaining balance was part of his £8000  transfer  at a 0% 
promotional rate. So Ive looked at Mr Ms statements to see if the business has done  
anything wrong. And if so what  it needs to do to put things right.  
Mr Ms expenditure during September 2018, including the annual  fee, totalled £6290.19. And 
a minimum payment was due by 17 October. Mr M paid £6290.19 on 2 October. During  the 
next statement  month he spent £3949.05 and transferred £8000.00 to the account. 
Ref: DRN43103032The transfer incurred  a fee of £240.00.  So Mr Ms total expenditure on his card for the 
October statement  was £12189.05. Mr M paid a total of £4689.09  towards  his balance. But 
Virgin Money applied  £37.06 interest.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. And Ive check  what  information  
Virgin Money provides  on the monthly  statement. As Mr M points out payments are first 
allocated against  the parts of his balance which have  the higher interest rate. So as hed 
always paid enough  each month  to cover what hed spent the only thing left was the 
transferred balance at the 0% rate.
But the key facts also explain you will not pay interest on card purchases if you pay your 
balance in full and on time.  The statement also says if you do not pay off the full amount 
outstanding, we will allocate your payment to the outstanding balance  in a specific order  
which is set out in the Key facts  about your card section. The way in which  payments are 
allocated can make a significant difference to the amount of interest you will pay until the 
balance is cleared completely.
Ive looked at the monthly statement and it does make it clear in a number of places that 
interest is charged on all transactions and related fees unless the balance  on the statement 
is paid in full. When Mr M was using his card for purchases and paying off the full balance at 
the end of the month he was charged  no interest.  And if Mr M had merely used his card for a 
balance transfer  at the 0% rate he wouldve been charged no interest.
But Mr M used  his card for both purchases and a balance  transfer  and I think thats  caused  
some confusion. The transferred balance will continue at the 0% rate for the promotional  
period. Hes not being charged interest on the £8000 he moved from another card.
But while that transfer balance remains on his account it means  he will pay interest on any 
purchases from the date they are made until the date they are paid. This is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account  and the key facts on his monthly statement. Mr Ms 
monthly payment  is allocated against  the purchase  balance on his account. But to avoid 
paying interest on those  purchases he would have to pay the full statement balance. Not the 
purchase balance.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. He says he wouldnt have taken  up the 
balance transfer  if hed know it would mean he was charged interest. But my role is to see if 
Virgin Money has done anything wrong. And based on what Ive seen I cant  say it has.
Mr M isnt being charged interest on his balance transfer. He is only being charged interest 
on his purchases while  a balance remains on his statement. Based on what Ive seen Virgin 
Money has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I can see its credited 
Mr M with £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the time hes spent  questioning  the matter.  And I 
think thats a fair response.  But I wont be asking  the business  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 Novemb er 2019.
Ref: DRN43103033Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4310303