K821x#15complaint
Ms W, represented  by her solicitor,  complains that Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny)  didnt carry out sufficient  checks to ensure the loans it provided to her 
were affordable.
background
Ms W entered into six loans with Sunny between December 2015 and June 2016. The loans 
were instalment loans  repayable over 14 months.  The loan amounts varied from £200 to 
£1,800.
Ms W says that at the time of the loans she was in financial difficulty  and that her situation 
deteriorated as a result of the loans being provided.  She says that she entered a cycle  of 
borrowing taking our new loans to repay  existing  debt.  Ms W says that had adequate checks 
been carried out the loans  wouldnt have been  provided.
Sunny says that before providing the loans it carried out eligibility, creditworthiness  and 
affordability checks. It says it applies an affordability check based on the income and 
expenditure information provided by the customer and information from the credit reference  
agencies. 
Sunny says that Ms W was provided with instalment loans and that the repayments were  
deemed affordable  and sustainable based on the information she provided and the 
information from her credit file. It says it gathers expenditure information on six categories  
including mortgage/  rent, credit commitments, food, transport and other  regular outgoings 
and that this information is compared  to external data and the higher  of the two values is 
used in the calculation. It says that its records show that it was reasonable to provide the 
loans to Ms W.
Our adjudicator thought that the checks carried out before the first two loans were provided 
were sufficient. When the third loan was requested, the first two loans  were  still outstanding. 
Given Ms W had requested £2,700 in two months  and given the size of her total repayments 
compared to her income, our adjudicator thought that further checks should have been  
carried out to ensure  this loan was affordable. Had this happened he thought  that Sunny 
would have realised  that Ms W was in financial difficulty and that this loan added to this.
Before requesting the fourth loan, Ms W repaid  her first three loans. Based on the required 
repayment amounts  our adjudicator thought that had proportionate checks been carried out 
this loan would have been shown  to be affordable. He said that sunny had agreed that loans 
five and six should not have been  provided.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the interest  and charges be refunded (along with 
interest) on loans three,  five and six and that any adverse information regarding  these loans 
should be removed  from Ms Ws credit file.
Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It challenged  the comment that it had agreed 
loans five and six shouldnt have been  provided and said that before providing loans it 
verified the information provided by Ms W. It challenged the figure used for outstanding short 
term loans at the time of the third loan and said that the checks  it carried out were sufficient. 
Ref: DRN46313212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Ms W, Sunny had to make sure each time that she could afford  to 
repay the loans.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What is proportionate  depends  
on things like  but not limited  to  the size of the loan,  the repayments,  what  Sunny knew 
about Ms W, and the things she told it about  her circumstances.
Ms W entered into six instalment loans with Sunny.
Loan date amount term
1 December 2015 £1,000 14 months
2 February 2016 £1,000 14 months
3 February 2016 £700 14 months
4 April 2016 £700 14 months
5 May 2016 £1,800 14 months
6 June 2016 £200 14 months
Before the loans were  provided to Ms W, Sunny collected information about  her income and 
expenditure and carried  out a credit check.  For the duration of the loans, Ms W declared an 
income of £1,000. Her expenses varied.
Ms Ws first loan was for £1,000 with monthly  repayment amounts of just over £130. At this 
time, Ms Ws monthly expenses were recorded  as £350. Given  this was Ms Ws first loan 
and given the size of her repayments compared to her income, I think the checks  carried out 
before the loan was provided  were  sufficient. As these  suggested  the loan was affordable I 
think it reasonable that Sunny provided  this loan.
Ms W took out a second loan while the first was still outstanding. This meant that her 
combined monthly repayments increased  to around £260. However, as this was still only 
Ms Ws second  loan I think the checks carried out were sufficient. At this time,  Ms W 
declared expenses  of £554  which left a disposable  income of around  £446. Based on this 
the loan repayments did appear  affordable and so I do not find it unreasonable  that this loan 
was provided.
At the time of the third loan Ms W still had the first two loans outstanding. Adding the 
repayment amount  for the third loan of just under  £100 per month to the existing repayments 
under the first two loans gave total monthly repayments of around £360.
As Ms W had taken out three  loans  in around  two months and given the size of the 
combined repayments compared to her income, I think it reasonable that Sunny should  have 
carried out further checks to ensure that that loan was sustainably affordable. In this case  I 
think that it should have checked  to see if Ms W had any other short term lending 
commitments at the time.  
I have looked  through  Ms Ws credit file and can see that she had two payday loans 
outstanding at the time totalling  £1,000  both of which were repaid  shortly after the third loan 
was agreed. Based on this I find it reasonable to accept that Ms W had substantial short  
term loan commitments  at the time of the loan. Her disposable income based on her monthly 
income and expenses at the time and the total loan repayments due was around £150.  
Ref: DRN46313213Therefore I think that had Sunny considered Ms W short term loan commitments alongside 
her other expenses it would have  realised this loan wasnt sustainably affordable.
Ms W repaid the first three  loans in March 2016.  This was before she applied for her fourth  
loan. The fourth loan was for £700 with monthly repayment amounts of around £95. I have 
looked through the information  provided and I cannot see that at this time Ms W had any 
outstanding short term loan commitments. Given the repayment  of the previous loans, the 
size of the repayments compared to Ms Ws income,  and her declared disposable income  I 
think it reasonable that this loan was provided.
Our adjudicator noted that Sunny had accepted  that loans five and six shouldnt  have been 
provided. I have looked  at the relevant document and can see that Sunny said that whilst it 
was happy that it undertook the necessary  checks,  given the size of loan five in proportion to 
Ms Ws income  it thought  she could  been  using this loan in a way that was detrimental to 
her. It said it could have  contacted Ms W at that point to discuss  her current  financial 
situation and whether  the loan remained affordable. Because of this it said it would partially 
uphold Ms Ws complaint in relation to loans  5 and 6.
Ms W took out the fifth loan when her fourth  loan was still outstanding. This meant the total 
repayments due were around  £330. Her expenses were recorded as £462 at the time giving 
her a disposable income of £538. Deducting  the loan repayment left £208  and Ms Ws credit 
file shows that she also had an outstanding short  term loan at the time. Given  the size of the 
repayments compared to Ms Ws income and her other financial commitments I agree with 
Sunny that this loan could have been detrimental  to Ms W therefore I agree that this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
Ms W hadnt repaid  her fourth  or fifth loan when the sixth was taken  out. While the sixth loan 
was for a smaller amount  of £200 her total monthly  repayment amounts including this loan 
were around  £360. Ms W had recorded  expenses of £673 so her disposable income was not 
sufficient to cover the increased repayment amount. Therefore I do not find that this loan 
should have been provided.
Ref: DRN46313214my final decision
My final decision is that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as sunny) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Ms W paid on loans three, five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
remove any negative information  about these loans from Ms Ws credit  file.
It is reasonable that if Ms W still owes the capital she borrowed that the refund due to her 
should be used  to reduce that debt.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit  International Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited must give Ms W a certificate  showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4631321