K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy with the 
way theyve handled her car insurance claim. 
background
Miss H held an insurance policy with Skyfire.  In August 2018 Miss H contacted Skyfire to 
explain shed been involved  in a traffic collision with a foreign driver. She felt the other driver 
was at fault as he had changed lanes and collided with her car. The other driver signed a 
liability form at the scene of the collision.
Skyfire contacted the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) for details of the foreign insurers  UK 
handling agents. 
Miss Hs car was repaired by one of Skyfires approved repairers and returned to her in 
October 2018. However, Miss H was dissatisfied with the repairs. She said her car wasnt  
driving like it did before the accident  and it was pulling to the right.
Miss H took the car back to the approved repairer  who carried  out rectification work. But she 
remained unhappy with the repairs following the further work. She thought the issue  with 
steering had been rectified but the car was snaking on the road. She complained  to Skyfire  
who arranged for an engineer to inspect her car.
An engineer  inspected the car in November 2018. His report says a geometry check  was 
carried out. And the check came back within the manufacturers tolerances. The report said 
the issues with steering  may be due to the car having tyres of different depths.  He didnt 
think any further action  was required in relation to this point. But further  rectification  work 
was needed to fix issues with the paintwork - he recommended waxing and re-polishing.  
However, Miss H didnt want her car to go back to the approved repairer.  Skyfire  asked her 
to obtain an estimate  for the work  from a garage  of her choice.
In late November 2018, Miss H contacted Skyfire and told them the car had broken down 
and wouldnt  start.  Skyfire arranged for the car to be collected and taken to a main dealer for 
repair. The main dealer found that the drive shaft  had come  loose and only two of the drive  
shaft bolts were fitted. They changed  all the bolts and checked the underside for damage. 
They found  no damage to the drive shaft  face or the hub face and checked all the other parts  
fitted. They said they considered the repairs to be of a good standard.
Skyfire arranged for another engineer to inspect the car in December  2018.  The engineers 
report says he couldnt find any reason  why the bolts had come  loose from the hub. And he 
would have expected considerable damage  caused by the flailing driveshaft under the 
vehicle if it had become  detached and there didnt appear to be any such damage.  
In regards to the ongoing  claim, Skyfire  have said they were actively trying to get liability 
accepted by the insurer theyd contacted.  However,  this insurer incorrectly  said they didnt 
insure the other drivers  lorry,  despite  the MIB advising  they did. Skyfire got in touch with the 
MIB, and they again  confirmed  who the other drivers insurer was. In March  2019 this third-
party insurer  confirmed they were the other drivers insurer. The claim was eventually closed 
in August 2019.
Ref: DRN4536903Miss H complained to Skyfire in April 2019 about the length of time it was taking to deal with 
her claim. Skyfire upheld  her complaint and said they could have dealt with her claim more  
efficiently and offered  £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
her. 
Unhappy with their response, Miss H brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator  
looked into her concerns.  He thought £200  was reasonable compensation for the delays in 
pursuing the claim. But he thought  Skyfire  should  pay a further £100 compensation in 
recognition of the difficulties Miss H had faced  when sending  her vehicle to be repaired.
Miss H didnt agree with his opinion and asked for an ombudsman  to review  her complaint. 
She thinks shes due more compensation because of the poor service  shes  received from 
Skyfire. Specifically, shes unhappy that:
She didnt receive a free tank of fuel from the original approved repairer as she was 
promised.
She had to pay for two alignment checks  in October 2018 out of her own pocket 
which showed the tracking had not been adjusted.
She had to miss work because she didnt have  a car.
She only had three emails from Skyfire about her claim against the other driver and 
shes had to repeatedly chase  them for updates.
The first engineer didnt test drive her car and his report said the issues were caused 
by the tyres on the car. But when she took the car to the main  dealer their report said 
the tyres  were fine.
Her paintwork  still hasnt been  rectified. However shes now provided Skyfire  with a 
quote from a third party garage  to carry out the work and Skyfire have agreed to 
meet the cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I partly  uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. I will now explain why.
Miss H has made numerous  points  in support of her complaint.  Were  an informal service 
and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned; it isnt because Ive not considered it. But Ive focussed on and set out what  I 
think are the key issues in her complaint.
additional costs  incurred
Ive asked Miss H to provide any further documentary evidence  to support her claims that:
 She was promised a free tank of fuel but didnt receive it.
 The original  repairer did 140 miles on her car.
 She had to pay for two alignment  checks.
 She had to take time off work because  she didnt  have  a car.
However Miss H hasnt provided  any further evidence. When  things go wrong, we look at the 
impact any error had on a customer and consider  any evidence of financial loss. Without 
knowing what she has paid, its difficult to establish  the level of financial loss. In the absence 
Ref: DRN4536903of any persuasive evidence of her costs, I dont think I can fairly  make an award against 
Skyfire for the losses Miss H has said shes suffered.
poor customer service
Ive considered Skyfires  overall handling of the policy, including  the way they communicated 
with Miss H and Ive considered this in my assessment of compensation. I think  Miss H was 
inconvenienced and understandably frustrated by the length of time it took to settle her 
claim. The situation was exacerbated by the other drivers insurer  not accepting liability but 
Skyfire couldve kept Miss H better updated.  
Skyfire have accepted they could have dealt with her claim better, so Ive considered  if the 
compensation theyve  offered is reasonable. Ive taken into account the delays Miss H 
experienced, the lack of communication from Skyfire  and the customer  service  she received. 
issues with the repair and paintwork
Miss H is unhappy with the quality of the repairs to her car. Skyfire instructed  an 
independent engineer to try and resolve matters in regard to the initial  repairs  on her car 
because she said that the car was pulling to the right and snaking at high speeds. 
However, shes unhappy that the engineer didnt test drive  the car.
The report  the engineer produced says that a geometry check  was performed on Miss Hs 
car. And the report  says the check came back within the manufacturers tolerances. In the 
engineers opinion, the possible reason for the issue is the tyres having  differing depths. 
Miss H disputes this because she subsequently  took the car to a main dealer where the 
tyres were checked and there were  no issues flagged by this check.
Ive reviewed the results  of the main  dealers check.  I can see that the report shows there is 
a difference in the tread depths of the tyres, particularly the near side rear tyre compared to 
the other three  tyres.  So, I think the engineer has taken reasonable steps to try and 
diagnose what was causing the issues Miss H complained about. And I think  Skyfire have 
justified their decision not to take any further  action  in relation to Miss Hs concerns that her 
car was pulling to the right and snaking at high speed.
There was a further issue where Miss Hs driveshaft came loose. A second engineer  carried 
out an inspection  and was unable to determine why this had happened. He said, I can not 
see any reason why the bolts  have come lose from the hub, and would have expected  
considerable damage caused by the flailing driveshaft under the vehicle if it had become 
detached and there  appears to be none  of this.
However, Skyfire paid for the repairs on a goodwill basis, but didnt admit any liability  in the 
matter. Im satisfied this is reasonable, the engineer inspected Miss Hs car and couldnt find 
anything to suggest that the driveshaft came loose because of any issues  with the repair.
The first engineers report confirmed that there  appeared to be polishing  marks to the front 
door top and the rear quarter panel.  And these  would require waxing and re-polishing  to fix 
the issue. Miss H was unhappy for the original repairer to carry out the work. Shes  now got 
a quote for £540 from another garage  to carry out the work and Skyfire have agreed to pay 
her to have  the work done. I think  this is a fair resolution regarding  this aspect of the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN4536903However, Miss H has experienced some inconvenience. The initial repairs didnt rectify all 
the problems with her car. Further work  needs  to be completed on her paintwork  and Miss H 
has spent time returning her vehicle for inspection.
So, taking everything  into account, Im satisfied the further £100 compensation 
recommended by the investigator in addition  to the £200 compensation Skyfire have already 
paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Skyfire Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Pay Miss H another £100 compensation in addition to the £200 theyve already paid 
her for the inconvenience she experienced. 
Pay Miss H £540  to cover the cost of waxing  and polishing  her car. 
This should be paid within  28 days of us telling them that Miss H has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
1 If Skyfire pays  interest and considers  that theyre  required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss H how much theyve  taken  off. They should also give Miss H a certificate showing  this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4536903