K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax  mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out two PPI policies alongside their mortgage in 1996 and 2002.  They  
paid a monthly amount for the policies. The policies provided cover for Mr B only.  Mrs B 
wasnt covered by the policies.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS shouldve  made  it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr and Mrs Bs 
agreement to buy it. Mr and Mrs B say it wasnt made clear  to them  that the PPI was 
optional. They say BoS made  it very difficult to refuse the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs B say they bought the PPI policies in two meetings. Mr and Mrs B, and BoS, 
have provided  some  detail about  what was said in this meeting. But there isnt much  
paperwork about the sale of the PPI policies. Thats understandable  given the time that has 
passed. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B and BoS have said. And Ive also used 
what I know about BoS sales  processes to help me make my decision. Having done this, I 
dont have enough to say that its likely BoS told Mr and Mrs B that they needed to buy the 
PPI policies. Overall I think its more likely that BoS made Mr and Mrs B aware that they had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs B say they were pressured into buying the PPI policies by BoS. And I dont  
doubt their genuine feelings  about what happened  in the meetings. From what  theyve said it 
seems clear  the BoS recommended that they start the policies. But this isnt the same as 
being pressured unreasonably.  And this does mean  I havent  seen  enough to uphold the 
complaint only on what  theyve said.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it shouldve made sure it was right for them.  
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt want it as Mr B had good sick pay benefits from his employer 
and they had a large  amount of savings to rely on. 
Ref: DRN40030502Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment. If Mr and Mrs B 
couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the 
mortgage was secured  on their home,  its not unreasonable to say Mr and Mrs B couldve 
potentially lost their property if they fell into financial difficulties.  
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  payment if Mr B couldnt  work due to 
illness, or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer, or 
unemployment benefits, he might have received if this happened.  It couldve provided a 
payment for up to 12 months for the first policy and 24 months for the second one. 
I can see that Mr B did have some savings.  But if he couldnt work  for a longer period of time 
they couldve incurred  significant costs. And they may not have wanted to use their savings 
to repay  their mortgage in this situation.  So I dont think it was wrong for BoS to recommend 
the PPI policies because of this. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford to make the monthly payments for 
the PPI at the time of sale. And they dont appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
So it seems  to have  been  right for them based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  Ive seen how the cost of the first policy was shown to them  but not the 
second. But as I said earlier, based  on what I know about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances,  it 
looks like the policies  couldve  been  useful to them. So I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped  them buying them. And I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out due to 
anything that BoS mightve done wrong.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4003050