K822xcomplaint
L, representing  Mr W, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc should  write off Mr Ws personal  loan. 
background 
In March 2016 Mr W took out a loan from HSBC for £7,600 (£8,793.92 including interest).  
£214.48 was to be repaid each month for 41 months. 
L wrote to HSBC on the 19 January  2018  to let it know that Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulties. It didnt receive a response. 
It wrote again on the 15 May 2018 asking  HSBC to write off the outstanding balance of Mr Ws 
loan due to his mental health conditions. 
On the 31 May 2018 L spoke to a HSBC advisor who confirmed the bank had received these 
letters and said L needed to complete a form of authority  and a financial statement for Mr W. 
L says it had already  sent a form of authority, and explained it felt the financial statement 
would be inaccurate.
On the 30 July 2018 HSBC advised L that it couldnt  consider its request to write off Mr Ws loan 
until a financial statement had been provided.  It also said that it had added L as an appointed 
third party on Mr Ws account and removed  the existing third party,  which was Mr Ws father.
Mr Ws loan account defaulted in August 2018.
L complains about the delay in HSBC responding to its requests. And says that it isnt 
acceptable HSBC  removed Mr Ws father as an appointed third party on his account as Mr 
W needs his father to help him manage  his affairs. Its explained  these factors  significantly 
impacted on Mr Ws mental health, causing him further anxiety and hardship. 
L asked that Mr Ws father is re-added as a third party to the account alongside itself. And 
that HSBC write off the outstanding balance of Mr Ws loan as it is causing him severe 
distress and mental anguish.
HSBC apologised  for the delay in responding to Ls letters. It said Mr Ws father  had never 
been removed  as a third party on the account  and it held authority to speak to him on Mr Ws 
behalf. But it declined  the request to write off the loan as it felt the income and expenditure 
details L had now provided showed Mr W could afford to make  payments towards  his loan. It 
said that if this wasnt  the case  L should speak to its specialist team who deal with 
customers who are suffering with health difficulties. And it explained  the specialist team can 
offer different  solutions  according to circumstances.
Our investigator felt that the evidence showed Mr W could afford to make some  payments 
towards the loan,  and that a payment plan could  be agreed with HSBC.  The investigator said 
theyd expect HSBC  and Mr W to maintain a good  relationship in coming up with a plan to 
repay the outstanding loan balance taking into account Mr Ws position. And they didnt  think 
writing off the debt was realistic. 
Ref: DRN47988612The investigator also found that Mr Ws father hadnt  in fact been removed as a third party 
on Mr Ws account, and so didnt  think HSBC had done anything  wrong  in this respect. They  
said there was no dispute  as to HSBCs  delay in responding  to L, but noted there had been 
some confusion as HSBC had been  dealing with both L and Mr Ws father about the matter.  
The investigator also said that HSBC had now offered  Mr W £100 compensation for any 
inconvenience caused by its delay in responding to this complaint. And that they felt this 
offer was fair.
L, on behalf of Mr W, asked for this complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said Mr Ws 
health had deteriorated since he took out the loan. And it didnt feel it was practical  to negotiate  
a payment arrangement with HSBC. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly let me start by saying that Im very sorry to hear about  Mr Ws situation. Its clear that 
his financial affairs are causing him great distress and anxiety. I hope that a resolution to this 
matter will reduce some of the strain he is feeling. 
Id expect to see that HSBC has treated  Mr W positively and sympathetically in light of his 
mental health and financial difficulties. L has complained about  delays  and administration on 
the part of HSBC. And I can understand why its frustrated about  what  happened  here. But 
Ive looked closely  at HSBCs actions. And overall Im persuaded HSBC has responded to 
Mr Ws situation fairly and reasonably. Ill explain  why.
HSBC has agreed that it didnt reply to Ls initial letter in January 2018.  But its told us that this 
was due to confusion caused  by the fact it also received  contact from Mr Ws father about Mr Ws 
account around the same time. Its also explained that it couldnt accept the first letter of authority 
L sent to it as this letter was generic and not signed by a specific person.
 
HSBCs records  show that Mr Ws father  called to notify it of Mr Ws difficulties in January 
2018, shortly after L sent its first letter. After speaking to Mr Ws father HSBC reversed the 
latest direct  debit payment that had been taken towards  the loan in order  to stop Mr Ws 
bank account  from being overdrawn.  It put the account on hold for 60 days. And it sent a 
letter to Mr Ws fathers  address which explained  that Mr Ws account  had been  passed to 
HSBCs Specialist Support Team, and enclosed income and expenditure and debt and 
mental health forms. HSBC asked  for these to be completed so it could better  understand 
Mr Ws situation. It also provided the phone number for its Specialist  Support Team if Mr W 
needed further assistance. 
In March 2018 HSBC received completed  income  and expenditure forms from Mr Ws father, 
and a letter  of authority  for it to speak  to him on Mr Ws behalf. It telephoned  Mr Ws father  to 
discuss the content of these  forms on the 29 March 2018. Ive listened  to a recording  of this 
call, and I can hear that HSBCs advisor raised the possibility of Mr W making considerably  
reduced repayments towards his loan based  on an amount that appeared affordable  given 
the financial information provided.  The call ended with Mr Ws father saying he would 
discuss this with Mr W and contact HSBC.  
Ref: DRN47988613Its unfortunate HSBC  didnt also respond to Ls earlier letter. And I can see how earlier 
engagement with L would have helped Mr W and his father. But I can also understand how 
and why confusion  arose. And Im satisfied HSBC  liaised with Mr Ws father  about  Mr Ws 
situation in a positive and sympathetic manner. And that it was reasonable for it to continue 
contacting Mr Ws father  at this point  in the circumstances.
On 9 May 2018  HSBC sent a further  letter again asking for Mr W to contact its Specialist 
Support Team. The letter explained the next steps  in the default process and reiterated that 
HSBC wanted  to continue to work with Mr W and wouldnt apply  any additional charges or 
interest to his account. It also gave details of free money advice  organisations Mr W could 
contact for assistance. 
On the same  date HSBC  sent a letter to Mr Ws father advising it was still waiting for an 
update as to Mr Ws circumstances following its phone call of 29 March 2018.  And over the 
next few months  HSBC  has shown us it continued  to send letters about Mr Ws account and. 
kept him informed of the default process and the fact his account had been  passed to its in-
house Repayment Services Team. 
L sent HSBC further letters on Mr W and his fathers  behalf  in May 2018.  After this HSBC  did 
respond to L, and it put Mr Ws account on hold for another 30 days.  I cant  see that HSBC 
had any conversations with L about the possibility of agreeing a reduced repayment plan on 
Mr Ws behalf prior to sending its final response letter to this complaint.  And I think  that 
would have been a helpful step for it to have taken.  However L has told us that the first 
discussion it had with Mr W and his father was to see if it could help Mr W make an 
affordable payment arrangement.  But that it had concluded, along with Mr W and his father, 
that this wasnt possible.  So even if HSBC  had had been more proactive in initiating 
discussions about a reduced repayment arrangement with L as well as Mr Ws father, I think 
its likely  the parties would still have disputed the best way to resolve this situation for Mr W. 
L has requested that HSBC write  off Mr Ws loan. Its told us Mr W is particularly vulnerable 
due to his mental  health conditions. And its suggested that the bank should stop pursuing 
the debt in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance  set out in the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC)  section  7.10.1.
I appreciate Mr Ws circumstances  have changed  since he took out the loan and he is 
struggling with his mental health. And I have taken into account the medical evidence 
provided which explains that he is struggling  with a personality disorder and that dealing 
financial issues is anxiety provoking  and can be overwhelming for him. However, having 
taken everything into consideration I dont agree that HSBC  is required to write off this loan 
at this time.  
A business should consider a write  off in very particular circumstances. But based on the 
information its been provided, I think  HSBC  reached a fair decision when it declined  to write 
off Mr Ws loan. And that its acted in line with industry guidelines, such as those from the 
Money and Advice  Liaison  Group (MALG) which are referenced in CONC 7.2.3. These  set 
out guidance for helping  customers  with debt and mental  health  issues.
Mr W has had the benefit of the loan. And the outstanding balance  is money  that HSBC is 
rightfully owed. For HSBC to consider writing off Mr Ws debt, it would need to be convinced  
there is little chance  of Mr W being able to repay it, and that his condition  isnt going to improve.
Ref: DRN47988614Whilst I appreciate Mr W finds  financial matters difficult to manage,  I can see he has 
representatives who have  been  liaising with the bank on his behalf. And I agree with HSBCs  
conclusion that the financial information its been  provided shows  that Mr W can afford  to 
make repayments towards  his loan. So although its clear the full contractual  repayments are 
not affordable  for him, I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC  is asking Mr W and his 
representatives to work  with it to reduce his debt at this time. And I hope that agreement of 
an affordable repayment  plan will help to reduce the burden Mr W is feeling.
I can see HSBC has previously given  assurances that Mr Ws debt will continue to be 
managed by HSBC.  Its Specialist Support  Team is dealing with the account. And it has 
confirmed no further charges  or interest have been  added to Mr Ws loan balance.  
I know L has concerns about  the accuracy of the financial  information  that has been 
provided to HSBC. But its reasonable for HSBC to ask for information to help it understand 
a Mr Ws financial  situation. And to use this to consider how it can best assist him in the 
circumstances. I appreciate this might  be difficult to collate, but if L doesnt feel the current 
information the bank has is accurate it should submit a new income and expenditure form to 
HSBC. Id expect HSBC to take any new information  into consideration. 
I accept HSBCs letter to L suggesting that Mr Ws father had been removed as a third party  
from Mr Ws account was unhelpful. And I can see why this would have caused alarm.  But 
Im satisfied that the error  was the content  of this letter, rather than any action HSBC had 
actually taken regarding  Mr Ws account.  And I think HSBCs apology for this mistake is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
HSBC has offered £100 compensation to resolve  this complaint. Its told us this offer is to 
apologise for the inconvenience caused  by a service error  it made  whereby it delayed  
logging the complaint raised by L, and therefore responded to it later than it should  have. 
Again I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC should pay Mr W £100 compensation to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L, on behalf of 
Mr W, to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020. 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798861