K822xcomplaint
Mr L and Ms C complain that National Westminster  Bank Plc should not have  sold them a 
fixed rate loan with account number ending ***1271. They  now want to repay their loan, and 
they do not believe NatWest should  apply an Early Repayment Charge (ERC).
(Mr L and Ms C have previously made a complaint about a loan with a different account 
number. I understand  they have reached  agreement with NatWest  about that loan, and it 
does not form part of this complaint.)
background 
Mr L, Ms C and a third partner borrowed money in 2005. In 2007, Mr L and Ms C repaid the 
original borrowing using  a loan from NatWest. The new loan  which  was in the names  of 
Mr L and Ms C only  had a term of just over 23 years, and was fixed at 6.79% for the whole 
of its term. 
In late 2015, NatWest made some changes to Mr L and Ms Cs loan. The effect of the 
changes was that their monthly payment reduced slightly.
Mr L and Ms C later complained about the sale of their loan. Briefly, they said they hadnt 
realised the ERC could  be so large.  
Mr L and Ms C were not satisfied with NatWests response to their complaint, so they 
referred the matter  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  NatWest consented to my 
consideration of their complaint, regardless of any possible time bar issues.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2019. My conclusions  were:
This complaint isnt about events in 2005,  so there  is no need for me to consider 
whether NatWest did anything wrong at that time.
NatWest should  have given the partners more information about break costs in 2007.  
If it had done so, they would have chosen  to fix the interest  rate on their loan for a 
shorter period of 5 years. NatWest  should  pay compensation to the partners with the 
aim of putting them in the position they would have  been  in if theyd taken a 5 year fix 
in 2007.
In light of my conclusions about  NatWests actions in 2007,  it was not necessary for 
me to make  any findings about whether NatWest also made errors in 2013 or 2015. 
Neither party entirely agreed with my findings,  but they were both prepared  to accept them. 
Mr L and Ms C also asked for clarification  about  how redress  should  be calculated.  I said:
Broadly, my aim here is to put the complainants  in the position they would have 
been in if theyd had a fixed  rate loan over a 5 year term [ending  in 2012] rather than 
a 23 year term. That means several things:
1.Their loan balance  would now be lower  because the interest rate on their 
loan would have  been lower between  2012 and today, so their loan balance  
would have reduced faster than it actually did.
Ref: DRN484994022.Their loan payments  from 2012  onwards would have been  lower than their 
actual payments were   again because the interest rate on their loan would 
have been lower.
3.Their loan would now be on a variable rate basis.
I think the fairest way to redress the first issue is for NatWest to calculate what  the 
complainants loan balance would have  been on the date of my final decision, on the 
assumption their loan had been  converted to a variable rate basis  in 2012 and they 
then paid the amounts due under the variable  rate loan contract. NatWest should 
then reduce the complainants  actual  loan balance to that amount. 
For the second issue, I consider that NatWest  should make a cash  payment to the 
complainants of the difference between the amounts they actually paid to their loan 
and the amounts they would have  paid had it been  converted to a variable rate in 
2012. Since they have been deprived of money, NatWest  should  add interest  to 
those payments at a rate of 8% per year simple (calculated from the date each 
payment was made until the date NatWest  settles  the complaint). If NatWest deducts  
tax, it must send a tax deduction certificate  with the payments.
For the third issue, I consider that NatWest  should simply convert the loan to a 
variable rate basis with effect from the date of my final decision. 
NatWest wrote to me on 29 August 2019  setting out how it intended to carry out the redress 
calculation, and providing some figures.  I have shared that email  with Mr L and Ms Cs 
representative, and they have had the opportunity to comment on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision, for the same reasons. I therefore  confirm 
those provisional  conclusions as final.
I am satisfied that the calculation method NatWest described in its email of 29 August 2019  
is appropriate. However, the calculation will need  to be re-run to bring it up to the date of this 
final decision.
Im aware that Mr L would like me to award  the whole of the compensation as cash  redress  
(that is, without making any adjustments to the loan balance). But in the specific 
circumstances here,  I dont think that would be a fair outcome. I consider that if everything 
had happened  as it should, Mr L and Ms Cs loan would have been fixed for only 5 years 
from 2007  and if that had been  the case, their outstanding loan balance  would now be 
lower than the actual  balance  of their loan. So, I think it is fair for part of NatWests  redress  
to be in the form of an adjustment  to their loan balance, and the remainder to be paid as 
cash. NatWest should  add interest at 8% per year simple to the cash element of the redress 
only.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay compensation to Mr L 
and Ms C as set out above  calculated  up to the date of this final decision. 
Ref: DRN48499403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4849940