K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about the advice she received in 2012  to put the proceeds of a 
Pension Sharing Order  (PSO) into a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP). The SIPP  was 
used to access three investments, all of which have performed poorly  meaning Ms W looks  
to have suffered  a financial  loss. She holds  her adviser responsible.  Her advisers  firm was 
an appointed representative of The On-Line Partnership Limited  (On-Line Limited) so it is 
On-Line Limited  that is responsible for this complaint. 
background
Following a PSO, just under £58,000 was to be transferred from Ms Ws ex-husbands 
pension to a pension in her own name. Ms W met with her adviser on 23 January 2012 for 
guidance on this. A fact find was completed  and a Financial Planning Recommendations 
report prepared. A SIPP  with provider  A was recommended.  Ms W signed the application 
forms to set up the SIPP on the same day, 23 January,  and on 30 January provider A sent 
confirmation to the adviser that the SIPP had been opened. The proceeds of the PSO were  
transferred to the SIPP on 14 March.
Ms Ws SIPP held cash  initially, but not for long. Her SIPP  statement shows that two 
investments were made  on 22 March and a further  investment made  on 12 April.  The 
investments were in gold (£5,000), Argentinian  arable farmland (£40,000) and a Brazilian 
timber plantation  (£10,250). 
The investments performed poorly,  prompting  Ms W to complain to On-Line Limited  about  
the advice she had been given. Around  the time of her complaint, her two South American 
investments had been given a nil value, and her gold holding had approximately halved  in 
value.
On-Line Limited  didnt  uphold Ms Ws complaint. It said that the adviser  had advised her to 
set up the SIPP but hadnt advised  her with regards to the actual investments she made  
(which, it says, the adviser had no awareness of). It said the SIPP  was recommended  
because Ms W wanted to self-invest and wanted  to access higher risk, less conventional,  
investments. It also said Ms W viewed her PSO monies as a bonus  that afforded  her some 
freedom to invest in a higher risk way. And it said an unregulated  introducer had already 
persuaded Ms W with regards to her investments and that she wouldnt have been  easily 
deterred from this action.   
Ms W referred her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought the complaint  should  be upheld.  
He thought the SIPP was unsuitable given that there  were likely to have been cheaper 
alternatives available and because Ms Ws intended investments were  unsuitable  for her. 
On-Line Limited  disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision is to uphold 
Ms Ws complaint. I explain why below.
Ref: DRN45960212was the advice suitable?
My starting point here is Ms Ws SIPP application form. On page 5, theres a box for 
proposed investments. The three  investments in question were hand written  in that box. 
I consider it likely that this was done with the help of the adviser during the advice meeting  
given Ms W signed the application form that day  23 January  and it was a colleague of 
the adviser (rather  than Ms W) that then sent the application form on to provider A. It also 
seems likely to me that the proposed investments were  discussed during the meeting given 
Ms W knew about them at the time (as evidenced by the application form and the fact she 
made the investments so soon after setting  up the SIPP) and the adviser had based his 
recommendation on Ms Ws apparent desire to self-invest.
So even though Ms W invested in cash initially, Im satisfied the adviser  would have known 
her intended  investments.  And even if Im wrong  on that, the regulators rules  meant  that 
On-Line Limited  ought to have found  out what Ms Ws intentions  were for investing the 
money in any event. So ignorance here would  be no excuse. Ill explain why.
On-Line Limited  had a duty to act in Ms Ws best interests and give suitable advice under the 
Conduct of Business rules (COBS). Im satisfied  it couldnt do this without considering  the 
overall transaction, including  the suitability  of the investment  strategy that the SIPP  was 
taken out to facilitate.  Given  the adviser recommended the SIPP to hold the three  
investments in question, the recommendation of the SIPP  wrapper cant be detached from 
the risks of the investments  in the way On-Line  Limited has argued.
The regulator covered this particular  issue in 2013  when it issued an alert reminding 
advisers that when  advising  on a transfer to a SIPP,  consideration  should  be given to the 
suitability of the SIPP wrapper and the intended underlying  investments:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investmentsThe FSAs  view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given on a 
product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such  as SIPPs and other 
wrappers), consideration of the suitability  of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper  and 
the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes.
 
The recommendation in this case came  before the alert.  But the alert was issued because  
the regulator found issues with how some advisers  were operating in this area. So the alert 
was a reminder of existing  obligations  under the COBS rules. It did not introduce a new set 
of obligations.  So Im satisfied that it gives a good  indication of what  the adviser should have 
done here  which  was to ensure the underlying investments were suitable.  
The majority of Ms Ws SIPP was invested  in South American agriculture, with a smaller 
amount invested  in directly in gold. In addition to being unregulated, the investments strike 
me as being  non-mainstream,  speculative and not readily realisable. The potential for 
currency movements would also have  added to the risk. And given that there were only three 
investments, there wouldnt have  been much in the way of diversification. 
Ref: DRN45960213So I think Ms Ws investments, and investment strategy, would only have been suitable for 
certain individuals  for example, those  with an extremely high tolerance to risk or with 
particular knowledge  of non-mainstream investments or with particularly large portfolios. Ive 
seen nothing in Ms Ws circumstances to suggest  anything like this. She doesnt  appear  to 
have been a particularly knowledgeable investor, or an investor  with any experience in the 
types of investment in question. And for reasons that I will come on to, Im not persuaded 
she had a high attitude to risk or was in a position  to absorb potentially  large  losses.  
I recognise Ms W completed a questionnaire  which asked her a series  of questions  about 
her attitude  to risk. This gave her a score of 8 on a scale of 1 to 10. This corresponded with 
a high  attitude  to risk on its scorecard  (a 9 would  have been very high risk and a 10 
highest risk). However, questions 19 and 20 suggest Ms Ws attitude to risk wasnt as high 
as On-Line Limited has suggested. Question  19 asks Ms W how comfortable she feels  when 
taking a financial risk. She has ticked the box for comfortable rather  than very 
comfortable. And question 20 asks Ms W to place  herself on a scale  from risk averse  to a 
risk taker.  Ms W has ticked the box for a moderate  risk taker.  
I appreciate that the aim of the questionnaire  is to put some objective rigour to the process  of 
assessing someones attitude to risk. Even so, the evidence Ive been  provided with shows  
Ms W as being a moderate risk taker who is comfortable  not very comfortable  in taking 
a financial risk. Its difficult to overlook this. Ive also taken into consideration the fact that 
Ms W told us  persuasively in my view  that she wasnt a high risk investor.
Its also interesting to note what the recommendations report  says with regards to Ms Ws 
attitude to risk:
Your attitude to accepting risk is high.
Your priority is likely  to be making  higher returns on your investments but you are still 
probably concerned  about losing money  due to rises and falls.
Your preferred investment  portfolio  is likely  to contain mainly higher-risk investments such as 
shares with a few lower-risk investments such as bonds.
So the recommendations report says someone  in Ms Ws position would be concerned  
about losses and would  be looking for a portfolio  containing nothing riskier than shares and 
bonds. Given all the above, Im satisfied Ms W would have been prepared  to take some risk 
with her investments   allocating some of her portfolio to shares for instance. But I dont 
think she would have  had the risk appetite to invest  in the more speculative,  illiquid,  
investments she ended up with.
Ive considered On-Line Limiteds point  that Ms W viewed her PSO monies as a bonus that 
gave her the opportunity to be more speculative  with her investments. It argues this because  
Ms W wasnt expecting  to benefit from a PSO  and because Ms W had her workplace  group  
personal pension  (GPP) to rely on. 
Im not persuaded by this. Ms W has told us she wasnt expecting  to benefit from a PSO.  
Nevertheless, I cant find any reference in the fact find, or recommendations report, to her 
viewing it as money she was willing invest in a highly  speculative manner. And whilst Ms W 
did have her workplace GPP, this was valued at just under £47,000 at the time. So Ms Ws 
newly created SIPP  accounted for over half of her pension assets. It seems very unlikely to 
me that Ms W would have  viewed over half her pension  as being something she was willing 
to put at significant risk. But even if she did, it was the duty of the adviser to provide her with 
suitable advice.  And it was, in my view, remiss of him to have advised Ms W to open the 
Ref: DRN45960214SIPP knowing how much  of her pension was going to end up in unsuitable investments as a 
result.
The fact that Ms Ws GPP subsequently  grew in value doesnt change  any of this. Just 
because Ms W, and her employer, were paying  in regular contributions  at the time doesnt 
mean she would have thought the future size of the fund was in any way assured (and 
theres nothing in the fact find or recommendations letter to show she did think along  these  
lines). And having such a large proportion of a pension in such high risk assets on the 
assumption that a workplace pension would, over time, be sufficient  to reduce the impact of 
any potential losses resulting from those assets doesnt strike  me as being suitable  advice.
I recognise that Ms W was seeking ethical investments and that the investments in question 
could be seen as having an ethical dimension.  Even  so, an investment that was particularly 
unsuitable for the reasons  given  above wouldnt somehow become suitable just because it 
fulfilled one area of interest for a client.
Given all the above, Im satisfied the investments werent suitable for Ms W. It follows  that 
the adviser failed  in his responsibilities  because he should have ensured the investments 
were suitable when he advised  on the SIPP. He didnt do so despite being  in a position  to 
know, in my view, what Ms Ws intentions were.
what would  Ms W have  done?
On-Line Limited  says Ms W was introduced to the investments by other parties.  It says she 
was committed to the investments and wouldnt have been easily deterred from them.  
Ive considered this very carefully because in situations like this, my role is to put someone 
back in the position they would have been  in had it not been for a businesss  actions.  if 
Ms W would still have  gone ahead with the investments  even if advised  against doing so  
then she would have  ended up in the same position whatever the adviser  did. It wouldnt 
necessarily be fair to make On-Line  Limited accountable for any losses in such a scenario. 
However, even if Ms W had been introduced  to the investments previously, its not clear to 
me why she would have  continued to be interested in them if shed been clearly advised,  by 
a professional adviser, that they would have been unsuitable for someone in her 
circumstances. I think  it likely that she would  have taken that advice. Of course, if Ms W 
chose to ignore  such advice, then the adviser could have treated her as an insistent client 
and documented  this clearly. But theres no indication that Ms W was acting against the 
advice shed been given. 
The SIPP wrapper
Our adjudicator said Ms W shouldnt have been  advised to put her PSO funds in a SIPP, 
primarily because SIPPs are typically more  expensive  than many  other  options  (such as a 
stakeholder pension or Ms Ws GPP).  In response, On-Line Limited  said the SIPP  wasnt 
that much  more expensive than potential alternatives.  
In a sense, the adviser would have been correct in recommending a SIPP  given he took the 
view that Ms W wanted to self-invest.  A SIPP makes  sense in that context. But, as outlined  
above, the issue is whether Ms Ws intended investments were suitable for her. I think  not. If 
Ms W had been advised against the investments, the question would then become one of 
what would  have been suitable investments for her and, therefore,  what would have been 
Ref: DRN45960215the most  appropriate  pension wrapper to access those investments. A SIPP may still have 
been appropriate  but assessing what would have  happened in this scenario is difficult. 
My view is that Ms W would have still wanted to take some  investment risk with her pension.  
It looks like she did, after all, describe herself  as a moderate risk taker. But having been 
advised that her three proposed investments werent  likely  to be suitable  for her, I dont think  
she would  have still wanted to self-invest.  So, all things considered, I think she would have 
wanted access to different  asset classes, including equities, but I think she would have been 
willing to do that through  mainstream  pooled  funds. I dont  think  she would have needed a 
SIPP to do that. 
Fair Compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms W (as far as reasonably 
possible) in the position she would  now be in if hadnt been  for the businesss actions.
Its not possible to say precisely what Ms W would have done differently. But Im satisfied 
what Ive set out below is a fair and reasonable approach to compensation given Ms Ws 
circumstances and my findings as outlined earlier. 
what should On-Line  Limited do?
To compensate Ms W fairly, On-Line Limited must:
Compare the performance  of Ms Ws investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If this shows that redress is due, then this should  be paid to Ms Ws pension plan. The 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, 
it should be paid directly to Ms W as a lump sum. But had it been  possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would  otherwise  have  been  paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Ws actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Ms W is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the reduction would  equal  the current  basic 
rate of tax. However, if Ms W would have  been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms W in a clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN45960216investment name status benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)
SIPP mixedFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income  Total
Return Indexdate of transferdate of my 
decision
actual value
This means  the actual value of the SIPP at the end date. 
My aim is to return Ms W to the position  she would have been in but for the actions of 
On-Line Limited.  This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be 
readily sold on the open market) as appears  to be the case  here.  It would be difficult to know  
the actual value of these  investments. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil to arrive  at fair compensation. On-Line  Limited should take ownership of the illiquid 
investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be included  in the actual value of the SIPP used  in the calculation.
If On-Line Limited is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments the actual  value should  
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. On-Line Limited  may wish to require that 
Ms W provides an undertaking to pay On-Line Limited any amount she may receive from the 
investments in the future.  That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. On-Line Limited will need  to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investments would have been  worth at the end date had they produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investments  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if On-Line  Limited totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end when determining  the fair value  instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN45960217why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms W wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms Ws circumstances and risk attitude.
The SIPP only exists because of the three underlying investments. In order  for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, all three investments need  to be removed. But if 
On-Line Limited  cant buy them Ms W is faced  with future SIPP  fees. I think  it is fair to assume 
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if On-Line Limited  cant buy the investments,  it should pay an 
amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based  on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
The amount  of any redress should  be paid within 28 days of On-Line Limited  being  informed 
of Ms Ws acceptance of the decision. Interest will then apply  at 8% simple per year from the 
date of decision to the date of settlement. Income  tax may be payable  on any interest 
awarded.
In addition, On-Line  Limited should pay Ms W £200 to reflect the trouble and upset she has 
been through as a result of the disruption to her retirement planning.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is to uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
The On-Line  Partnership  Limited must  now pay redress in line with the approach outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4596021