K822xcomplaint
Mr A, a director  of V complains about  how Barclays Bank PLC has dealt with international 
payments.
background 
Mr A says Barclays  has delayed international payments which  have led to a number of 
problems. He says the company has lost staff as a result and hes spent some considerable 
time trying to sort matters out. Mr A would like Barclays to review its policy and procedures 
on international payments as well as pay substantial compensation for its mistakes in line 
with his professional  charging rate. And for the consequences caused by those mistakes.
Barclays accepts making  mistakes and offered compensation. It says some international 
payments are held for screening  in line with the regulations it operates under. It also says it 
will not pay compensation in line with professional charging rates as Mr A hasnt provided it 
with his professional  expertise. Barclays says it tried to contact V on three  occasions  to 
obtain information before returning a payment  of $600.
Mr A brought the complaint to us and our adjudicator looked at three complaints which were 
two transactions  in December 2017  and a transaction for $600.  The adjudicator thought  in 
respect of the first complaint- for a payment of $3,000 that Barclays  should  have returned 
this payment far sooner.  She recommended Barclays increase its compensation offer to 
£300 in addition to the interest of £24.01  and the refund fee of £15 which  Barclays  had 
previously offered to refund.
The adjudicator thought  Barclays  had tried to obtain information about  the $600  transaction 
but V hadnt  provided it. So she thought Barclays had acted fairly  by not processing it.
The adjudicator thought  Barclays  had made  a mistake about another transaction  in 
December 2017.  But thought Barclays had paid a fair and reasonable amount of £60 
compensation which Mr A had accepted.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and has asked for an ombudsmans  review.  He says the 
compensation should be £5,000.
Barclays has agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons, that Barclays  has made a fair 
and reasonable offer of compensation of £300  in addition to the interest of £24.01 and the 
refund of the £15 fee.
.
There is no doubt here that Barclays made  a number of mistakes when dealing with V and 
its international transactions. I appreciate Mr A would like a review  of Barclays  business  
practices in this area and for an agreement for future work to be agreed. But as the 
adjudicator has explained,  we are not the regulator  of banks and building societies. So I 
cant fairly make the orders  or review Mr A would like.
Ref: DRN40126362I have no doubt  Mr A and the staff of V was caused  inconvenience by what took place.  But 
Im satisfied that Barclays has apologised for its mistakes and agreed to pay what I think  is a 
fair and reasonable offer of compensation. 
I also agree  with the adjudicator that Barclays couldve  returned the $3,000  payment and 
updated V far sooner.  But Im satisfied the offer of £300 compensation is fair and reasonable 
as well as the offer to refund the fee and pay interest of £24.01.  I appreciate Mr A says that 
offer is not enough and he should  receive  compensation to reflect  how long this problem 
took to sort out and that figure  should  reflect his professional charging rate. But Im satisfied 
that Mr A wasnt acting in his professional  capacity  when dealing  with this issue and wasnt  
providing Barclays with his professional expertise. So for that reason I cant  fairly order  
Barclays to pay compensation in line with those professional rates.
Im satisfied that having looked at Barclays records it tried to contact V about the $600 
transaction without  success. So in those circumstances I dont think  Barclays  made  a 
mistake by not processing that transaction. I can also see that Mr A has accepted Barclays  
offer of compensation for the other problem in December 2017. I think that compensation 
payment was fair and reasonable and fairly reflected the level of Barclays mistake and the 
impact it had on V.
I appreciate how strongly Mr A feels about  whats happened as well as his views  on the 
compensation offer. For those reasons I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to accept 
Barclays offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Mr As acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4012636