K822xcomplaint
Ms O complains that Eldon Insurance Services Limited didnt tell her that she had 
comprehensive cover  on her motor insurance  policy.
background 
Ms O called Eldon following an accident  with her car. She said she had the impression that 
she had third party cover only and not fully comprehensive cover.  Mrs O took her car to 
garages for repairs estimates  but was told that shed be better to scrap  the car, which  she 
did. Mrs O later found that she did have comprehensive cover. But Eldon said it hadnt told 
her that she had third party only. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Eldons 
advisor didnt tell Ms O that she had comprehensive  cover or whether she had a successful 
claim. He thought Eldon should have done  more and accepted Ms Os claim.  He thought the 
car would then have  been  scrapped  and Ms O would have been paid the cars value. He 
recommended that Eldon  should  retrospectively put in a total loss claim for Ms O and pay 
Ms O £150  compensation for the trouble and upset caused her. 
Eldon agreed to do this. But Ms O thought Eldon should pay her £400 compensation for the 
inconvenience of being without a car for 11 months. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms O called Eldon to give details of her accident, the advisor  opened her policy  to 
check her details. He checked  these,  but didnt tell Ms O whether she had comprehensive  
cover or third party  only. Ms O then said she couldnt access her policy  documents  online. 
The advisor checked this for her and gave  her some details including  the name of the 
underwriter, but didnt  tell her the level of cover. There was no discussion about Ms Os own 
claim or her repairs. And Eldon didnt  make any further contact with Ms O about  this. 
Ms O said that the policy online was an old one that showed third party only. Ms O said she 
later asked for hard copies of her policy documents and found that she had comprehensive 
cover. By that stage  shed  scrapped  her car. So, three months after the accident, Ms O said 
she wanted to claim.  Eldon responded asking for relevant documentation for its engineers to 
consider. But Ms O didnt  provide these at the time.  
So I agree that Eldon  could have  done  more at the time Ms O provided details of the 
accident to also explain her level of cover  and whether her claim would be accepted. Ms O 
said the online policy was then out of date. But I havent seen evidence of this. From what  
she told the advisor, Ms O didnt  then know how to access her policy online. 
When a business  makes a mistake, as Eldon agrees it has done  here,  we expect it to restore 
the consumers  position as far as its possible to do so. Eldon has agreed to retrospectively  
put in a total loss claim for the underwriter to consider. 
Ref: DRN42527852I think thats fair and reasonable  as I can see that Ms Os policy was comprehensive and she 
lost out because she didnt make a claim.  Ms O can then ask for consideration to be given to 
the loss of her personalised number  plates and her recovery costs.  If Ms O is unhappy with 
the settlement,  then she can complain to the underwriter. 
Ms O said shed  been without her car for 11 months  and wanted compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused. But I dont think Eldon is responsible for her being without a car 
for all of this period.  When Ms O called Eldon after she realised she had comprehensive 
cover, she was invited  to provide relevant documents to support her claim. If shed done that 
then her claim would  arguably  have  been  dealt with after three months. 
The investigator recommended  that Eldon should  pay Ms O £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its not doing  enough  to support Ms O at the time. I think  thats 
fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with what Id award in similar  circumstances. I dont 
require Eldon to increase this. I can see that Ms O has already received the compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Eldon Insurance  Services  Limited to 
do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1.Put in a claim to the policys underwriter for the total loss of Ms Os car.
2.Pay Ms O £150 compensation, as its already done, for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252785