K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that the car he financed through a fixed  sum loan agreement  with 
Shawbrook Bank Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. The car was replaced  but the 
replacement car had issues resulting in Mr H selling it to buy an alternative. Mr H wants  
compensation for the issues so that he can clear the debt that has arisen  through this 
process.
Background
Mr H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook  in September  2017 to 
acquire a used  car. Two months  later he experienced an issue  with the cars  passenger  
side bushes. The issue was fixed under  warranty but the repair  wasnt  carried  out 
correctly resulting in the wheel coming off and causing an accident.
The repairing garage accepted a mistake  had been made and Mr Hs car was swapped  
for a similar  car. Mr H then experienced issues with his car which he was told could cost 
between £3,000 and £4,000 to repair. He said he couldnt afford the repairs and so he 
sold the car and bought a cheaper  car with the proceeds. Mr H said he is now left with a 
debt to pay for a car that he doesnt have and that wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Mr H raised  his complaint with Shawbrook in March 2019.
Shawbrook said that the car provided to Mr H had passed an MOT in September 2017 
when it was acquired. It also said that had the issue with the wheel bushes  on the 
original car been present at the point of supply then Mr H would have realised this at the 
outset. It said the issue wasnt raised until two months later suggesting it developed after 
acquisition. Shawbrook didnt  accept that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the 
point of acquisition  and so didnt accept  any liability  for the subsequent issues that arose.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr H doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
-  that is what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances. Having done so, Ive decided this complaint should not be 
upheld for these reasons: 
Mr H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to acquire a used car. Under certain  
circumstances, under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974, a consumer has 
an equal right to claim against  the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the 
goods or services,  if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the 
suppliers part. 
There is no suggestion that the car was misrepresented to Mr H and so I have 
considered whether  there was a breach of contract.  If the car provided  wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point  of sale, it could be said that there had been a breach 
of contract. The Consumer Rights  Act 2015,  sets out that the goods  would need  to 
Ref: DRN48831772meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory - taking into 
account any description of the goods,  the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. In the case of a car, factors such as the age and mileage are 
relevant.
At the point of acquisition Mr Hs car was seven  years old and had been  driven  
around 70,000  miles. Therefore it would be expected that the car would have 
experienced some wear  and tear. While I appreciate the issue with the bushes arose 
only a couple  of months after Mr H bought the car (and I can understand why this 
was upsetting for Mr H) issues can arise shortly after acquisition on used cars, even 
when they arent present at the point of supply.
I have limited evidence in regard to the issue with the car that occurred  in November 
2017, however  the car passed  a MOT on 18 September 2017. This suggests  the car 
was roadworthy  and fit for purpose at that time. I have noted the comments made  by 
Shawbrook that Mr H would have noticed the issue straight away had it been present  
at the point of sale. I also accept that the bushes would wear over time. Given  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the other evidence  provided,  I find, on balance,  it is 
more likely than not that the issue with Mr Hs car that arose two months after 
purchase was due to wear and tear rather than an inherent  fault.  
Because, on balance,  I do not find that there was a fault present a the point of supply 
that caused the issue with Mr Hs car (and I have no other  evidence  to suggest the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of purchase) I do not find that there  was 
a breach of contract.  Because of this I do not think that Shawbrook  can be held liable 
for the issue Mr H experienced with the original car or the subsequent problems he 
faced.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Shawbrook  Bank  
Limited to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883177