K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about the insurer  for the building where she lives, AXA Insurance  UK 
Plc. Thereve been multiple  problems with the building and in particular Ms Ms flat, all of 
which remain unresolved.
background
Ms M lives in a property comprised of a number  of flats. She holds the lease  to her flat and 
the freeholder  for the building  arranges the insurance.
For a number of years, until June 2014,  via an arrangement organised through  a broker, 
AXA provided the insurance  for the building. There were multiple  claims made during that 
time, and even after that time in respect  of damage that had occurred previously (before 
June 2014). Further damage  also occurred  after AXAs cover ended  and claims were  made  
to the new insurer about that.
In 2016 Ms M contacted  this service and said she was unhappy  that her home was still 
damaged. She reported damp,  infestation  of pests, tiles falling  off the bathroom  walls and 
cracking. She said the cracking had been  caused by the water company digging  a trench 
without underpinning the property. There had also been a problem  with the roof which the 
freeholder had fixed but water had come  in causing more damage.  She said no-one was 
helping her or sorting out the property.
Our investigator felt that AXA didnt need to do any work or accept liability  for any damage 
present at Ms Ms home. But he did think that AXA, at times, had caused  delays.  He said 
AXA should pay £250 compensation.
Neither AXA nor Ms M were satisfied with those findings. The complaint came  to me for a 
decision to be made. I issued a provisional decision because I didnt think  the complaint  
should be upheld.  I said:
water company causing cracks
In July 2014 the broker contacted AXA and told it of cracking that had been  occurring  since 
the water  company did work in 2013.  It was requested that a loss adjuster was appointed.  
The adjuster  arranged to visit Ms Ms home in October 2014.
Also in October 2014 the managing agents  for the property instructed a surveyor.  The 
surveyor reported that cracking within Ms Ms flat was likely age related. He didnt think the 
property itself was subsiding.
AXA declined the claim for crack  damage. Given the content of the expert  report I think  it 
acted fairly  and reasonably. I think there was likely some delay though between the broker  
making contact in July and the visit being arranged for October. Ill keep this period of delay 
in mind and come back to it later when I consider  if any compensation is due to Ms M. In 
respect of the cracking itself, Im not going  to make AXA do anything.
roof
The roof is a common part of the building, meaning that all leaseholders and the freeholder  
would be entitled  to complain about the insurer if repairs  were related to an insurance claim 
Ref: DRN48134052and they werent  happy with how the claim was being dealt with. In some  cases that might  
mean that I couldnt  make any findings about a complaint raised  by only one leaseholder.
However, here Im going to as it seems that only Ms Ms flat was affected by the leak from 
the roof. It is also clear to me that the damage was first noted after the policy  with AXA 
ended and that the propertys  agents  accepted it was a maintenance issue that it had to deal 
with. So my finding in this respect is that AXA had no liability  for the roof damage or any 
delay that occurred  in respect of repairs or for the quality of the work done.
leak from taps
In 2012 and again in 2014 (just before AXAs policy ended), Ms M complained  to the water 
company because whilst the water  supply had been disconnected shed left taps in her 
bathroom open, meaning that when the supply came back  on water flooded  out of the taps 
causing damage.
In 2015 the broker  mentioned this damage to AXA. Details were provided  to the loss adjuster 
in respect of the complaints Ms M had made  to the water company.  However,  Im not sure 
the adjuster ever got to grips with this aspect. The claim was later closed as it was felt there 
wasnt enough evidence  that a loss had occurred or, if it had, that it had been during AXAs 
period of cover.
In a way I can understand some  of the problem the adjuster faced. Whilst Im able to pick out 
and dissect all the pertinent  occurrences I think this would have been more  difficult to do as 
the situations were  unravelling. There was a lot of claim activity occurring and often quite 
some time after damage had allegedly  occurred. Im also aware that AXA was aware of the 
involvement of the other  insurer  also and it seems  it was happy  to take on liability  for issues 
occurring in the bathroom. In light of all that was going on I think  AXAs  decision to not look 
at the bathroom  further at that point was fair and reasonable.
In saying  that Im also mindful that Ms M is mostly concerned about tiles falling off of the wall 
and most  of those at a high level. A leak caused  by taps being left open  would most likely 
cause damage at a lower level and more likely to the floor than the walls. I dont think  there
is any good reason  to say AXA should take on liability for the damage Ms M has complained 
about in the bathroom (tiles falling from the wall) on the basis  it is likely linked to the previous 
leaks from the taps. Im not going to make it do anything in this respect.
damage from next door
AXA accepted that a leaking sewage outlet  pipe caused damage to Ms Ms hall, stairs  and 
landing. Its prepared to do the work to rectify this damage along with repairing the front door 
damaged when access had to be gained to Ms Ms flat during the leak.  However,  Ms M 
hasnt signed  the paperwork to allow its contractors to start work  or paid the policy excess.
I know  Ms M is concerned  about  work not getting  done and who will be responsible  for 
things like the bathroom. But refusing to sign the paperwork  or pay the excess wont resolve 
that. Part of the landing that AXA is prepared to repair was also being affected  by damage to 
the roof. So it couldnt reasonably have  done  that work until the roof was repaired. It could 
have fixed the front door at any time though, had Ms M signed the paperwork and paid the 
excess. But despite AXAs repeated requests for her to do so, she never has. So I cant 
reasonably blame  AXA for the work  being outstanding.
Ref: DRN48134053As far as Im aware the leaking outlet  pipe wouldnt be likely to have caused any issues  with 
the tiles in the bathroom. If the outlet pipe ran down the outside of Ms Ms bathroom though 
then Id expect  AXA to give some further consideration to its liability  in this respect. And
I note that Ms M does report that a smell of waste comes from below the bathroom floor 
when that is lifted for work to be done. Id like AXA to respond specifically on this point when 
it replies to my provisional decision.
claim handling and timeliness
I can see that Ms M has had lots of problems  in her flat for a long time  the first instance of 
damage reported to the water  company  after taps were left open was 2012. With the 
cracking and damage caused by next doors sewage pipe occurring in 2013.  But the first 
report Ive seen being made  to AXA by the broker was July 2014.
Im not sure why AXA wasnt notified before  then. Its possible that Ms M had been dealing  
with the propertys agents and they hadnt passed  things on to the broker until then. Or the 
broker just hadnt  actioned things. Importantly, as far as this complaint against AXA is 
concerned, there is no sign that it knew of events  prior to the brokers  contact in July 2014  
but did nothing  about it.
That being said, AXA didnt act on the information received from the broker  in July straight 
away. In August the broker had to chase AXA for a response and it wasnt until several 
weeks after that that a loss adjuster was arranged. The visit took place on 10 October 2014, 
an expert report was then carried out and considered, with AXA declining  the claim re cracks 
a short  while later.
It was September 2016 before a further  visit was arranged, further contact having been  
made with it in January 2015, and work  remained outstanding in the meantime. However, 
the leaking roof was still an issue  into the early part of 2017. And whether AXA handled its 
side of things reasonably  or not during this extended  period of apparent  inactivity,  it couldnt 
do any internal repairs  whilst the roof continued leaking. Any frustration Ms M felt during this 
time couldnt have  been avoided by virtue  of any action AXA may or should have taken.
Overall Im not convinced  that AXA did too much wrong here. Or that if it did, Ms M suffered 
as a result. As Ive said there  has been lots of damage at the property over many years, 
some during  AXAs period of cover and some after. I think  AXA has tried to deal reasonably 
with the claims and that whether it had always acted  as it should have done or not Ms M 
would have suffered  frustration that was beyond its control or ability  to avoid.
AXA has accepted that Ms M will need  to be re-housed whilst  it does  the work it has 
accepted liability  for in the hall, stairs  and landing.  But I cant reasonably expect AXA to start 
actioning that until Ms M pays the excess that the policy requires and signs the paperwork 
that will allow the work  to start. I know Ms M is aware this is required and outstanding  but 
she seems unwilling to provide this. Any delays caused due to the fact AXA hasnt received 
these two reasonable things cant fairly  be blamed on AXA.  Unless  or until the excess  is 
paid, AXA doesnt need to do anything more. If the excess  is paid but Ms M still wont sign 
the paperwork then I think it would be reasonable, if AXA wants to, for it to look to settle in 
cash.
AXA could reasonably  have looked to do this before now,  in my opinion. But I think it has 
been mindful that Ms M doesnt want a cash settlement and may not be best placed to 
ensure her home  or at least  the damage  it is responsible for  is properly reinstated. So
Ref: DRN48134054I think it has acted reasonably by pursuing  the repair  option and I dont think it is to blame for 
the work  still being  outstanding.
responses to my provisional  decision
AXA said it was in agreement with my findings.  It said if Ms M pays the excess and signs  the 
paperwork it will have  its contractor look into the issue with the bathroom that it hadnt 
previously been  aware  of.
Ms M received my provisional decision. However, she didnt send any reply to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied by AXA saying it will look into the issue Ms M has raised  about  the smell coming 
from under  the floor in her bathroom. I think that is reasonable  and, in the circumstances 
doesnt require  me to change this non-uphold decision  to an uphold one. My decision 
remains as that set out provisionally (and above),  AXA didnt do too much  wrong  in the 
course of Ms Ms claim and it doesnt reasonably need to do anything more unless or until 
Ms M pays the excess  and signs the paperwork.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make  any award against  AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4813405