K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the difference in value between two pension plans he took out with 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited (Prudential). He feels  he was mis-sold a second 
policy when he should have been  advised  to increase contributions into his existing  plan 
instead. He is also unhappy about the life cover  which he took out with the second  plan.
background
Mr S took out a pension policy with Prudential in March 1985, paying  a gross monthly 
premium of £20.The plan was a Deferred  Annuity  Contract  which meant it provided a 
guaranteed minimum  return on retirement. But contributions could only be increased on the 
anniversary of the date the plan was taken out.
Mr S then took a second plan in October 1987,  with a gross monthly premium of £20. 
Included within the plan was a life cover benefit  of £25,000  which  cost an additional £5.25 
per month. This plan was different to the first in that there was no minimum guaranteed 
income. Instead contributions were invested into a fund which  was to grow  over its lifetime 
with the resulting amount  used to purchase an annuity on retirement. Contributions  to this 
plan were increased in September  2001  through a financial  adviser and a waiver  of premium 
option was added to the increase  in premiums.
In 2018, Mr S transferred both of these plans into a Prudential Retirement Account. The plan 
taken out in 1985 had a significantly higher transfer  value than the plan taken out in 1987. 
So, Mr S complained about the lesser performance  of the second plan and also that he 
shouldnt been  advised to take out a second  plan and could have made additional  
contributions to the first one instead.  But Prudential didnt  uphold  the complaint. It said Mr S 
had received a number  of benefits from taking  out a new plan.
Hed been able to increase his retirement provision straight away without having to 
wait a number  of months to increase his original plan. 
He didnt have  to pay the backdated  premiums that would have  been  due if hed 
increased the original  plan outside of its anniversary date.
He was able to add additional  life cover straight away  again without having to wait for 
the anniversary of the original plan.
Prudential also explained that the original plan paid out a guaranteed minimum income 
whereas the second plan paid out the value of the pension  as an investment, which then 
had to be converted into an annuity.  The calculation of the two plans meant that the original 
plan had a higher notional  transfer  value when  the plans were paid into the retirement 
account in 2018. Therefore, on that basis the original plan had a higher  value.  
But Prudential said it wouldnt have known this when the plans were  sold and the values now 
were based  on investment performance  and other factors   which  couldnt  have been 
predicted at the time the plans were taken out.
But Mr S didnt agree. He said he was mis-sold  the second policy as well as the life cover.  
He said he would have  been happy  to wait a further  six months  to increase contributions  to 
his original plan and had calculated that he was about £13,500 worse off as a result  of the 
advice to take out a second  plan. So, unhappy  with the outcome Mr S brought his complaint 
to us.
Ref: DRN48731742One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He pointed 
out that it would  not have been  possible  for Mr S to top-up his 1985 plan when he took out 
the 1987 plan. The terms and conditions  made  clear this could only be done on the 1985 
plans anniversary,  which was some six months before the date the second plan was taken 
out. Although  this could have been  managed  by paying back dated  premiums into the 1985  
plans anniversary or by waiting until the next anniversary, the adjudicator felt there was no 
evidence that Mr S was willing to do either  of these  things.
The adjudicator also felt that the fact the two transfer values were different in 2018  was not 
evidence in itself that one was mis-sold.  Because the plans were  both entirely  different in 
how they worked, the adjudicator felt it was always the case  the resulting transfer  values 
would have been different.  And,  because  the salient details of the life cover  element of the 
1987 plan (sum  assured,  cost, term and when it would pay out) were  noted on the signed 
application form, the adjudicator felt that Mr S would have been aware of it at the time.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view, and so as no resolution has been  found the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr S feels very strongly that he 
should have been advised to increase contributions  to his original plan  and that this has 
caused him to be worse  off overall  at retirement. And I have some  sympathy  for Mr S 
position as its clear now that his original plan does have a higher transfer value than the 
second plan. But I dont think this means that Prudential mis- sold the second plan and that it 
was unsuitable  for him. I know this will disappoint Mr S, so Ill explain why.
I think its important when  deciding on the outcome of this complaint to look at the context of 
the time in which this recommendation was made.  The regulations  in place in 1987 were  
very different to those of today and there  was much less requirement  for Prudential to keep  
records of any advice  it gave. Although  it would have  been required to consider Mr S 
financial circumstances and provide a suitable  recommendation.  
Mr S hasnt suggested that the recommendation to make further  provision for his retirement  
was unsuitable  just that Prudential should have used his existing plan to help provide that 
provision. But I think  there  would  have a number of reasons for the adviser at that time to 
believe that a new plan would have been  an appropriate recommendation.  The  new style 
plan had a number of features and benefits  of its own  different to the existing plan, and the 
recommendation gave Mr S the benefit  of an extra six months of contributions, allowed him 
to add life cover to the plan straight  away and he didnt have to potentially incur the 
significant cost of the backdated premiums from the first plans anniversary date. 
Ive also seen, from the detailed description of the second  plan  which  would have been 
made available to Mr S, that it had more flexibility built in and Mr S could have increased  or 
reduced, his contributions at any time during the life of the plan.  So  I think, on balance,  and 
given the passage of time, the recommendation of the newer style pension  was a 
reasonable one to make. 
I note that Mr S existing  plan included guarantees which meant he could expect a minimum 
guaranteed income at retirement. And as things have turned out those guarantees have 
provided him with a greater benefit  than the newer  plan.  But that wouldnt have been known 
at the time of the sale and Prudential  wouldnt  have been able to forecast  that in 1987.  So I 
Ref: DRN48731743think the adviser acted  reasonably by thinking he was giving Mr S an alternative plan which 
might provide him with similar benefits but with additional flexibility  during  the term.  
I know Mr S has demonstrated that the transfer value of the older plan is greater than the 
newer one. And that this means hes worse off. And I accept that has turned out to be the 
case. But I dont  think that would have  been  known in 1987 and I think  the adviser would 
have thought there were advantages to recommending the new plan, so I cant  safely  say 
now  with the benefit of hindsight, that wasnt a reasonable recommendation.  
I note Mr S is unhappy about  the life cover  that was added  to his plan. This life cover has 
now stopped but was added at the time he took out the second plan. As Ive already 
explained the requirements for keeping records for a recommendation made in 1987  were 
lighter than they are today and theres no evidence of what was said or recorded to support 
that recommendation. But it seems reasonable that Mr S was aware of the addition  of life 
cover to his pension plan as theres  reference  to it on the application form  which Mr S 
signed  and also reference  to health questions that needed answering within the form. 
So Im satisfied Mr S was aware of the life cover element of the plan and I would have 
expected him to have raised the issue of the cover at that time if he felt it was unwarranted 
or inappropriate.  And Ive also borne in mind  that Mr S did actually receive  the benefit of the 
life cover being in place  while he maintained payments.
As I said previously the recommendation  of the new pension plan doesnt seem  
unreasonable for a number of reasons, but it would also have  allowed Mr S to add the life 
cover to his plan  and receive tax relief  on the premiums, at that time. So, from the 
evidence Ive seen  I dont think that was mis- sold either. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4873174