K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  Mr C payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out in 1999 and 2000. These 
were to cover a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr C has Lloyds told him that taking PPI would improve his chances of getting the finance. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something,  especially when it was such a long time ago. I can see that Mr C signed  
to take the PPI  although I accept  that this doesnt  show that unfair pressure  wasnt put on 
him. I can though also see that Lloyds has supplied copies of letters sent to Mr C after each 
policy was set up, saying that he could cancel the policy if it wasnt  suitable  although again 
that isnt conclusive  evidence he wasnt pressurised at the actual time of sale. Overall 
however, without stronger  evidence, I cant  fairly say Lloyds acted wrongly in the way Mr C 
has said. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C, and this means it had a higher standard  to 
reach during  the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Cs 
particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though  a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs situation  at the time. Its likely 
Mr C was eligible for the policy. And finding  yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can lead 
to significant difficulties. The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same  time as Mr C 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the 
time when he would need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had 
for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr C in a more  
secure position, if hed eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI 
when he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation was suitable. 
Ref: DRN45814812Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr C took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr C would have  been  affected by any of these. And hed be paying for it 
monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without  further cost if his situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4581481