K820x#14complaint
Mr M says MMP Financial Limited, trading  as Swift  Sterling, (MMP), irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  MMP provided to Mr M between 
September 2017 and December 2017. Loan 1 was repayable  by two monthly instalments, 
Loan 2 by five monthly instalments and Loan  3 by four monthly  instalments. Only Loan 1 has 
been repaid. A summary of Mr Ms lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 9/9/17 27/10/17 £200 £244.80
2. 29/11/17 Unpaid £450 Around £160
3. 29/12/17 Unpaid £400 Around £202
our adjudicators view
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He recommended  that 
Mr Ms complaint about Loan 3 be upheld.
 
MMP responded to say that based  on the expenses  information available to it, it appeared 
that Loan 3 was affordable. It said that Mr M would have had around £400 disposable 
income remaining  after allowing for the repayments  on Loans 2 and 3 and Mr Ms declared  
expenses.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to MMP  on 6 August 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  MMP lent to Mr M the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority  
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I explained that MMP needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough  checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But Id said that certain  factors  might  point to the fact that MMP should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN40570452the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Id noted that there may even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id said that MMP was required to establish  whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans 
 not just whether the loan payments  were  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make  their repayments sustainably  if they were  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ms complaint.
MMP did a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income  
and expenses. Mr Ms declared income was £1,500 and his declared expenses  were £700. 
MMP had also checked Mr Ms credit file before agreeing to the loans. It hadnt  provided us 
with the results of its credit checks. I also couldnt  see that Mr M had provided us with his 
credit report.  So I couldnt  say what  the lender might have seen on its credit  checks.
Mr M needed to make  monthly  loan repayments of between  around £160 and £244.80 to 
MMP for Loans 1 and 2. I think  these  were relatively  modest compared to Mr Ms declared 
disposable income. 
Given Mr Ms repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time,  
and his history with the lender, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate  for MMP to ask 
him for the amount of information that would have been needed  to show  Loans  1 and 2 were 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr M had provided before Loans  1 and 2 or the 
information MMP shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think MMP was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to 
Mr M. 
Mr M took out Loan 3 whilst he was still repaying Loan 2. This meant  that hed be repaying  
total monthly loan repayments of around £362  for around three months.  I didnt think at that 
stage of its relationship  with Mr M that MMP  had any reason to doubt the information he 
provided, and I didnt think it was unreasonable for MMP to rely on Mr Ms declared 
Ref: DRN40570453disposable income of £800. But the total monthly loan repayment for Loans 2 and 3 was 
£362, and I thought this was a significant proportion of his disposable income. So I thought 
MMP should  have supplemented the information it held by asking Mr M some more detailed  
questions, such  as whether he was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same 
time.
I explained that I would normally have looked at the borrowers bank statements to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ms bank  
statements for the month before  Loan 3. I noted  that the adjudicator had asked  Mr M for his 
bank statements in April 2019  so he had had ample time to provide these. I couldnt say that 
if MMP had completed sufficient checks,  it would have found  that Mr M couldnt afford to 
repay Loan 3 sustainably.  So I couldnt  say that MMP was wrong to give Loan  3 to Mr M.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or MMP my provisional  decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint. 
MMP responded to my provisional decision  to say that it had no further information to add.
Mr M hasnt  provided a response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Mr M and MMP have given me nothing  further  to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  It follows  that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  16 October 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4057045