K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained that Ageas Retail Limited  unfairly increased  her motor insurance 
premium.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Ms W was involved in minor driving incident  in a parking area. Ageas settled the other  
drivers claim  against her policy. When  it was due for renewal the premium had gone up 
dramatically. Ms W brought her complaint about  that to us. But she didn't renew her policy.  
Our adjudicator didn't think  Ageas had done  anything wrong. Ms W didn't agree so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Ms W also complained about Ageas decision to settle the claim. 
Weve looked  at that under a separate reference number, so I don't intend to comment  on 
that here.
Ive seen that Ms Ws premium went up by over £670 so I can certainly  see why she found 
such a steep price rise concerning. So I've thought very carefully about whether or not 
Ageas has dealt with her fairly. 
I think its important to be clear that were  not the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. So its not my role to say how much  an insurer should charge, what  
factors it should assess, or how much risk to attach  to each of those factors.  Insurance  is 
essentially an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, providing  they treat 
people fairly,  insurers  are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order  to cover a 
risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And each  insurer  will go about  that in its own 
way. So, when deciding  if an insurer  has dealt  with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its 
treated them  the same  as it would other consumers with similar circumstances.
Ageas has shown us some of the information  its used to calculate Ms Ws renewal premium.  
Those details are commercially  sensitive,  so I cant share them  with her. I can understand 
that Ms W might not think thats fair. But insurers wont usually set out how theyve worked  
out a premium to their customers, nor will they share  the statistics  on which theyve  based  
those calculations. Thats because  that information  could give a commercial edge  to their 
competitors. So we dont  expect insurers to make that information publicly available. 
But I've seen that Ageas told Ms W that the main factors causing such  a steep rise in her 
premium were her cars group rating and the claim from the incident  in the parking area.  And 
Ref: DRN42243552its usual for insurers to consider that drivers with recent claims against their polices  are 
higher risks than drivers without such claims.  And its up to Ageas to decide for itself the 
risks that things like a recent claim or type of car present. And if it believes those things 
make its customer  a higher risk it will charge a higher  premium.  Thats  a decision its entitled 
to reach.  As Ive said above,  it's not for me to tell an insurer what  risks it should assess or 
how it should go about those assessments.
I've carefully reviewed  the premium  calculation information that Ageas has shown me. 
Having done so Im satisfied that its treated Ms W the same  as it would for other customers  
with similar  circumstances. And I think  thats fair. So I havent seen anything that indicates 
that Ageas calculated  Ms Ws risk incorrectly or unreasonably. And as Ms W knows  she was 
under no obligation to accept that premium.  
I understand that Ms W will be disappointed  with my decision, especially as its taken  us 
longer than we would like to finish looking at her complaint. But I think Ageas dealt with her 
fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4224355