K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1992. Mr and Mrs V says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs V case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs V didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. Ive 
seen a copy of the mortgage application form. This had a section for PPI. It shows  
Mr and Mrs V would have been  given a choice about whether or not to take PPI. Ive also 
seen a copy of the application form Mr and Mrs V completed specifically for PPI. They  
both signed the application  form. Theres nothing to indicate on any of these documents 
that PPI was compulsory.
 YBS recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs V so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs V about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
 Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs V about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs V has said - including what  theyve  said about their 
existing repayment  provisions. But these  points dont change  my decision. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr and Mrs Vs employee benefits and likely  for a longer period 
of time. The PPI was protecting  a valuable asset and so I think the added  protection was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs V.
Ref: DRN46802562what the YBS needs to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs V any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs V any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs V the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs V 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs V can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs V any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680256