K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 complains  on behalf of his parents  Mr and Mrs M. They are unhappy with the way 
that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  dealt with their home insurance claim for water 
damage to their property.
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Admiral following a leak which  caused  
water damage to their home. A cash settlement was proposed and Admiral sent out a 
surveyor to assess the damage and draw up a priced schedule  of work. After the initial 
inspection the surveyor verbally told Mr and Mrs M that he valued the claim at around  £500. 
But after he drew up the schedule he advised  that the settlement proposed would  be around 
£1,300.
Mr M1, who was involved in the claim from the start, wasnt happy  with this and sent back a 
copy of the estimate  with annotated notes  from his brother-in-law who is a surveyor,  
essentially saying the estimate was too low. Mr M1 was asked to obtain  an estimate from a 
builder set out on headed notepaper. That estimate,  for £4,570  was sent to Admiral in early  
January 2019.  Admiral,  through its claims handling company increased its estimate to 
£2,475, inclusive of VAT and subject to the policy excess of £550.  It offered £50 
compensation for the initial delay in responding to the original quote. 
Mr M1 raised a complaint about the matter directly  with Admiral. After  reviewing the claim 
and the schedule of works, Admiral settled with Mr M1 for £4,250, with the excess  being  
deducted from that. It agreed  that there were shortcomings in its valuation  process  and 
offered further  compensation of £325.  Mr M1 wasnt happy with this and felt it didnt reflect  
the way his parents had been  treated.  He felt that as they were  elderly  they had been taken 
advantage of and may well have accepted  much  lower offers  if he hadnt become involved.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Admiral had acted reasonably  and 
offered fair compensation for any shortcomings in its handling  of the claim.
Mr M1 felt that the compensation  wasnt proportionate as Admiral had made a blatant 
attempt to avoid  paying appropriate costs.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain at the outset that we operate as an alternative dispute resolution service.  
Our role is to resolve complaints informally. And, as our investigator advised, we dont 
punish or fine businesses. What  I would also say is that our awards  of compensation reflect  
what actually happened rather than what might have happened had Mr and Mrs M been 
acting solely  for themselves. I have to bear in mind that Mr M1 was involved with this matter 
from the start and this would have reflected how Admiral dealt with the matter.
costs estimates
When the surveyor first visited the property  he gave a verbal opinion  that repairs  were likely 
to be in the region of £500.  I agree  that an on the spot opinion like that was not helpful  
Ref: DRN42416052especially as it was a severe underestimate.  Admiral has agreed  that. But Mr and Mrs M 
werent required to accept the £500 figure and this was corrected when the schedule was 
drawn up.
I think it was reasonable  to ask Mr M1 to get a second estimate  the first one being just 
annotations on Admirals estimate.  It wanted a full printed estimate  on headed paper. I 
appreciate that this took Mr M1 a while to get. But Admiral did then respond to that estimate 
by its second  offer of £2,475.
The indication from the papers is that the second  estimate was based on the rates Admiral's  
contractor would have  charged. When Admiral reviewed this, with the photos  it decided to 
offer £4,250  which was fairly  close to Mr M1s estimate. I dont know  why it made that offer 
but its likely  that in order to settle  the complaint Admiral decided it was fairer to price  it on 
the basis of Mr M1s builders rates. I think this was a reasonable step to take.  I cant  say 
though that its earlier  estimate  was deliberate undercharging as suggested by Mr M1.
That said I do agree  that from the point of view of estimates the claim wasnt  handled very 
well and would have  caused some anxiety to Mr and Mrs M. I do note that the circumstances 
of the actual claim didnt  affect them too badly. Ill deal with the compensation figure  below.
delay 
There was an initial delay  of a month  in reviewing Mr M1s initial response to Admirals  
estimate. I agree that this was too long and Admiral offered compensation of £50 for this. 
The claims process was then protracted  because of the valuation  process  Ive outlined 
above.
compensation 
Bearing in mind what I said in my opening paragraph of these findings, I think the 
compensation offered was reasonable. I take into account fortunately  that Mr and Mrs M 
werent too badly  affected by the actual water damage.  Admiral  offered a total of £375 which 
I believe it sent by cheque. This takes  into account  postage and telephone calls.  If 
Mr and Mrs M havent paid the cheque in and they want  to accept it they or Mr M1 should 
contact Admiral to see if they can still do so or if a new cheque  or other method of payment 
can be sorted out.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4241605