K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited gave him poor customer 
service on two occasions when his credit  cards were blocked.
background
In 2017 Mr A opened a new credit card account with American Express. On the same day 
that the card was activated, it was blocked, which he only discovered when he tried to use it 
to buy a fridge in a sale. He called American Express about this and he was promised a call 
back, but this didnt  happen. He says he lost the opportunity  to buy the fridge at the 
discounted price.
A few days  later Mr I went on holiday,  and had to pay to use the airport  lounge, which would 
not have been the case  if the card had not been blocked, as the card would have entitled 
him to free use of the lounge. When he returned  home, he found American Express  had sent 
a letter  to his address  asking him to provide  proof of his identity and address.  Instead, he 
cancelled the card.
In August  2018  Mr I opened a second  credit card account with American Express.  Again,  
this card was blocked shortly after he activated it. He had anticipated that and phoned  
American Express to avoid this happening, but that didnt  work. It took several more  phone  
calls to resolve the matter, and this took up a great  deal of his time. Again, the reason  was 
that American Express wanted him to provide a copy of his passport  and a recent utility  bill 
to prove  his identity  and address.
This time, Mr I kept his credit card, but he made  a complaint.  The complaint was not logged  
properly, and so no action was taken, which Mr I only discovered  in November when he 
called American Express  about an unrelated matter. His complaint was then dealt with, and 
American Express apologised for its poor customer service and added 20,000 membership 
points to his card. However it did not accept that it had been wrong to block the cards, as 
this was sometimes a necessary  anti-fraud measure.
Mr I accepted that the blocks had been  justifiable,  but he did not think  that the compensation 
offered was adequate for the waste of his time, the repeated failure to call him back,  and the 
failure to log his complaint in August. He brought this complaint to our Service,  and 
suggested that 750,000 points would be more proportionate.
Our investigator agreed that Mr I had received poor service, but thought  that American 
Express had already done enough  to resolve  this complaint. Mr I did not agree, so he asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that American Express did give Mr I poor service. But I think that the compensation it 
has already given him is in line with what our Service would usually think  is fair. I recognise 
that Mr I wasted considerable time dealing with the matter in 2018, and I note that he says 
his time is normally worth  £90 per hour.  So his request  for 750,000  points was not 
completely arbitrary, but was calculated on a logical  basis. However, our Service  does not 
Ref: DRN49648452generally award compensation by the hour, since  we normally  dont consider loss of time to 
be equivalent to consequential financial loss. Instead, we take into account  the resulting 
distress and inconvenience, and award a (usually modest)  sum for that.
I note that 20,000 points can buy a £100 gift card or (if converted to points for a well-known 
airlines own scheme) a flight  to a choice of a number of European cities. I also take into 
account that Mr I says he also had other cards in 2017 (so I infer he also had another card in 
2018). So I think  that 20,000 points is fair compensation and is in line with what  our Service 
would typically award in circumstances such as these.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.  But if we dont hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4964845