K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund a disputed 
transaction.
He is helped in his complaint by MS L but for ease,  I will refer to all submissions as if made 
by Mr G.
background
Mr G says he lost his wallet containing  his debit card and provisional driving licence, 
amongst other items, sometime during the early  hours of 1st March  2018.
A number  of contactless  payments were  then carried  out using his card  and one online 
order for a computer monitor made later that day.  The computer  monitor  was paid for via 
PayPal and subsequently delivered to Mr Gs home  address.  During March 2018, Mr G was 
residing in student accommodation  away from home.
Having searched  for his lost wallet, and unable to locate it, Mr G contacted  Halifax.   He had 
logged onto his online banking and had seen the suspicious  transactions.
The contactless transactions  were  reimbursed as Halifax  accepted Mr G had not authorised 
them.  In relation to the online transaction, Halifax went back to the merchants bank and 
challenged the payment.   The response  it received showed that the item had bene  delivered 
to Mr Gs family home  so it defended  the chargeback.  Consequently, Halifax  said it was 
holding Mr G liable for this transaction.
When it did not uphold  Mr Gs complaint, he came  to this service  and asked that we look into 
matters for him.
Our investigator thought Halifax had not treated Mr G fairly.  She said as the contactless  
transactions had been refunded, Halifax had accepted that Mr Gs card was not in his 
possession.  She thought  the same logic should  have applied  to the online transaction.
In any event, as a distance contract  was involved, and she didnt think  Mr G had authorised 
the payment,  Halifax could not hold him liable.  She asked  that the money be refunded and 
that Halifax pay £75 for the distress and inconvenience Mr G had suffered.
Mr G accepted the investigators findings  but Halifax  did not.  It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I intend to uphold this complaint for very much  the same reasons as the investigator  has 
already highlighted.
Dealing first of all with Mr Gs account  of events which  led to his card being used by 
fraudsters. Halifax has accepted, by virtue  of the refund  of the contactless  payments, that 
these were not authorised.  It seems to me, therefore, that they accept Mr G to be a credible 
Ref: DRN44790832witness.  So  I find that its decision  to hold him liable  for the online transaction at odds with 
this.
I am pleased  to see that it carried out a chargeback for the transaction.   Its good practice to 
do so.  But  Halifaxs obligations do not end there.  It must consider its obligations under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017   specifically around authorisation.  
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests thats  it more likely than not that Mr G 
authorised this payment, Halifax is entitled to hold him liable.  Its not enough for Halifax to 
show evidence of authentication  it needs  to show Mr G consented to the payments.
Halifax submits  that it would be no use to a fraudster to have an item delivered to Mr Gs 
home address.  I agree  it does seem unusual.  But that piece of evidence  needs to be 
considered amongst the circumstances as a whole.
I take my starting point as the card not being  in Mr Gs possession at the time of the 
transaction.  I say that because the payments surrounding  this transaction have all been  
refunded as unauthorised.
So, I am satisfied that Mr G did not consent  for the following  reasons:
-I am satisfied the card was not in his possession at the time of the transaction;
-there is supporting  evidence in the form of the other disputed transactions  that a 
fraudster had possession on his card;
-if he had in fact ordered  the computer monitor and had changed his mind,  he had the 
option to return  it within a time frame rather than make a claim of fraud;
-the conversation  between  Mr Gs mother and the merchant providing  the monitor 
support the fact that the item was not ordered nor wanted by Mr G;
-the loss of Mr Gs driving licence  provided the fraudster  with his home address  
something which Halifax has not taken into account in its submissions  to us;
Finally, as I am satisfied  that the payment  was not authorised, and that the transaction 
involved a distance  contract, under the relevant rules, Halifax cannot  hold Mr G liable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, should:
-refund  the value  of the payment of £149.99 to Mr G;
-pay 8% statutory interest from the date the transaction  was made  up to the date of 
the refund;
-pay Mr G £150  for the distress  and inconvenience and poor service  he has received 
in bringing this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ref: DRN44790833ombudsman
Ref: DRN4479083