K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the compensation for mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies taken  out alongside  some  loans she had with Marks & Spencer  Financial 
Services Plc (M&S)
background
In 2018 Mrs L complained  through a third party that she had been mis-sold PPI with a 
number of loans  taken out with M&S.  M&S wrote two letters to the third party with the same 
date. One saying the compensation for the mis-sold  PPI had already been addressed  and 
paid to Mrs L; the other saying her complaint was upheld and offering compensation.
Mrs L says she didnt  receive the compensation offered in the letter and after some  
correspondence with M&S brought her complaint to this service.
M&S said it had already  paid the compensation due to Mrs L some years before and the 
letter sent in 2018 offering compensation was sent in error.  So as Mrs L has already had the 
compensation nothing more is due to be paid.
Our adjudicator said what M&S had said was correct  and nothing further was due to Mrs L. 
Mrs L doesnt agree as she thinks she should  be paid the compensation offered by M&S in 
its letter of 2018.
So the matter  has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2012 M&S upheld Mrs Ls complaint, made through  a third party, that PPI was mis-
sold with two loans  she had taken out. It seems there was a delay in Mrs L returning the 
acceptance and the compensation wasnt actually paid until 2014. The amount of 
compensation was £4,076.00.
In 2015 Mrs L complained  again  about the mis-sold PPI and on 28 May 2015 M&S  wrote to 
Mrs L to say there was some further compensation due for one of the loans as the amount 
carried forward for the PPI from one loan to another hadnt been included  in her original  
compensation. So an additional amount of £847.34 was sent to Mrs L in 2015. Mrs L agrees 
she received these compensation payments in 2014 and 2015.
In 2018 Mrs L, again  represented  by a third party,  complained to M&S she had been mis-
sold PPI with her loans. M&S sent two letters,  both dated 23 July 2018.  One said M&S were 
upholding her complaint  and offering  £5,564.31 in compensation. The other said her 
complaints about  mis-sold PPI had already  been settled and compensation paid in 2015.
M&S has accepted  it made a mistake  in sending the letter offering the compensation and 
this should not have  been issued as the compensation  had already been  offered and paid. It 
has apologised for this error. It confirmed Mrs L had already been paid everything she was 
due as compensation for the mis-sold  PPI.
Ref: DRN40891392Mrs L says when she first contacted M&S  about  the offer in 2018  it denied the offer letter 
had been sent. It has later explained  that this letter was not attached to the file as issued in 
2018 and so it wasnt at first realised it had been sent.
Mrs L has said she doesnt dispute she did receive the compensation payments in 2014 and 
2015. But she still feels M&S should  honour  the offer made  in its letter  sent in error in 2018. 
She says as the figures werent the same  as those paid in 2014 and 2015,  she didnt realise 
when the letter was passed to her by her representatives that it related to the same 
compensation. 
It has been explained to Mrs L the difference in the amounts was due to the calculation of 
extra 8% simple interest as this is worked  out to the date of offer in 2018.  As the offer letter 
in 2018 was some three years later additional  compensatory interest had been  included and 
included in the total compensation, so the figure was higher  in 2018 than in 2014.
From all the information provided I am satisfied that Mrs L has received  all the compensation 
she was due for the mis-sold PPI to put her in the positon as if she had never  taken out the 
policies. This was finalised in 2015.
M&S did make a mistake  in sending out the offer letter in 2018.  But on the same date it also 
sent a letter  saying that there was no further  compensation due as the matter had been dealt 
with in 2015. The receipt of these two letters at the same or similar time should have raised 
concern that something was wrong.
 Also Mrs L knew she had already  received compensation  for the mis-sold PPI with her loans  
and it is unclear why a new complaint  was raised  by a third party in 2018.
Whilst it is regrettable that the offer letter was sent out in error, M&S  has apologised for this 
and there  is no doubt that Mrs L has already received the compensation she is due.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to expect M&S to pay the compensation again, as what is has 
already paid is fair to refund the costs  of the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above Im satisfied  that Marks & Spencer Financial Services  
Plc has paid fair compensation to Mrs L for the mis-sold PPI and Im not telling it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089139