K821x#15complaint
Mr Y has complained that Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltds  error led to the premium  for his 
motorbike insurance  policy  being incorrectly increased. 
background
Mr Y got a quote  with Be Wiser through a comparison website. After speaking to one of its 
advisors he was told the premium would increase as he hadnt declared  motoring  offences  
and the licence date was wrong. Mr Y cancelled  the policy and got a refund. Shortly 
afterwards he got another  quote with Be Wiser  through the comparison website. Be Wisers 
advisor again told Mr Y that his licence date was wrong, and the premium would be 
increased. Mr Y sent a screenshot  to show that hed input the correct date but Be Wiser said 
it was only a partial screenshot so couldnt rely on it. As Be Wiser didnt believe Mr Y had 
input the correct date he decided to cancel his policy again. 
Mr Y was unhappy with this as he said hed put in the correct date and complained. He also 
asked Be Wiser to provide copies of the calls so he could  listen  back to what had been  said.  
Be Wiser provided some  calls but said it couldnt  locate all of them. However,  it accepted its 
advisor had made an error and said it should  have honoured the second  quote. It said it 
would provide feedback  to the advisor  and offered Mr Y £20 in gift vouchers to compensate 
him.
Mr Y remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  thought               
Be Wisers  error had caused  Mr Y a financial loss. So, he said Be Wiser should  pay Mr Y the 
difference between  the quote it had given him and what hed paid for his new policy,  plus 
interest. He also thought  Be Wiser  should pay Mr Y £100 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused him in not identifying that hed input the correct date. 
Neither Mr Y nor Be Wiser  agreed. Mr Y said £100 wasnt  enough to compensate him for    
Be Wiser not being  able to locate all of the calls and the effort  hed gone to in order to put 
things right. Be Wiser thought the vouchers  were enough compensation 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Be Wiser accepted it made an error  and should  have honoured the second quote  it gave    
Mr Y. So, I only need to consider what it needs  to do to put things right. As Be Wiser didnt 
honour the quote Mr Y had to spend  more than he would have done on a different policy. So, 
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome here is for Be Wiser to pay Mr Y the difference  
between what he paid for his new policy and the quote it should have honoured. As Mr Ys 
been without money  he should have had Be Wiser should add interest to that amount at 8% 
simple per year from the date he bought  his new policy to the date it makes payment.  
I understand Mr Y feels its important  to listen to all the calls that took place but Be Wiser is 
only able to locate  two recordings.  Mr Y has provided a recording to show  a third call did 
take place. I can hear from the calls how frustrating Mr Y found what had happened. And I 
can understand his strength of feeling,  given that he did input the correct date and also 
provided a screenshot to show this. However, I agree with our investigator that £100 is a fair 
Ref: DRN46372142and reasonable amount of compensation for Be Wiser to pay Mr Y to compensate  him for 
the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience it caused him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Be Wiser Insurance  Services Ltd 
to pay Mr Y:
The difference between the quote  it should  have honoured and the amount he paid 
for his new policy;
Interest on that amount  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date he paid for the 
new policy to the date it makes payment1;
£100 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Be Wiser  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr Y how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr Y a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4637214