K821x#15complaint
Mrs K has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unfairly cancelled her car 
insurance policy. Mrs Ks husband,  Mr K is representing her in her complaint. 
background
Mrs Ks husband Mr K bought a car insurance policy with Admiral online in February 2019. 
His wife was listed as the main  driver  and he was a named driver. Mr K paid for the policy on 
his credit card. The contact email address provided  was Mr Ks. He said Mrs K doesnt have 
an email account so they share his.
Admiral wrote to Mrs K and said it had concerns that the policy  had been set up by a ghost 
broker. It said it doesnt authorise the use of brokers to assist in buying its policies. So it 
asked Mrs K to contact it to discuss its concerns within  the next seven days,  or it would 
cancel her policy. 
Mr K on behalf of his wife called Admiral. He told it he wasnt  a broker  but there were  several 
cars at his address where he and wife live with family and friends. English isnt their first 
language and the computer at the home address  and Mr Ks email address - is used by the 
people who live there. He said that hes occasionally helped  friends  who live at a different 
address. But Mr K said he hasnt been  paid to help them  and hes checked the information is 
correct. 
Admiral wasnt  satisfied  with Mr Ks explanation. So it cancelled Mrs Ks policy. Mr K asked 
Admiral to allow Mrs K to cancel the policy as it was within the cooling off period  but 
Admiral refused. It told Mrs K that she would need to declare  the cancellation to future 
insurers. 
Mr K on behalf of Mrs K brought her complaint to us. She wants Admiral to remove any 
cancellation marker its recorded  against  her. 
Our investigator asked  Admiral to show that Mrs K had misrepresented  any of the 
information provided when she bought the policy. Admiral said it didnt have  any evidence of 
this. 
The investigator recommended  Mrs Ks complaint  should be upheld. She looked at the 
reasons Admiral listed in the policy for cancellation  and found  that the one it appeared to be 
relying on was misrepresentation. But as Admiral couldnt provide any evidence of 
misrepresentation, she thought Admiral had unreasonably  cancelled  Mrs Ks policy.  
So the investigator thought Admiral should do the following:
provide Mrs K with a letter  to say that the cancellation was its mistake so that she 
may pass it to her subsequent motor insurers in order  that they can recalculate  any 
premium(s) affected by the cancellation. 
If the motor insurers involved refuse  to recalculate a premium,  on receipt of 
appropriate evidence,  Admiral should refund Mrs K any additional premium shes 
paid as a result  of the cancellation, together with 8% simple interest from the date 
she was charged the premium to the date it refunds her.
Admiral should also remove  the voidance from internal and external databases and
write to Mrs K to confirm it has done so.
Ref: DRN45410912Admiral should pay Mrs K £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
her by having her policy cancelled in this way.
Admiral didnt agree. It said that although  it cant evidence any misrepresentation in this 
case, its taken this stance to ensure  policyholders provide correct information  to it. It said 
Admiral hasnt added any fraud markers against  Mrs Ks name and that it may be open to 
providing Mrs K with insurance  in the future if its certain that the policy  has been applied for 
legitimately and directly by her. It provided a list of quotes obtained under Mr Ks email 
address for different  people. Some of these are for a different address  to Mr and Mrs Ks 
home address. 
Mr K gave the investigator details of his relationship for each of the quotes Admiral  listed. 
Our investigator has forwarded this to Admiral.
Admiral wants  an ombudsman  to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
We look at each case on its own merits. In this case Mr K  as the husband of Mrs K  has 
applied for the policy and used his email address and card details to pay for it. This isnt 
unusual. He was listed as a named driver under the policy. Mr K says he can provide proof 
of address for him and his wife. Mr K says he didnt provide any inaccurate information or 
misrepresent the facts  when applying for his policy. 
Admiral can cancel Mrs Ks policy in certain circumstances. It needs to be clear  in its policy  
as to what those  circumstances are. Admirals policy says:
"Our cancellation rights
We can cancel your policy at any time by sending 7 days notice in writing  to
your last known address  if you:
break any of the General Conditions of your cover
ignore or fail to comply  with General  Exceptions 1, 8 and 9
fail to respond to written  requests  for further  information or
documentation
harass or use abusive or threatening behaviour towards our staff
behave in a manner that makes it inappropriate for us to continue your
insurance
fail to pay the premium  due for your policy  (we will give you 14 days
notice in writing if we intend cancelling due to non payment of your
monthly instalments,  in order  to give you time to resolve the matter)
If you or anyone acting for you makes or supports a fraudulent claim against
us or deliberately or recklessly provides  us with false information when taking
out the policy, making changes to it or at renewal that would either  impact  the
terms and conditions or our ability to offer cover itself your policy and all
other policies to which you are connected through EUI Limited  will be
cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover any costs we have incurred and
will not return any premium. For further  information see General Condition  9."
Ref: DRN45410913In response to Mrs Ks complaint, Admiral  said that it had concerns that her policy had been 
set up fraudulently. It said that it had concerns that the device used to purchase her policy  
was used by a broker. Admiral doesnt authorise  brokers to set up policies on behalf of 
customers. However, it also said the following:
When you contacted us for a quotation we asked several questions  in relation to 
these details. We then recorded the answers  given and sent you a copy  of this 
Information. We asked  you to check this and tell us if any of the details were wrong. 
You did not make us aware of any changes and we continued your Insurance  based  
on your answers remaining the same.
As we have no other way of assessing  the risk you asked us to undertake, we relied 
on your answers to these  questions. It is important we hold accurate details, as any 
misrepresentation of Information can result in us cancelling  or voiding your policy.
We asked Admiral to provide evidence of misrepresentation   or that Mrs K had provided  
incorrect information. But it wasnt able to provide any. The email  address provided belongs  
to Mr K  a named driver and husband to Mrs K. I dont think  Admiral  has provided sufficient 
evidence to support  its concerns that Mrs Ks policy was set up by a ghost broker   or that 
Mr K provided inaccurate information putting Mrs K at risk of having a claim or policy  voided  
due to misrepresentation. 
So in this case, I dont think Admiral acted  reasonably when it cancelled  Mrs Ks policy for 
the reasons it did. I think it should put Mrs K back in the position  she would have been had it 
not cancelled  her policy. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  recommendations  which  Ive set out below as Im 
upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN45410914my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
provide Mrs K with a letter  to say that it cancelled her policy in error - so that she can 
pass it to her subsequent  motor insurers in order that they can recalculate any 
premium(s) affected by the cancellation. 
If the motor insurers involved refuse  to recalculate a premium,  on receipt of 
appropriate evidence,  Admiral should refund Mrs K any additional premium shes 
paid as a result  of the cancellation, together with 8% simple interest from the date 
she was charged the premium to the date it refunds her.
If it has registered the voidance, Admiral  should  ensure such a record is removed 
from internal and external databases and write  to Mrs K to confirm  this. 
Admiral should pay Mrs K £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
her by having her policy cancelled in this way.
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs K how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mrs K a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541091