K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) packaged  bank account to them in September  2011.  
They have said that they thought they did not need  the benefits that the account came with 
but they thought they had to have the account in order to get a preferential  rate on a loan.
background
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint already and they did not think  that this account 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs W did not agree with this and therefore they asked that their 
complaint be put forward for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr and Mrs W or that it has treated them  unfairly.  Id like to explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr and Mrs W were given a clear  choice in taking this 
account. At this point,  it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened,  having weighed up what  
both parties have been able to provide me with.
Mr and Mrs W had held fee free accounts with BOS before so I think  that they would have 
been aware that free accounts were available and were  an option for them. Mr and Mrs W 
have said that they thought that they had to take out the account  to get a better rate on a 
personal loan.  But they did not take out a loan at the time of the sale and BOS  has 
confirmed that the only loan that Mr and Mrs W had around this time was taken in 2010 so I 
dont think that this loan couldve been  the reason they agreed to the account. Overall then 
based on the available evidence, I think it is more  likely that Mr and Mrs W agreed to the 
account because  of the benefits that it came with.
I can see that Mr and Mrs W obtained  an overdraft  when  they took out the URCA. At this 
time BOS was charging its free current account  holders a £1 a day overdraft usage fee to 
use the first £300 of their overdraft with tiered fees above this. Whereas URCA account 
holders didnt need to pay this fee as long as they kept within the first £300  of their overdraft 
facility. Given that Mr and Mrs W frequently used  their overdraft facility I think  that this may 
have been a benefit that could have interested  them.
Ref: DRN48875442BOS says it didnt recommend the URCA.  And I havent seen  anything  here to suggest      
Mr and Mrs Ws needs were assessed  before the URCA  was sold,  which is what shouldve  
happened if the account was recommended.  So overall I dont  think  that BOS did 
recommend the URCA to Mr and Mrs W. This means it didnt have to check  if the URCA was 
right for them. It was up to Mr and Mrs W to do this. But BOS did have to give them clear 
enough information to do so. I think its likely Mr and Mrs W were provided with information 
on the main benefits  included  on the URCA.  After all BOS  was trying to get them to pay for it 
when they in all likelihood  knew they didnt have  to. 
When the URCA was taken out it came with, amongst other things, breakdown  cover, travel 
insurance and mobile phone  insurance.  I note Mr and Mrs W have said they had their own 
breakdown cover but I cant see why they could  not have used the cover that came with the 
account had they wished  to do so. While Mr and Mrs W say they did not travel  or have a 
mobile phone the URCA was the only account  that BOS offered so I if they wanted the 
breakdown cover and the overdraft benefit  then this was the only account they could  really  
have.
I accept that Mr and Mrs W may not have  been  told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with, but I cant see anything specific that they were not told that I think  
wouldve altered  their decision to take out the account.
Overall I can understand that with hindsight Mr and Mrs W may not think  that this account 
was value for money and that they may not have used it as much as they thought they were  
going to when they first took it out. But I think that they took it out knowing  that they did not 
have to and having been given a fair idea of what the account came with. Given this, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold  the account or that it owes Mr and Mrs W any money.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4887544