K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about the amount that shes been  charged by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited for damage to a car that had been supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss B under a hire purchase agreement with BMW  Financial 
Services that she signed in July 2015. She voluntarily  terminated the agreement and the car 
was collected  from her by a third party on behalf  of BMW Financial Services in June 2018. 
An inspection report was prepared  which identified  that the left front door was dented  and 
that all four alloy wheels  were scratched   and it recommended charges totalling £318  for 
that damage. BMW  Financial Services charged  that amount to Miss B but she complained  
about the charges. It agreed  to reduce the charge for the dented door to £31.33 but she 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He couldnt  see 
that the door was dented  so he thought that BMW Financial Services should  remove the 
charge for it. But he thought that it was fair for it to charge for the damage to the alloy 
wheels. So he recommended that the damage  charges  should  be reduced to £204.
BMW Financial Services has accepted the adjudicators recommendation but Miss B has 
asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in summary, that:
having to call BMW  Financial Services about  the payment and the possible 
consequences has caused her distress  and inconvenience;
she shouldve been given an opportunity to have the car independently  
inspected and repaired;
its not fair for her to be charged for work  that wasnt  done; and
she hasnt received a refund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B signed the hire purchase agreement in July 2015. Immediately above her signature  it 
says:
Important: Before you sign, ensure you have read: the information on page 1; 
the information on this page 2; Use of Your  Information and the Terms  and 
Conditions starting  on the following page. 
And under her signature it said:
This is a Hire-Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to b e legally  bound by its terms.
Ref: DRN48649612On page 1 of the agreement, under  the heading  Other Charges it said:
If you return  the Vehicle  not in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear 
and tear)  [we will charge] our reasonable estimate  of the resulting reduction in 
the Vehicles value; or if we decide  at our discretion to carry out any repair  and/or 
replacement  the cost of such repair and/or replacement and our estimate  of 
any remaining loss in value.
Miss B requested a quote to voluntarily terminate the agreement and BMW Financial 
Services sent her a quote in May 2018. The quote said:
When you give us written notice to terminate  your agreement we will contact you 
to make arrangements for collection.  You must continue to insure the vehicle and 
keep it in good repair in accordance with your agreement until it is collected. If the 
vehicle is not in good repair when  it is returned, or if you have exceeded  the pro-
rated contractual mileage,  then damage  and excess mileage  charges may apply.
Miss B went ahead with the voluntary termination  and the car was inspected and collected 
from her in June 2018 by a third party on behalf of BMW Financial Services. The inspection  
report identified that the cars left front door was dented and that all four alloy wheels were 
scratched. The report  included photos of the damage.  
BMW Financial Services has accepted the adjudicators recommendation that it shouldnt  
charge Miss B for the dented door.  But I consider it to be clear from the photos in the report 
that all four wheels are damaged and that the damage is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  guidelines on fair wear and tear. 
BMW Financial Services has charged  Miss B £51 for the estimated refurbishment cost of 
each of the wheels. I consider that Miss B had accepted in the agreement  that it could 
charge her for its reasonable estimate  of the reduction in the cars value because of any 
damage thats not fair wear  and tear. And I find that its reasonable for it to charge her £204  
for the damage  to the cars wheels. 
Miss B wouldve known  or ought reasonably to have  known  from the agreement and the 
termination quote that she was responsible  for any damage that wasnt  fair wear and tear. 
And she couldve had the car inspected and repaired before it was collected from her. She 
didnt do so and once the collection  had been  arranged I dont consider that there  was any 
requirement for BMW Financial Services to allow Miss B to have the car independently 
inspected and repaired.
Although BMW Financial Services has accepted the adjudicators recommendation that it 
shouldnt charge Miss B for the dented door, Im not persuaded that its acted incorrectly  in 
its dealings with Miss B about the return of the car. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay any compensation to Miss B for the distress  and 
inconvenience that she says shes been  caused.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial Services  
to reduce the total amount that its charged Miss B for damage to the car to £204. But Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any other  action in 
response to Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN48649613my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part. And I order BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to reduce the amount that its charged Miss B for the 
damage to the car to £204.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4864961