K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background 
This complaint is about five instalment loans that Lending Stream provided to Mr H between  
September 2012 and March 2013. The first two loans were repaid early   but Mr H hasnt yet 
paid the other loans  so far as I am aware.
Heres a table setting out details of these loans:  
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest Monthly
Repayment
1 17/09/2012 08/12/2012 6 £185.00 £92.50
2 06/10/2012 10/12/2012 6 £215.00 £188.90
3 25/12/2012 outstanding 6 £685.00 £342.50
4 25/02/2013 outstanding 5 £105.00 £332.90
5 04/03/2013 outstanding 6 £245.00 £440.55
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint  and thought the loans werent unfairly  lent. 
Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  
Before lending to Mr H, Lending Stream asked Mr H for information  on his financial  situation, 
such as his monthly income  and his outgoings,  including other creditor repayments,  and it 
carried out credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about  whether it was fair for Lending Stream  to 
lend to Mr H.
When Mr H took out his first loan I think Lending Stream  was entitled to rely on the 
information Mr H provided. This suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing 
looking at what hed told Lending Stream about his monthly income and his expenses. 
Ref: DRN42211612When Mr H took out loan 2 his outgoings had increased slightly  but his monthly income had 
also gone up a little. And Ive taken into account that he was still paying  for loan 1.
Looking at the information he provided  to Lending  Stream, and the information Lending 
Stream had gathered about  his financial situation, it still looks to me like combined monthly 
repayments Mr H had to make on loans 1 and 2 shouldve been easily affordable  for him. 
When Mr H asked for loan 3 hed only recently  paid loans 1 and 2. And he was now taking 
out a much bigger loan  more than three times  the amount hed borrowed when taking  out 
loan 2. 
I think Lending Stream shouldve  been  alerted to the possibility that it was no longer 
reasonable to base  its lending decision on the information Mr H was providing. I think it 
would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to have taken steps to independently 
check the true state of Mr Hs finances when  he asked for loan 3  and from now on. 
However, I havent seen  anything  in the information  available to me which  shows  Lending  
Stream would have  decided  not to agree this loan had it done proportionate  checks.  And the 
repayments on this loan still looked  affordable for Mr H based on all the information  he 
provided to Lending Stream and the other  information it had gathered. So I cant fairly say 
that Lending Stream was wrong to provide loan 3 to Mr H.
And Ive seen nothing, and havent  been provided with any information, to suggest that 
further checks to verify what  Mr H was saying  wouldve shown that providing loans 4 and 5 
to him was unfair.  Although he was still paying  for loan 3 when he took out loan 4, and he 
hadnt repaid either of these loans  when he took out loan 5, he hadnt given any indication at 
that stage that he would find it difficult to make the contractual monthly  repayments.  And on 
the face of things, the combined  monthly  repayments looked like they should be affordable.  
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to safely say a lender did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Lending Stream did 
anything wrong  in deciding to lend to Mr H. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H but I hope my 
explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
I take this opportunity to remind Lending  Stream (or any third party  if the debt has been  sold 
on) that it should discuss payment options with Mr H and treat him fairly and sympathetically 
if Mr H needs further  time to pay what he still owes. And if Mr H would  like help to manage 
his finances theres  more  information about  how to get free debt advice on our website  or 
we can provide contact  details  if he gives  us a call. 
Ref: DRN42211613my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4221161