K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (Alliance) introduced  and applied  a 
supplementary charge (SC) to his account  in 2017  without prior notice to him. The charge 
(£450, including VAT) was applied to his account  after a stock  purchase he made in 
June 2018. He wants Alliance to refund the SC deducted from his account  and to re-register 
the stock in CREST.
background
Mr Hs complaint was initially presented to Alliance, but it did not uphold it. As a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to re-register the stock in CREST and to waive the related fee of £100. 
However, its position on the matter of the SC is that:
Notice (and information) was sent to Mr H in May 2017 about the introduction and 
application of the SC for specified  circumstances  including  for non-standard  
investments. The information explained  that non-standard investments are those that 
are not settled in Sterling through CREST.  Mr Hs purchase related to such  an 
investment, hence the application of the SC.
In addition, information about  the SC was accessible through its website and, at the 
point of purchase, Mr H was given notice that the transaction could attract a foreign 
bargain charge , which was enough to let him know it was a non-standard investment.
It reviewed  its service  and concluded that the cost of supporting the extra work and 
risks in accounts for non-standard investments had increased significantly, hence  the 
introduction of the SC.
The matter  was referred to this service and one of our adjudicators  considered it. She 
concluded that the complaint should  be upheld. She acknowledged  that, with a valid reason, 
Alliance had discretion  to change its charges but it was also required to give customers  
30 days prior notice  if the change is to their disadvantage  during which they would be 
able to close their account(s). She concluded  that there is not enough  evidence  to show  that 
such notice was sent to Mr H. She said the SC should be refunded to Mr H and she 
endorsed Alliances offer to re-register the stock in CREST without  the £100 charge  as a 
way to compensate  him for the trouble and upset that the matter has caused him.
Alliance said the notice had been sent in May 2017  by a third party  printing firm, based on a 
mailing list issued  to that firm by its marketing department. It provided a copy  of a template 
notice letter (about the changes, including the introduction of the SC)  without Mr Hs name  
or address on it  and a spreadsheet which it said was the mailing  list sent by its marketing 
department to the printing  firm. The adjudicator noted that the spreadsheet is undated and 
does not refer to the notice/update letter or to any other documents being  issued. She 
retained her conclusion that there  is not enough evidence to show that notice was sent to 
Mr H. Alliance disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator noted, Alliance had discretion to change its charges for valid reasons, so 
long as 30 days prior notice was given to its customers  and they had the option to close  their 
accounts during  such notice  period.  This, in a nutshell, is what  is provided for in the relevant 
Ref: DRN40535322section of Alliances  terms and conditions document. The copy  of the template notice it has 
provided also reflects this, to the extent  that it says transfer out fees were to be waived for 
those who chose to close their accounts during the notice period.
Mr H recently  asked  us to bear in mind his wider arguments about  the basis  for the 
application of the SC and about whether  information  about it was sufficiently clear. I have 
noted this reminder,  however I consider that the primary issue  is whether  (or not) notice of 
the SC was sent to him. If I conclude, on balance, that it was the wider arguments can be 
addressed but if I conclude the opposite the implications would be that Alliance  has not 
complied with its terms and conditions and that the SC cannot reasonably be applied  to Mr H 
 the wider arguments become somewhat redundant.
It is worth noting that I have previously determined a complaint against Alliance based on its 
introduction of the same SC and relating to the same dispute about lack of notice. The 
allegations/arguments in that complaint  were  somewhat wider than in Mr Hs but the matter  
of lack of notice is common to both complaints.  In the previous complaint, Alliance had not 
used a third party to send its notice. The notice  was sent directly from Alliance by email  and 
it made available to us screenshot  evidence  of the email being sent to the complainant on a 
specific date and at a specific time. I considered  this sufficient, on balance, to conclude that 
notice was sent to the complainant  I then proceeded to address the other 
allegations/arguments in the complaint.
In contrast, I consider  that in Mr Hs complaint there  is not enough  evidence  to conclude  that 
notice was sent to him. The template notice letter is no more  than that  a template  and I 
have not seen additional or supporting evidence to show that it is more likely  (than  not) that 
a notice letter was sent to Mr H based on that template.  The same applies to the 
spreadsheet that Alliance recently  sent the adjudicator. It appears  to be no more than a 
spreadsheet with an entry  in which Mr Hs name and address is stated.  However, there is 
nothing within it that shows it was sent by Alliances marketing department to the third party 
printing firm (which does not appear to have  been  identified) at the time that Alliance says it 
was so sent. In addition,  and as the adjudicator  said, the spreadsheet is undated and does 
not refer to any notice  letter or documentation that the mailing list relates to. Even if it is 
accepted that the spreadsheet is a mailing list from Alliance to the third party printing firm, it 
remains arguable  that it could  be a mailing  list about  anything that was sent at any time.
I have considered whether (or not) Mr H could or ought reasonably to have gained 
awareness of the SC at the time of the stock purchase.  He sent us a screen  shot of the 
purchase and no notice of the SC is stated  within it. The same applies to the contract note 
that arose from the purchase  a copy of which we have also been  sent.  I am satisfied that 
no such awareness occurred and I am not persuaded by Alliances argument that he could 
have found information about  the SC for non-standard investments on its website.  The 
adjudicator addressed this point competently in her view, where she noted that a customer  
using the website would have needed to select Sitemap, then select Literature, then 
select the terms and conditions document, then find page 5 of the document  for the Rate  
Card and then select a link within the Rate Card in order to find the definition of a non-
standard investment. This was not a reasonable substitute for the notice letter. A customer 
would have needed to know what to look for and, arguably, how to look for it in order to 
reach the information in the Rate Card.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Alliance does not appear  to have sent notice to Mr H 
about the introduction of the SC, it does not appear  to have complied with its terms and 
conditions in this respect  and it was not fair or reasonable for the SC to have been applied to 
Ref: DRN40535323Mr Hs account. Alliance  must refund the SC (£450) to Mr H. It must also re-register  the 
relevant stock purchased by Mr H in CREST  free of charge as it has offered  to do, Mr H is 
entitled to the waiver  of the £100 fee as compensation for the trouble of upset the matter has 
caused him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order Alliance Trust Savings 
Limited to pay him £450 as a refund of the SC applied  to his account  and to re-register  the 
stock he purchased in CREST free of charge. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4053532