K820x#14Complaint
Mr T has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy with the 
valuation it has placed on his car following a claim on his motor insurance policy.  
Background
Mr T made a claim  on his motor insurance  policy he held with Admiral after he was involved 
in a road traffic accident in March 2019. Mr T says he was told his car was a total loss. 
Admiral offered Mr T £24,450. But Mr T remained unhappy with this offer. 
Mr T has also said that prior to the road traffic  accident hed had a new engine fitted which  
cost £13,000. He says Admiral should have taken this into account when it made its offer as 
this would have  reset the mileage on his car. 
Overall Mr T is unhappy with the settlement figure Admiral has offered. He says he couldnt 
buy another car of the same make, model age and condition for £24,450.  And he has seen  
similar cars advertised between £29,000 and £36,000. He says the dealership  offered him 
£30,000 to buy his car just before the accident.  
Admiral has said it checked with the motor trade guides to establish a fair market  value. 
Having done so it offered Mr T the highest valuation. It also said the money Mr T had 
invested in the car doesnt always increase the market  value.  
Mr T remained unhappy so he brought the complaint  to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ts complaint but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. To summarise  she said 
Admiral had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and while  Mr T 
had fitted a new engine she couldnt see that the engine would  increase the market value. 
She said this because while it would improve the running of the car the car itself had still 
done the increased amount of miles.  
Mr T didnt  agree. He says he fitted  his new engine due to mechanical failure. So it was 
classed as maintenance not modifications.  He has also said that due to the specification  of 
the vehicle the trade guides wouldnt  be accurate in providing a market value. As Mr T didnt 
agree the case  was passed to me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Its not our role to decide an evaluation.  It is our role to consider whether an insurer  has 
reached an evaluation in a reasonable way. And in doing so we pay particular attention to 
the various trade guides used for valuing cars. We think these guides let us see a fair value 
of a car as they are based on actual sales prices rather than advertised prices,  which  are 
usually inflated  for negotiation purposes. The value they give is an average and takes into 
account cars selling  at higher and lower prices. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ts policy  documents. Under  section 2 what we will pay it says how 
Admiral will settle a claim. If it decides  to give a cash settlement  it says:
Ref: DRN49178272If we give you a cash sum, the most  we will pay is the market value of the car or items  
claimed for.
It goes on to define market value as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make,  model, year, mileage  and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market in which  
you would  normally shop  for your car e.g retail  value, will not apply if you buy your car 
privately or at an auction.
So while I appreciate that Mr T has seen  cars advertised between £29,000 and £36,000,  his 
policy documents say how Admiral  will arrive at a settlement figure. It clearly says the retail 
value will not apply.  So with that in mind  I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr T should 
have been reasonably aware of how Admiral  would settle a claim.
Admiral used three of the main motor  trade  guides  to decide a fair valuation for Mr Ts car 
after it was deemed  a total loss. As I mentioned above, our service deems this approach to 
be fair as the trade guides allows us to input specific information  to get a valuation  at the 
time of the accident. Mr T has made the point that his car is a sports car and so the motor  
trade guides may not be a good point of reference.  But the motor trade guides provide 
valuations for most cars available on the market. They produce an average  based on actual 
dealership forecourt prices available to consumers. And so I think it is fair for Admiral  to rely 
upon them  in these circumstances.
The valuations provided from the trade guides ranged between  £20,444  and £24,450. And 
as our investigator had stated, our service checked  the valuation  by a fourth motor  trade  
guide which valued the car at £21,124. The trade  guides are by their very nature an average. 
And Admiral has offered the highest  valuation offered by the trade guides. With that in mind  I 
cant say it has acted  unreasonably or unfairly.
I have considered the point Mr T has raised in relation to him fitting a new engine.  And while 
I understand the point Mr T has made, I dont think it would  make  a difference. I say this 
because as Mr T has already said, a new engine had to be fitted due to a mechanical failure 
and so this wasnt  a modification which  would  have enhanced the cars performance. And 
while the engine  was new the car itself had still completed a higher mileage.  
So overall, I am satisfied  Admiral has acted in line with the terms of Mr Ts policy  and has 
reached a fair and reasonable  valuation. So I wont be asking it to anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4917827