K820x#14Complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited not being  of satisfactory  quality.
Background
Mr B entered into a HPA with Black  Horse in July 2017  to acquire a used car. He 
experienced issues with the car and had to take it back  for repair on several occasions. 
He said that Black  Horse  upheld his complaint in regard to the first issue  he experienced 
but not the others. He said the car now needs  further repairs  and he thinks the issues it 
has experienced are all linked. 
Mr B said he thought the independent inspection report was inconclusive.  He wants to 
either be allowed  to reject the car or have the cost of the repairs paid for. 
Black  Horse said that it upheld Mr Bs complaint in regard  to the repair  to the head 
gasket as this took place shortly after the car was acquired.  It noted that Mr B hadnt  
incurred costs for the repair  and it offered a payment of £100  for any trouble and upset 
this had caused. It said that there  wasnt evidence  that the subsequent issues  were due 
to issues that were present from the point of supply.
Mr B didnt  agree with Black Horses response and brought  his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr B doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reason for it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for the following reasons:
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or contradictory,  I have  made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  Black  Horse can be held liable if the car 
provided to Mr B wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory 
quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account all the circumstances. In this 
case the car was four years old and had been  driven around 26,600 miles at the 
point of acquisition.  The car had passed  an MOT on 29 June 2017 suggesting it was 
roadworthy at the point of supply. 
Repairs were needed in November 2017,  around  four months after acquisition.  The 
head gasket needed  to be replaced. At this point Mr B had been able to drive the car 
less than 5,000 miles. Given the repairs were needed within  the first six months  and 
also noting the nature of the repairs, I find it reasonable  that Black  Horse upheld 
Ref: DRN43340852Mr Bs complaint in regard  to these repairs. The repairs were undertaken at no cost 
to Mr B and Black  Horse  offered to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset he had 
been caused. I find this reasonable.
The next repairs took place after Mr B had been able to drive  the car around  10,000  
miles. At this point the injector pipe needed to be replaced. Then in July 2018,  after 
Mr B had driven the car around  13,000 miles,  the coolant pipe was replaced. Given 
the time that had passed and the mileage Mr B had covered I find that further 
evidence is needed to show that these  issues were  due to faults that were  present 
from the point of supply. 
Mr B experienced further issues and the engine may now need to be replaced. The 
car underwent  an independent inspection in May 2019. At this time the mileage was 
noted as just over 48,000. The inspection reports that the cylinder head gasket had 
overheated and there is a suggestion  that Mr B continued to drive  the car after 
warning lights had come on causing  drive  on damage.  The report  concludes that the 
engine would need to be removed and stripped  for the failed components to be 
identified.
On balance, taking  into account  the amount of time and mileage that had been 
covered since acquisition, and since the previous head  gasket  repair, and noting the 
comments in the inspection report, I do not find I can say, without further evidence, 
that the issues with Mr Bs car are due to ongoing faults that were  present from the 
point of supply.  
I know this will be a disappointment  for Mr B but for these reasons,  I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Black  Horse Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4334085