K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about the way in which National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has 
administered overpayments on his mortgage account.
background
In 2017, on the advice  of a mortgage broker, Mr G took out a mortgage with NatWest.  He 
borrowed £132,500  over a term of 14 years, with the first five years on a fixed rate of 2.38%. 
The mortgage is on a capital and interest repayment  basis
The mortgage provides that overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance  can be 
made each  year without  incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). The mortgage  offer 
says, in relation  to overpayments; You benefit  immediately  from overpaying directly to your 
mortgage. If you make an overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe,  and 
the amount of interest  you pay, is reduced  immediately.. 
The mortgage terms also provide that a regular overpayment can be set up. These will be 
collected with the monthly  repayment  and will not be varied automatically in the event of any 
change to the interest rate. 
In June 2018 Mr G telephoned  NatWest to pay £6,000 as a lump sum.  He also increased  his 
repayments from the contractual amount of £928.14  to £1,230 per month. 
In March 2019 Mr G wanted to make a £3,000 overpayment but was told he could only pay 
£2,684. He paid it but later queried this and was told that if he made  any payment over 
£2,000 the mortgage  was recalculated. Mr G asked for the £2,684 to be refunded.  
Mr G says that he then learned  that after hed made the lump sum payment  in July 2018,  his 
mortgage was recalculated to £878.68  per month  rather than £928.14 so the additional  
£49.46 hed been paying had been coming off his 10% annual  allowance  without him 
knowing.
Mr G says he was never told that his mortgage  would be recalculated  and that this isnt 
stated anywhere in NatWests terms and conditions. He wants his monthly repayment to be 
returned to £928.14, backdated to July 2018. He feels he is losing  out by £49.46  each 
month, and still has three years on his fixed rate so this is a large amount going towards his 
10% annual  allowance. Mr G doesnt  want his payments  to be applied  in this way.
Mr G complained to NatWest, which didnt uphold the complaint, although  it did acknowledge 
that Mr G should have been told that his mortgage  repayments would have been calculated. 
But NatWest  also said that it had sent Mr G correspondence about the change  to his 
repayments.
Mr G complained to us. An investigator  looked at the complaint and, after looking at 
everything that had happened (including  call recordings), he didnt think  NatWest had acted 
incorrectly in the way it had applied the payments.
But he noted  that when Mr G spoke to the bank on 12 June 2018  he made it clear that he 
didnt want his monthly repayment to be recalculated. The investigator asked NatWest to pay 
compensation of £150 for this, which the bank agreed to. The investigator  explained  to Mr G 
Ref: DRN40668242that he was no worse off as a result of how NatWest  had dealt with the overpayments, and 
thought the compensation  offered was fair.
Mr G didnt accept this. He accepts he isnt any worse off in relation  to the way the 
overpayments have  been applied. But he wants his monthly repayment to be returned to 
£928.14 rather than the recalculated amount of £878.68.
As the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to issue  a final decision on the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive looked at the loan terms and 
conditions and the mortgage  offer. 
The complaint is about a fairly simple issue. Mr G contracted with NatWest to repay the 
mortgage over the contractual term.  He  can pay more  than the contractual amount if he 
wishes, and there are two ways  to do that; individual  lump  sums, and paying more than the 
contractual payment each month. But if the extra amount paid in any given year reduces the 
balance by more  than 10% above and beyond the contractual amount,  then an ERC will be 
applied on amounts that exceed the 10% allowance.
Mr G says that information about recalculation  of the mortgage isnt in NatWests terms and 
conditions and so he was unaware of it.
The mortgage offer says:
If you make  an overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe, and 
the amount of interest  you pay, is reduced  immediately.
I note that the mortgage terms and conditions say:
Monthly payments will be..the  amount necessary  to repay the loan with interest 
and charges by the end of the term of the mortgage (7.1)
and
We can also change  the monthly  payments  when  you repay part of the loan  (7.5)
and
When the monthly  payment for a particular month is greater than or less than the 
amount of interest  due in that particular month,  the balance of the loan will be 
reduced or increased,  as the case  may be, to account for the difference  between  the 
monthly payment  and the amount of interest  due in that particular  month. The 
amount of interest  calculated thereafter will reflect the adjusted balance  of the loan. 
(7.8)
On its website, NatWest says, in relation to overpayments:
Overpayments help to reduce the balance of your mortgage  and you will therefore 
pay less interest.
So Im satisfied NatWest provided Mr G (and his mortgage adviser)  with information about 
how overpayments would  affect the mortgage.  It was Mr Gs mortgage advisers role to 
Ref: DRN40668243explain the terms and conditions and to answer his questions about how the mortgage  
operated  including the way NatWest would deal with overpayments..
I dont know if Mr G asked the adviser  about  overpayments at the point of sale. But if he did, 
and if Mr G considers that he wasnt told how they would be applied, thats something Mr G 
will need  to take up with the adviser.
After making a lump  sum payment, NatWest recalculated the monthly  payment, in line with 
the terms and conditions. Im satisfied  its entitled to do this. Im also satisfied  that NatWest  
wrote to Mr G on 13 June  2018 explaining that the bank  had amended  his monthly 
repayments to £1,230  per month  (as hed requested), which included an overpayment  of 
£351.32. 
£1,230 - £351.52 = £878.48,  the amount of the recalculated monthly repayment.
I appreciate Mr G is unhappy that NatWest has reduced his contractual payment from 
£928.14 to £878.68, but Im satisfied the bank has done this in line with the account terms 
and conditions. In the circumstances, Im not going to tell the bank  to change the repayment 
back to the higher amount.
I note that in June  2018  Mr G told NatWest he didnt want  his payments reduced and 
NatWest said it wouldnt  do this. NatWest  has acknowledged that what  it told Mr G was 
incorrect. Where  a mistake has been  made, I need  to look at what would have happened if 
the mistake hadnt  been made.
In this case, the mistake was not that NatWest  reduced the payments when it shouldnt have 
(which is what  Mr G believes). As Ive said above, the bank was entitled to do this. Rather, 
the mistake was telling  Mr G that it wouldnt reduce  his payments when in fact the banks 
policy was to do so.
If NatWest hadnt made this mistake, Mr G would  have  been told that he could not keep his 
repayments at the same  level as before the lump  sum payment. As Mr G acknowledges, he 
has suffered no financial  disadvantage;  but he has had a loss of expectation and 
disappointment because he thought he could keep his monthly repayments the same, when,  
in fact, he could  not.
Im glad to see that NatWest has acknowledged  that this has caused Mr G some upset. The 
bank has agreed  to pay compensation for this of £150. I think  this is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in all the circumstances.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr G wanted, but I hope my explanation has clarified why I 
dont think NatWest has done anything wrong  in this case.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. For poor customer  service, I direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr G compensation of £150 in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.  I make  no other  order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Ref: DRN40668244Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4066824