K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B complains that Close Asset Management  Limited (trading as Close Brothers  Asset 
Management  CBAM) gave her advice that caused  her to leave her employers defined 
benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme  (OPS). They then provided advice that it wasnt 
suitable for her to transfer her deferred  benefits  in that OPS, leaving her unable to re-join the 
OPS and losing the accrual  of further  benefits.
Background
Mrs B and her husband Mr B, both approached CBAM in 2018 seeking  advice about 
transferring their defined  benefit OPSs. 
Mrs B was a contributing  member of her employers defined benefit  OPS. Shed been a 
member since  1989.
CBAM met with Mr and Mrs B in January 2018 and completed a fact find with them. They 
ascertained that:
-Mr B was 50 and Mrs B was 48
-Both were employed full time
-Both were in good health
-They had three children,  one of which was an adult
-They had mortgages for about £1,000,000 on two properties with terms of 21 and 19 
years to pay 
-They had cash savings of £38,000 and premium  bonds of £50,000
-They had investments collectively of around £260,000
-They had two properties worth about  £1,500,000
-They had a boat valued at £10,000
CBAM recorded that Mr and Mrs B had the following main  financial goals  regarding  their 
pensions:
-Maximising the provision of death benefits for dependants
-Retirement planning, estimated joint income of £60,000 a year when Mr B reached 
age 55
-Limit their estates liability to inheritance tax
In the meeting of January 2018 the option of transferring Mr and Mrs Bs OPS benefits into 
defined contribution schemes  was discussed.  The initial  focus was on Mr B transferring his 
OPS benefits and Mrs B retaining her OPS  scheme. CBAM explained that this afforded the 
option of increased  flexibility  for them both to retire  when  Mr B reached  age 55, with the 
advantage of retaining half of their guaranteed benefits. 
There was another  meeting with Mr and Mrs B in February 2018 where further discussion 
took place regarding potential pension transfers.  CBAMs record  from this meeting indicates 
that Mr and Mrs B were more interested  in both transferring their accrued OPS benefits  into 
self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs). The meeting minutes  indicated  that CBAM 
suggested that it would not be a good  idea to transfer both of their OPS benefits as it 
increased the risk. 
In March 2018 there was discussion between Mr and Mrs B negotiating CBAMs fees for 
advising on a joint transfer for both of their OPS benefits. 
Ref: DRN45643662Both Mr and Mrs B submitted notice to their employers  that they wanted to opt out of their 
DB schemes. And received written confirmation  in June  2018 that they would cease to be 
contributing members of their schemes  from 30 June 2018, by which time Mrs B was aged  
49.
CBAM then undertook a full analysis of the pension transfers. They  provided a suitability 
report for Mr B recommending that he transfer his now deferred benefits  in his OPS  to a 
SIPP. CBAM recommended  that Mrs B remain in her OPS. They considered the risk meant it 
wasnt suitable for them as a couple  to sacrifice  all their guaranteed benefits.
Mrs B complained to CBAM that she had come out of her DB scheme and couldnt re-join  it. 
It was a scheme that was no longer available to staff and had been replaced  with a defined  
contribution scheme.  She said that CBAM  should  have  made  it clear  that their income  
requirements could  have been  met from Mr Bs pension without her transferring, and that 
they should have been clear about whether they could recommend  a transfer for her or not. 
CBAM considered her complaint. CBAM  responded on 28 November 2018  explaining  that 
their adviser didnt provide any formal recommendation to opt out of the OPS. But CBAM 
acknowledged that the three meetings their adviser  held with Mr and Mrs B may have had 
an impact on Mrs B opting out of her OPS.  CBAM  explained that they had subsequently 
completed a Feasibility  Report regarding Mrs B transferring her deferred benefits in her OPS 
to a SIPP. It was sent to her on 23 November 2018 and didnt make a recommendation 
either way. But based  on Mrs Bs primary objectives  of flexibility  of income  and improved 
death benefits, CBAM sent a second Suitability Report. It explained that her needs could be 
met by transferring  her deferred OPS benefits with both Mr and Mrs B purchasing annuities 
at age 60 to each secure an income of £15,000 a year. CBAM acknowledged  the 
inconvenience caused and offered to waive the initial advice fee of £10,000  that would have 
applied on the transfer of both Mr and Mrs Bs schemes.
Mrs B was unhappy with CBAMs response so brought  her complaint to us. Mr B confirmed  
that he had transferred his deferred OPS  benefits  to a SIPP with CBAM. He was satisfied 
with this and considered  that it met his objectives. Mrs B confirmed  that following the advice 
from CBAM  she was not transferring her deferred  OPS benefits. As she now understood that 
their income requirements could  be met without also transferring her pension, she didnt  
think it was in her best interest. But she didnt have the option of going back into her defined 
benefits OPS. So, she said that CBAM were responsible for the loss of further  years  towards  
her final salary scheme benefits.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld.  She thought 
that CBAMs  actions  had led to Mrs B opting  to come out of her OPS whilst still employed. 
She therefore ended  up with deferred  benefits and was unable to re-join  that pension 
scheme. Our investigator thought it would be fair to ask CBAM to calculate the loss Mrs B 
would suffer by not having the opportunity to continue to accrue benefits in her DB scheme 
until age 53 when she intended to stop work.  When considering redress,  our investigator  
considered all of Mrs Bs stated objectives and considered that it was more likely than not 
that she would still seek to transfer her deferred  OPS benefits at 55 in order  to achieve the 
income and death  benefits for dependants. So asked CBAM to calculate the losses  up until 
that point.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators  view.  Whilst agreeing that it was reasonable to 
assume that she was likely to stop working  at 53, she didnt think it was fair to assume that 
Ref: DRN45643663she would  take her benefits  at 55 now. So, she thought that any redress should be 
calculated assuming she wouldnt need  to take her benefits until age 60.
CBAM have  explained that retiring at 53 and generating a joint income  of £5,000  a month 
were only two of Mrs Bs objectives.  They believe  that it was also very important to Mrs B to 
have flexibility in how she took her pension and in wanting to leave any residual  pension  pot 
to her child from her first marriage. They explained  that the decision to look at a transfer  of 
Mrs Bs DB scheme was made  by Mrs B and was never the initial  advice from CBAM. CBAM 
also point out that at no point during their meetings with Mrs B did it seem that she ever 
intended to wait until her schemes retirement age in order  to access her benefits.
As Mrs B didnt agreed with our investigators view the case  has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. And I issued a provisional decision to explain my view and give both 
parties an opportunity  to respond.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought that CBAM were responsible for Mrs B 
opting out of her OPS. And I explained  what I thought CBAM needed to do to put things  right 
for Mrs B, assuming that shed have remained in her OPS  until age 53, but taken  her 
benefits at age 55. CBAM offered no further  comments in response to my provisional 
decision. Mrs B disagreed  with my view that she would now take her pension benefits at age 
55.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered the additional  comments  
Mrs B has made, but my final decision remains the same, for the following reasons.
This complaint was brought to us by Mr and Mrs B as the advice that they sought from 
CBAM related to their joint finances.  Its clear that CBAM were considering Mr and Mrs Bs 
joint circumstances in the advice they provided.  But Mr B has made it clear to us that he is 
happy with the transfer  outcome he got. So, I havent considered the recommendation made  
for Mr B to transfer his OPS benefits to a SIPP. Instead Ive focussed on whether CBAM 
dealt with Mrs B fairly.
Did Mrs B opt out of her OPS as a result of CBAMs actions?
CBAM have  consistently  explained that they didnt formally recommend to Mrs B that she 
come out of her OPS. Theyve referred  to the fact that the meeting  notes imply that their 
recommendation was to remain  in the OPS.  And there is nothing  included in the records of 
CBAMs meetings  with Mrs B that formally  recommends  that she opt out of her OPS. But its 
also important to consider  why Mrs B opted  out.
Mrs B has said that she came out because she was informed it was the next stage for her to 
be able to transfer her OPS benefits  to a SIPP. So Ive considered  this.
I think that Mr and Mrs B were very serious about the idea of transferring the cash equivalent 
transfer values  (CETV) from their DB schemes.  They were  proactive in seeking advice about 
this and they appear to have had a good idea about what  they wanted  by transferring. The 
fact find that CBAM conducted indicated that Mr and Mrs B were both well informed about  
what their OPS benefits were. And they had identified  that transferring may have  given them 
the freedom to take their benefits  in a way that better suited their needs. Mrs B had 
Ref: DRN45643664previously obtained  a CETV so knew that it was valued around  £1.4 million. Mr and Mrs B 
also showed an understanding of what affected CETVs and considered that the CETV at 
that time was high.
But neither  Mr or Mrs B had opted  out of their DB schemes prior to speaking  with CBAM. So, 
whilst I think that they were very interested in the transfer, I dont think  it would be fair to say 
that theyd decided to transfer irrespective of the advice they were asking for. And as well 
informed as Mr and Mrs B appeared, analysing the suitability  of transferring from a DB 
pension is a complex and highly regulated area of financial advice. So, I dont think it would 
be reasonable to expect  Mrs B to fully understand  the financial implications of transferring 
out of her OPS without  the full advice  that she was seeking.
Over the course of the meetings that CBAM had with Mrs B, comprehensive information was 
taken from both Mr and Mrs B in order to help understand whether a transfer  would be 
suitable. I think that the overall impression of the meetings is that the idea of the transfer was 
encouraged before the proper analysis  was done.  
CBAM have  shared the joint financial planning  questionnaire  that they completed. And under 
the section for income and expenditure, the question are you a member?  - regarding her 
employers pension scheme - was answered  no. Which wasnt  true. And underneath that 
CBAMs adviser has noted  You are looking to transfer your pension from [employer], in 
order to do this you have  to come out of the scheme. This tends to indicate that prior to any 
proper analysis of a transfer  Mrs B was led to understand  that she needed  to opt out of her 
scheme as the next step.
The minutes from the February  meeting  between  Mr and Mrs B and CBAM  indicated that 
CBAMs adviser explained  that both Mr and Mrs B transferring increased their risk. But the 
minutes stated that they both felt their CETVs  were  too big to give up as defined  benefits. So 
whilst I dont think that at this stage CBAM were making a considered recommendation on 
transferring they were  still clearly exploring the option. The minutes indicated that despite 
saying that they wouldnt  recommend both Mr and Mrs B opt out, they still presented  them 
with an illustration of how their income  needs could be met with a pot of around  £2.5 million.  
This would have required the transfer  of both schemes. So, I think its easy  to see how,  at 
this stage, the idea of transferring both schemes and having a pot of money  of that size 
would have been very attractive. And other than possibly saying that opting out of the OPS 
wouldnt be recommended, I cant see that Mrs B was provided any supporting  evidence  to 
say why transferring  may not be suitable.  
The meeting  between CBAM and Mr and Mrs B in March 2018 further explored the idea of 
Mr and Mrs B transferring from their DB schemes.  The minutes of the meeting indicate that 
Mr and Mrs B were  shown a prepared stress test. It showed them that if they transferred, 
they could continue drawing £5,000 a month from their pensions throughout their life and 
would leave money for their children. It said that this was a comfort  to the clients . CBAM 
recorded that both Mr and Mrs B were adamant that they both wanted  to move their 
pensions away from their DB schemes. The minutes  state they would have  to come out of 
the defined benefit scheme as active members. CBAM absolutely  do not recommend this as 
a course of action. CBAM recommend you both remain  in the scheme  and take your DBs. 
But the following  paragraph said, once  [they] come out of the scheme, clients to confirm that 
they have done this  would then order CETV and start DB process.
I have also seen an email  exchange between Mr B and CBAM from May 2018.  Mr B emails  
CBAM asking for an update on their OPS transfers.  CBAM responded  by asking if Mr and 
Ref: DRN45643665Mrs B were  both still active members of their DB schemes. Mr B responded to say that Im 
guessing its classed as inactive now as you told us we need  to fill the forms to exit the 
scheme. CBAM then responded with I have been waiting for you to confirm that you have 
come out of the scheme.  Now that you have I can order the transfer value which  will be valid 
for three months. The context of this further  implies that CBAMs adviser  was not only 
aware, but likely  instrumental in Mrs B opting  out of her scheme.
Whilst CBAM say that they didnt advise Mr and Mrs B to opt out of their respective 
schemes, the meetings show that CBAM went to some lengths to demonstrate  to them  that 
transferring would enable them to meet their income needs and provide the lump sum death  
benefits that they wanted. And having reinforced Mr and Mrs Bs idea that a transfer  might  
be beneficial, CBAM  let them know that the next thing they needed to do was come  out of 
their DB schemes as active members. Ive seen  no evidence  that CBAM  intended  to carry 
out the necessary transfer analysis  until they did. So, I think  that its more likely than not that 
Mrs B came out of her OPS because the meetings and correspondence that she had with 
CBAMs adviser led her to believe that it was a suitable thing for her to do.
Has Mrs B been disadvantaged as a result  of CBAMs advice?
Mrs B was 49 when she became a deferred member  of the OPS.  And its agreed  that her 
intention was to stop working  at age 53 when Mr B told CBAM she intended to stop working. 
So, she has missed out on further years  of accrued benefits in her OPS. 
CBAM explained to Mrs B that they subsequently provided a recommendation for her to 
transfer her deferred  OPS  benefits to a SIPP followed by purchasing  an annuity at age 60. 
And because they consider that the decision to opt out was Mrs Bs, any liability  for any loss 
she subsequently experiences by not transferring is down to her. But I dont agree. Her loss 
hasnt come about by her decision not to transfer. It has come about by the fact she was 
encouraged to opt out of her scheme  in order that CBAM could advise on the transfer.
CBAM provided Mrs B with differing advice. They initially recommended against  transferring 
(although this was prior to conducting  a full review). Then issued a Suitability  Report  
explaining the pros and cons  of transferring but declining to make  a recommendation. Then 
they finally issued  a Suitability Report  supporting a transfer from her deferred  OPS. That 
recommendation was conditional on Mr and Mrs B each purchasing  ten-year fixed annuities 
for £15,000 a year at age 60. But this wouldnt have met Mrs Bs target income 
requirements. It would  have meant that drawdown  from the remaining capital would still have 
been needed, and that capital would be reduced at age 60 by having  purchased  an annuity. 
It wasnt like the illustration theyd been  given prior to opting out of the OPS. So I can see 
why Mrs B chose not to follow  their final recommendation.
Importantly though, Mrs B wasnt a deferred  member of her OPS  when she went to CBAM 
for advice.  She was an active member. And CBAM  were right when theyve acknowledged 
that their adviser should have provided full transfer  analysis and a suitability report before 
Mrs B opted  out. It was the advice Mrs B was asking for, and it was in her best interests  to 
be provided a detailed and considered opinion prior to speculating on the benefits of a 
transfer. So I dont  think the question of whether  it was suitable to transfer her deferred  OPS 
benefits is what I need to consider. I must decide whether CBAM would have likely advised 
that a transfer  was still suitable for Mrs B whilst she was a member of her OPS.
The Suitability Report  that CBAM  should  have produced for Mrs B (before she came  out of 
her OPS) ought also to have considered the impact  of coming  out of the scheme too. 
Ref: DRN45643666Remaining in her scheme whilst still working  would have increased  the value of her final 
salary benefits in a way that investing  the CETV would  likely have failed  to match. And even 
at that point, she would have been  two years  from being  able to take her benefits. So, she 
could very easily  have remained in her OPS until 53 and then considered her options  
regarding transferring again at that point. I dont think it would have been reasonable of 
CBAM to have recommended the transfer  in those circumstances. I dont think the argument 
of improved flexibility would have been relevant until she was nearer age 55 and had 
deferred benefits. And I dont think that transferring to secure  the lump  sum death benefits 
would have been enough of a reason to override the negatives in transferring  whilst still in 
the scheme at that time. Especially considering Mrs B was in good health.
CBAM should have  explained the considered reasons why transferring wasnt suitable for 
Mrs B before she opted out of her scheme. Had they done so I think  they should have clearly 
advised her to remain in her OPS at that time.  And I think that its more likely than not that 
she would  have accepted that advice. So would still now be in her OPS and would likely 
remain in it until age 53. 
Mrs B has made it quite clear  to us that knowing what she does now about transferring  or 
taking her pension,  she thinks  shes unlikely to take her OPS benefits until age 60. Mr and 
Mrs B now believe that Mr Bs pension can meet their income  needs  until that point via 
drawdown and the pension  commencement  lump sum. CBAM have explained that they think 
that Mrs B would access her benefits  at 55 because that always  featured  in their 
discussions. I need to consider what I think would have been most likely if CBAM  hadnt 
made the mistake  that I think they did. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that, whilst Mr Bs pension and PCLS  may be enough 
to meet  their needs, I thought it would involve a maximum  drawdown income that would 
deplete his pension  fund capital. Mrs B has disagreed with this. But taking a maximum 
drawdown will have the effect of reducing the amount of capital in Mr Bs pension.  Its 
unlikely that investment returns will be sufficient to meet  their income  needs.  So over the 
course of seven years that would place an unnecessary burden on Mr Bs pension  alone, 
when Mrs Bs deferred pension would be available  from age 55. It would adversely affect the 
lump sum death benefits of Mr Bs pension that were an important reason for the transfer. 
I also explained in my provisional  decision  that the way pension Lifetime Allowance (LTA) is 
calculated means  that Mrs Bs pension benefits  at 55 will likely be very close  to or above the 
LTA limit. Waiting  until age 60 would increase her annual pension  income,  with the 
possibility that most  of that increase being  over her LTA and so being taxed accordingly. I 
know that Mrs B didnt agree with this, but it was another consideration. So on balance  I still 
think that its most likely  that had she been advised differently and remained in her OPS, she 
would have taken  her deferred  benefits  at 55 as was originally part of the planned  
discussions around her retirement.
Ref: DRN45643667Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I think shed have 
remained a contributing member of her occupational scheme until she reached age 53. 
CBAM must  therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB pension  transfers. 
This should take into account the assumption that Ive made regarding when contributions 
would likely  cease. And adjust for the contributions that Mrs B would  have had to have made 
to accrue those additional pension benefits.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
CBAM may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 40%.  So making a notional  deduction of 30% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must,  where  possible, be paid to Mrs B within 90 days  of the date 
CBAM receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.  Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes CBAM 
to pay Mrs B.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN45643668Determination and money award: I require  CBAM  to pay Mrs B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require CBAM to 
pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £160,000, I only require CBAM to pay 
Mrs B any interest as set out above  on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
CBAM pays  Mrs B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mrs B.
If Mrs B accepts  my decision,  the money award is binding on CBAM. My recommendation is 
not binding on CBAM.  Further,  its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting independent  legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct Close Asset Management Limited to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B in the manner that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4564366