K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two Total Mortgage  Protection policies (TMPP) taken  out in 2002 and 
2008. Mr and Mrs A says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them the TMPP. 
TMPP can be split into sections - namely  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which is a form of 
mortgage payment  protection insurance MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness  Cover  (CIC).
background
In 2002, Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage and were sold TMPP. This policy included all 
sections of the TMPP.
In 2008, Mr and Mrs A applied for a further  advance.  The MPPI section of the 2002 policy 
increased to cover the extra  borrowing.  At the same time, they were  sold a new TMPP. This policy 
only included Life Cover,  and CIC  and covered the shortfall  in these areas  created by taking on 
the extra borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of TMPP on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A say that they were told that the TMPP was suited to their circumstances and 
would help them in getting the mortgage they wanted. I cant know what  was said at the 
time, and Mr and Mrs A havent  provided much  detail about this  so I have to base my 
decision on the information I do have.
BoS hasnt been able to provide  paperwork  from the sales,  but this isnt unusual given how long 
ago the sales  took place   but it has been  able to show that its sales  process  at the time presented  
TMPP policies as an optional product   and gained proper consent to take them out. And I havent 
seen anything to suggest that BoS did anything differently  when it sold Mr and Mrs A their TMPP.
So I think its most likely BoS made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs A didnt have to take out the TMPP 
policies and that they chose to take them  out.
BoS recommended the TMPP policies to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check that they were  
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the TMPP 
policies and they seem to have had a need  for the cover.  
However, I can see that for the policy sold in 2002, the Life and Critical Illness parts  of the 
policy were sold as level term policies  (LTAs). This means that the amount of cover 
wouldnt decrease in line with the balance  of the mortgage. I think  that decreasing term 
Ref: DRN41948112policies (DTAs) wouldve been more appropriate. But BoS has confirmed that comparative  
DTA policies available  at the time wouldve been more expensive.  So I dont think Mr and 
Mrs A have lost out here. The Life and Critical Illness parts  of the TMPP sold in 2008  
provided DTA cover. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs A about the TMPP policies wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take them out - it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like the policies could have been  useful  for them  if something 
went wrong. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs A did try to make claims against the 2002 policy for 
Mrs A in 2012. But from the information Ive seen  it appears that they didnt comply with the 
requirements of the policy in order  to make a claim.
It also looks like the policies were  affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the 
TMPP would  have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said - but these points dont  change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policies were mis-sold.
But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs A back  some of the cost of the MPPI section 
on the 2002 policy. I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs A now Ive issued  my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4194811