K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) registered a default  against her credit file 
unfairly.
background
Mrs R had a bank account with HSBC and in 2007  moved abroad. At that time there  was a 
balance outstanding on the account of £469.04. Mrs R said she had been under the 
impression that her former husband had been paying £20 per month  towards the balance 
and was therefore surprised to learn, when she returned to the UK in 2016, that there was 
still an amount outstanding  and a default  had been  registered against her. She said she had 
assumed he had been paying every month and was never informed by HSBC  to the 
contrary. 
As a result she said that her credit rating had been adversely affected and she had been 
refused a credit card because of her bad credit rating
HSBC said they wrote to Mrs R in November  2009  to advise her that her overdraft facility 
would be removed because the account  had remained  in arrears without sufficient credits 
being paid into it. Further that they had sent demand  letters  to Mrs R in May and June  2013,  
but because the balance  wasnt paid the account  was closed in July 2013 and passed to 
their internal  debt recovery department. Thereafter the default  was registered against her 
credit file. 
HSBC didnt feel they had acted unfairly and said they had acted in line with the correct 
procedures.
Mrs R was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. As Mrs R didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. I do not perform  the role of the industry 
regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, 
or direct that they change their processes.  That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. 
I need to consider whether HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mrs R. I 
take into account both their view and that of Mrs R. My aim is not to reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the evidence before me. Where  that evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances of the case.  
So, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here. I can certainly empathise with Mrs R as 
she believed  her former husband had been  making payments to her account, and so it must  
Ref: DRN40678712have come as some  surprise to learn  that it had not been enough to prevent HSBC  taking 
the action they did.
However, it is the responsibility  of each customer to manage their own accounts. That 
includes updating the bank of their contact details. Ive looked  at the details the bank had on 
file for Mrs R and that shows  that she had set up her preferred method of contact to be by 
post. Mrs R was not registered  for telephone or internet  banking  and there  was no preferred 
telephone number recorded.  Whilst there was an email address recorded  on file HSBC  have 
said that they think this was only added  in 2018.
So having  looked at the correspondence HSBC sent to Mrs R I can see that they did 
correctly address it all to property address recorded on their files. That address was not 
updated and so they have  acted fairly in writing to it. So I am satisfied  that HSBC  have  acted 
fairly in advising Mrs R of the status of her account and the action she needed to take. I cant  
say therefore  that they have acted unfairly  in closing the account when their demands for 
payment were not met. It follows that their action in registering a default against the account 
was also fair and in line with the correct procedures.
I know Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. So I cant say HSBC have acted unfairly and Im 
not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4067871