K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Ms S complain  that S & C Financial Services insisted they take out unsuitable and
unnecessary joint life insurance  policies in March 2006 and July 2010, particularly given the
extent of Mr Rs existing  cover (sold by the same advisor).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 24 October  2019 partially upholding this complaint.
Mr R disagreed with elements of my decisions, saying:
He has no further comments  about why this service ruled the 2004  sale was outside 
our jurisdiction  but he still believes the advisor should have recommending  using this 
policy as suitable  protection  for the 2006 mortgage
He doesnt  accept this policy wasnt suitable/sufficient; nor does he think  this service 
should be able to dictate what qualifies as eligible cover;  surely  it is the providers  
who must make that assessment
He was the person paying very high monthly  premiums and should have been the 
person to decide what this excess cover was allocated to 
Having consulted the insurance  provider,  hes been told that the 2004 policy could 
have been amended  to cover both mortgages  with a decreasing term
The total mortgage amount (£30k  and £121,500) was similar  to the £150k  cover and 
could have been amended to include Ms S.
The provider said it was happy  to adjust policies to clients changing  needs
When this service  first looked  into the 2004 policy  the adjudicator said it was sold to 
support a mortgage, but we are now saying it was general life insurance; this paints a 
confusing and contradictory picture
The advisor should have recommended amending the 2004  policy;  instead of 
recommending doubling  his cover  (and that ignores the fact that half of the mortgage 
commitment was Ms Ss)
My comments about the 1998  and 2001  policies (and whether they should have been  
cancelled) indicate that the 2001 policy  was not required to support the original 
mortgage in 2004,  nor in 2006
My reference to a considerable amount of additional insurance can only refer to the 
2004 policy with £150k of cover
If I thought it was acceptable  as cover for the original mortgage of £30k, why wasnt  it 
sufficient for the remainder of this cover  - £120k  to be assigned to the new 
mortgage
I said that I didnt think  he would have chosen to keep either policy simply to protect 
this modest mortgage debt. In that case, what evidence is there that he would have 
taken out £121,500  of new cover?
If an ombudsmans view is that mortgage debt should be protected  by a specific  
policy, why did I imply this wasnt  true in this instance?
If the 2001 policy was to replace  the 1998  policy, as I said,  why does the redress only 
start from 27 March 2006?
Redress in relation  to the 2001  policy should  start from 23 January 2004, the date he 
took out the considerable amount of extra insurance (i.e. the 2004 policy)
The redress for the 1998  policy  should start on 31 December 2001 (the start of the 
replacement policy)  and redress  on the 2004  policy should be for the entire duration 
when the 2006  policy was live
Ref: DRN44032492S & Cs representative  didnt accept my view that Mr Rs complaint should  be partially 
upheld, saying:
My provisional decision was based on assumption  not fact
There is no evidence that Mr R was not told to cancel these policies
The advisor had nothing to gain by Mr R keeping  them as he was no longer enjoying 
commission on them i.e. after the first four years
The business was formed  in 2001  so how can it be responsible for refunding 
premiums on a policy started in 1998?
This original complaint  was based on a potential PPI mis-sale,  which  was never the 
case
There is no evidence of any contract being  mis-sold
He objects to me bemoaning that the paperwork for the recommendations in 2001, 
2004, 2006 and 2010 are not available; the regulator recommends only retaining 
papers for six years
He works  from home and cannot  be expected to keep files beyond  this time
Mr Rs claim that he was told he had to take out life insurance  to obtain the 
mortgage/s is completely  false  as all the paperwork stated clearly that no cover was 
required
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  all the latest 
comments by both parties, I am satisfied that the conclusions I reached  in my provisional 
decision were fair and reasonable, and that the proposed  compensation was about right.
In assessing a complaint my role is to consider all the available  evidence including the 
submissions of both parties about what allegedly occurred and make a judgment  about what  
seems more likely  than not to have  happened.  Where I dont  feel there is sufficient 
persuasive evidence  to reach such a conclusion about a particular issue  then I do not base 
any decision  on these disputed points.  As with many  complaints, there were a number of 
issues where there was insufficient documented evidence (facts as S & C refers to them) but 
I am still charged with considering the overall significance of what  might loosely be called 
circumstantial evidence.
This consideration was at the heart  of this complaint. Mr R said that none of these policies  
have been necessary, the advisor  had misled them into thinking they were compulsory and 
ignored their existing cover to the extent of saying it couldnt be taken into account. S & Cs 
representative, while not the advisor  who made these  recommendations, was adamant  that 
none of this was true. So, my role was to assess the strength of both sides  arguments.
In essence, I didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to safely say the advisor had 
wrongly told these policies were compulsory but I did think,  on balance, that he had ignored  
(at best) Mr Rs existing  cover when making these recommendations such  that Mr R in 
particular was not in a fully informed position  to decide whether he wanted this additional 
protection. 
The fact that there  was so limited documentation was, by definition,  unfortunate as it made it 
harder to be sure about various disputed issues. I did not intend to criticise S & C for failing 
to retain  paperwork it was not required  to but I dont  share its view of the regulators 
Ref: DRN44032493recommendation in this sphere. As I understand it, businesses are expected  to retain  
documentation for six years from the date a policy or investment is surrendered  or matures, 
not simply from its start date.
Ill now address S & Cs key recent points.
Many businesses did make life cover a condition of a mortgage in the 80s and 90s; further, 
this service has seen numerous  complaints where the evidence strongly suggests an advisor 
actively misled  a client about whether cover was compulsory even where  the paperwork 
stated that it wasnt.
The fact that Mr R originally raised this as a complaint about PPI does not invalidate  it. Many 
thousands of complainants,  having read about the so-called  PPI mis-selling scandal,  have 
assumed that the insurance they were sold was a form of PPI. Even where  this is incorrect,  
our role is to assess the merits  of the complaint.
While there  is no evidence to demonstrate  that the advisor did not suggest that Mr R cancel 
any existing policies, if he had done so I think it is more likely than not that Mr R would have 
done this. This advisor met with Mr R on numerous  occasions over a decade  and 
recommended new and additional insurance on every occasion, from what Ive read. We are 
not able to consider Mr Rs complaint  about several of these recommendations as they did 
not meet our jurisdiction test. Nevertheless I have taken into account  what  appears to have 
been a pattern of behaviour, resulting  in an ever-increasing amount of cover.  An amount 
which I think is hard to justify based  on the available evidence.
In reaching such a conclusion I did not seek to ascribe a particular motive to the advisor, 
such as keep earning commission on an old policy, merely that he appeared to have failed to 
fully consider how best to advise Mr R about how much ongoing cover  he needed to pay for.
Therefore, I am entitled to assess whether he should have recommended  certain  existing 
cover when he recommended  these  policies and instruct S & C to pay compensation 
accordingly, even  though  it was not in operation  back in 1998, for example.
Ill now turn to Mr Rs recent  arguments.
As he recognised, this service cannot  look into his complaint about the 2004 
recommendation so I do not need to address  the additional points he makes  about this 
policy including why it was recommended.  I therefore also cannot order  redress from 2004  in 
relation to the 1998 or 2001 policies as I am only concerned  with what  the advisor should 
have said in 2006.
It is at this point that I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the advisor should 
have taken a holistic view about Mr R and Ms Ss overall financial situation  including his 
existing cover, and offered them fair and reasonable options about  what (if any) policies they 
should consider  cancelling.  Primarily, to assist them in deciding  how much  they wanted  to 
pay overall going forward.
Given the advisor did not do this (in my view),  I then took a view about  what  would have 
been reasonable advice  and whether Mr R would on balance  have  followed  this. In this 
context I accept a number of Mr Rs points. My proposed compensation isnt a scientifically 
precise equation and it could be argued that he might  have  chosen  to cancel more policies, 
or less, or taken out lower  cover even though this was a joint policy.  This might have 
Ref: DRN44032494included deciding that as this was a joint debt he only wanted  cover for half of it (although I 
dont think this would have been good advice and dont believe the advisor  should  have  
recommended this).
So, I accept that my proposed compensation can be questioned by both parties as being too 
low or too high. But I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable based on the weight of evidence  
available.
I am also satisfied that I fully outlined why I didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold 
the complaint  about the 2010 policies, and stand  by those reasons.
I therefore instruct S & C to refund the premiums  Mr R paid on his 1998 and 2001 policies 
from the date the 2006 policy started to the date they surrendered  it. It should also add 8% 
simple interest per annum to all the premiums on these policies from the dates they were 
paid to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  to the extent described above and instruct  S & C Financial Services 
to pay compensation  as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44032495provisional decision
complaint
Mr R and Ms S complain  that S & C Financial Services insisted they take out unsuitable and 
unnecessary joint life insurance policies  in March 2006 and July 2010, particularly  given the extent of 
Mr Rs existing cover  (sold  by the same  advisor).
background
The policies under consideration  in this decision  are:
2006:  A 25-year joint term assurance policy with a sum assured  of £121,500 (for a new joint 
mortgage)
2010:  A 20-year term assurance policy for Mr R only with a sum assured of £150,000
Two related  complaints were  dealt  with via separate decisions:
2001:  Level term life and critical  illness cover for Mr R only with a sum assured of £50,000. 
This policy was allegedly recommended as protection for a £40/50,000 mortgage with 23 
years to run (seemingly to supplement a 1998 mortgage protection policy  which only included  
life cover). This complaint was deemed out of jurisdiction.
2004:  A 25-year level term assurance policy with critical illness  cover (and premium  
protection) for Mr R only with a sum assured  of £150,000 (cancelled  in 2010). This complaint 
was also deemed out of jurisdiction.
Complaints are being considered about:
2002  and 2003: two income  protection plans  for Mr R only
Mr R also held (or still holds): a 1998 mortgage-linked policy with a level term sum assured of £40,000
Mr R and Ms S said the advisor told them that as Mr R was self-employed  they needed  the 2005 
policy in order to obtain  the mortgage. They say that both policies were  inappropriate and did not take 
account of their existing cover.
An adjudicator at this service said there wasnt sufficient evidence to safely  say that Mr R and Ms S 
were told that they had to take out the policies, the documentation  indicating otherwise.  He also said 
the policies didnt exclude self-employed people  from making a claim  and so didnt believe the 
evidence showed  the policies had been unsuitable.
Mr R and Ms S did not agree.
Having read the file, I asked Mr R some additional questions. He said that he had taken out level term 
cover in 1998  with a sum assured of £40,000 to match his original  mortgage.  By the time of the 2006 
house purchase he still had this cover  even  though he owed little on the original  mortgage. It is not 
clear how much this was. He has not cancelled this policy  which is due to expire  in 2023.
He reiterated that with his existing cover they had no need for the 2006 policy, which the advisor said 
was compulsory.  He had no dependents, was only responsible for half the mortgage so there was no 
need for the entire mortgage to be paid off in the event of his death.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN44032496Firstly, its important to acknowledge  that the business has not retained any of the fact finds, 
recommendations or suitability letters from these sales nor has it provided any records (such  as 
computer references) to demonstrate that such documents were  produced. This is disappointing and 
makes it impossible to assess all the evidence likely to be relevant to this complaint.
This does not mean  I can, however, simply  accept either what the business  or the complainants  say 
about what was said and discussed. But it does mean that my decision is very much based on the 
balance of probabilities taking account of the limited evidence available  - and I accept  that one or both 
parties may be unhappy with this.
I recognise Mr R and Ms S cancelled their 2006 policy as soon as they switched mortgages and that 
this suggests they may have  been under the impression that they had to take it out to get their first 
joint mortgage.  
However, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to safely reach  the conclusion that the advisor  told 
Mr R and Ms S that this policy was compulsory.  There may or may not have been a misunderstanding 
or even a failure to be clear that this recommendation  was completely optional.  So while I dont 
question Mr R and Ms Ss recollections, I dont  think there is sufficient  evidence to reach  the 
conclusion that they were misled by the advisor, deliberately or otherwise. 
I also dont think the recommendation  was intrinsically unsuitable; while  theoretically each might have 
been responsible for half the debt I dont think it was wrong to recommend a joint policy  for the entire 
mortgage, something which  may well have been no more expensive than two separate policies for 
half each. There was clearly an added benefit in being  able to pay off the entire debt in the event of 
one of their deaths,  something which could have caused very considerable hardship  depending on 
their domestic  relationship.  
But the evidence shows that Mr R already two policies  linked to his 1998 mortgage  and which  
appeared to provide twice  his original borrowing  and far more than this by 2006 given  he had paid off 
some of this mortgage by then. While  this does not mean in principle it was wrong to recommend 
cover for the entire new borrowing particularly  given  this was a joint mortgage, the advisor should 
have taken account of Mr Rs existing cover. 
Having done so, if he decided that Mr R and Ms S should take out new joint cover for the new 
borrowing he should then have  explained  to Mr R that he was now over-insured, based on his actual 
commitments, and recommended that he consider, at least,  cancelling his existing  mortgage-linked 
policies. 
While there is no paperwork to confirm what if anything was said,  based on Mr Rs evidence that the 
advisor did not mention this possibility I think it is more likely than not that this issue was not 
discussed. 
I also think  that if the advisor had raised  this possibility Mr R would, on balance,  have cancelled the 
1998 and 2001 policies. While this may have meant a percentage of his original  mortgage was not 
covered Mr R had, by this time, a considerable amount of additional insurance cover so I dont think  
he would have chosen  to keep either policy simply  to protect this modest outstanding  mortgage debt.
Given this I believe that S & C should refund the premiums Mr R paid on his 1998  cover policy and 
the 2001  one from the dates this new joint policy  was enacted  to the date they surrendered it. It 
should also add 8% simple interest per annum to each premium from the date it was paid to the date 
of settlement of this complaint.
I should  also clarify that while this service concluded that Mr Rs complaint about the 2001 policy  was 
out of jurisdiction it is nevertheless incumbent on me to take it into account  when considering the 
suitability of the advice given in relation  to the policies  under  discussion in this complaint. 
Ref: DRN44032497This however  means I cannot consider the new questions Mr R raises about the 2001 policy. I note 
that he does not accept this was sold as mortgage protection  or to replace the 1998 policy but in my 
view this is the most likely explanation for the recommendation, supported by the limited 
documentation, and is the basis for me concluding  that the policy was no longer needed  when the 
new joint cover was taken out.
Turning to the 2010  life insurance policy, not linked  to the joint mortgage,  I do not feel there is 
sufficient evidence  to uphold a complaint  about  it. General life insurance is obviously of value and 
people choose  to take it out for a myriad of reasons. Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr R would not 
have benefitted from this cover. The fact that he was self-employed would not have affected his ability 
to claim.
Further, the evidence suggests this policy was designed to replace  the 2004 one, which was 
cancelled when this policy started.  It offered the same sum assured for a marginally  smaller premium,  
albeit over an extended period, so appears to have  been  a cost-effective recommendation.  Overall, 
the fact that Mr R had specific  mortgage  protection did not make a recommendation to take out 
additional general  life insurance inappropriate, and vice versa.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct S & C Financial  Services to pay compensation  
as outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4403249