K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) misled her about what was covered 
under her motor policy when her car was set alight.
background
On 7 December  2018, Ms S informed UKI her car had been  maliciously  set alight and burnt 
and that she needed to make a claim.
After the weekend given the road where  her car was parked  had also been damaged by the 
fire, she then asked UKI if they would cover  the cost of the repair  of the road. UKI confirmed 
it was covered several more times as her claim progressed to include requiring Ms S to meet  
with its fire officer.
Then UKI realised her motor policy wouldnt provide cover for the repair of the road and it 
explained this to Ms S apologising and offering her £100 compensation. Later it reduced that 
to £50 compensation. However it appears UKI did pay Ms S £100  compensation.
Ms S didnt agree so she brought  her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that it 
was right her motor policy didnt provide cover  for the repair of the road.  However he thought  
UKI should pay Ms S a further £50 compensation.
UKI disagreed and said it wanted an ombudsman decision. Ms S also disagreed so therefore 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the purposes of the further compensation the investigator suggested only.
Its very clear from UKIs file that it wrongly  and repeatedly confirmed to Ms S that the road 
damage would be covered  under  its motor  policy. The road isnt a public highway and is part 
owned and maintained by Ms S. 
However I agree a motor policy wont provide cover in this way. The reason for this is that a 
motor policy  provides cover for anything the policyholder did wrong  in using their car with 
some limited  exceptions.  So if Ms S set alight her car by accident and caused this road 
damage, cover might then have been available. Cover would also be available if Ms S 
caused an accident and damaged another person and/or their car or any other property. 
Thats because it would  have  been Ms S acting negligently in using her car.
Here however, Ms S had absolutely nothing to do with her car being set alight.  That criminal 
act was done by the person who did set her car alight, not Ms S. Furthermore  it wasnt the 
car per se which damaged the road but the fire. The car without the fire wouldnt have 
damaged the road. So in effect  the road damage  is criminal damage and I think its right this 
policy doesnt respond to covering that, since it wasnt Ms S who instigated the criminal 
damage and indeed had she done so, its very likely  such criminal  damage wouldnt have 
been covered  anyway.  
Ref: DRN42242622I can thoroughly understand how frustrating this is for Ms S, more so because UKI wrongly 
raised her hopes in repeatedly confirming  such damage would be covered. But I dont think  
her motor policy has to respond  to this loss. Possibly if she and her neighbours have 
insurance for the maintenance of the road,  Ms S should seek  to investigate that, but that has 
nothing to do with her motor policy with UKI.
But I do think UKI were wrong to so repeatedly confirm to Ms S initially  that such damage 
would be covered. I find little merit in UKIs  refusal  to pay Ms S the further compensation 
which the investigator recommended on the basis of UKI is entitled  to validate the claim, 
and the fire inspector visit is part of that validation, as of course  if UKI hadnt wrongly 
confirmed to Ms S several times, the fire damaged road repair was covered she wouldnt 
have been put to the inconvenience  of pursuing this part of her claim  and indeed  meeting 
with its fire inspector.  
Therefore, I am of the view the appropriate compensation payable for UKIs failing in this 
regard is the further compensation  of £50 making  its total compensation to her to be £150. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for payment of 
compensation only.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to ensure it has paid Ms S a total of £150 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224262