K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) has unfairly  applied  interest
and charges to her account.
background
Miss M had an overdraft on her account with RBS,  and in 2015 the bank said it was going to
default the account. Miss M said she planned  to clear what  she owed within a month, so
RBS agreed she could make a one-off  payment of £15 to stop the account from defaulting.
Miss M says RBS also told her there  would be no interest or charges applied  to the 
account.
Miss M didnt clear  what  she owed, but she didnt use the account and a third party paid 
£20 a month to reduce  the balance.
In 2016 RBS started to apply interest and charges on the account.  It said this was 
because the account had changed from a graduate account to a standard  current 
account, and that the charges had been applied in line with the account  terms.
RBS accepted that Miss M may have been  wrongly told in 2015 that interest and charges 
wouldnt be applied. It paid compensation of £100  and refunded  some of the charges. It 
later paid a small amount  of additional  compensation  for poor service while dealing with the
complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld but RBS disagreed with her 
conclusions.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 20 June 2019, and said I didnt intend  to 
uphold it. Ive summarised my provisional  findings below:
In 2015 it seemed  Miss M told the bank she intended to clear her overdraft  within
one month. On that basis, RBS agreed  that she could make  a one-off payment of 
£15 to the account, to stop it defaulting.
Miss M had said RBS also told her there wouldnt be any interest  or charges applied
to the account.  I thought it was likely that RBS told her interest and charges wouldnt 
be applied  if the account defaulted   because those are the only circumstances in 
which interest and charges are frozen.
I accepted that in 2015 the account didnt attract interest or charges because it
was a graduate  account at that time.
Miss M didnt clear  the overdraft within one month, but she didnt use the account
and a third party paid in £20 a month  to reduce what she owed.
I was satisfied that interest  and charges were properly applied in line with the
account terms once  the graduate status ended in 2016.
Miss M said RBS didnt tell her the account had changed to a standard current
account, or that interest and charges were being applied. RBSs  records of what it 
had sent to Miss M were limited because  the account is now closed. 
Ref: DRN45639122But Miss M had updated her email  address  with the bank in 2018. It was following
this update that she discovered the interest  and charges.  Miss M is also registered 
for email correspondence on a different account she holds with the bank.
On balance, I thought  it was likely  that Miss M was registered for email  
correspondence on the account in question.  And as she had to update her email  
address, I thought it was possible that RBS had been sending emails  to an address 
that was out of date.
Overall, I wasnt able to safely conclude that RBS didnt  take steps to tell Miss M
about the change to her account, or the interest and charges that would apply. I was
satisfied that the charges on Miss Ms account  had been properly  applied  by
RBS. 
RBS accepted it may have given Miss M information that was wrong  in 2015. It
refunded some of the charges and also paid £100  compensation.  It also paid another 
small amount of compensation for poor complaint handling. I thought  that was fair, 
but I didnt think RBS needed to do anything else.
Miss M didnt agree with my provisional findings  and sent a detailed  response for me to 
consider.
RBS said it agreed with my provisional  findings, and didnt make any further representations.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I think  is most  likely to
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
Ive carefully considered  the further points Miss M has raised, and Im sympathetic to the ill 
health she is experiencing. 
I would also like to reassure her that Id read all of the correspondence  she sent with her 
original complaint  even  though my provisional decision may not have mentioned  every  
point shed raised.  
In addition, its not uncommon for us reach conclusions based  on evidence  that isnt as 
complete as we might  like. But as Ive mentioned above, in those situations we have  to 
weigh up what we think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence  that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss M refers to the agreement she made with RBS in 2015, when the bank was taking 
action to default the account. Shes concerned  about the evidence provided in connection 
with that agreement.
RBS has provided copies of its system notes from the time the agreement was made. A One 
Off Payment  diary  description is recorded  for 23 February 2015, and the notes say:
Ref: DRN45639123Why is the customer in this position?: customer has an illness  and is having  an operation 
and therefore  hasnt had funds to put into the account.
Where will the funds  be coming from? : mother will be paying
Reason I&E not completed: I&E not required as customer can clear  debt in full within 1 
month
Repayment amount:  £15
And later in the notes for the same entry it says:
What specifically will change to make  the deal affordable?: the customers  mother will be 
making the payment; advised on fima; advised of next steps; advised the benefits of dda and 
customer was certain  she wants to go through with the agreement.
The £15 payment allowed Miss Ms account  to avoid  defaulting.  A default would have 
affected her credit record. And as I mentioned in my provisional decision,  it seems that at the 
time Miss M intended to clear the debt within a month.  She didnt manage to do so, but the 
monthly payments  of £20 reduced  what  she owed.
When RBS advised of the benefits  of dda (referring to defaulting the account), I think  its 
likely that it told Miss M the account wouldnt attract any further interest or charges if it 
defaulted.
So I remain  of the view that Miss M arranged to make a one-off payment to stop the account 
defaulting. This was successful, and monthly payments of £20 were then made to reduce 
what she owed. 
The account  was being successfully managed from that point, so it wasnt  necessary  for 
RBS to intervene any further.
Miss M says RBS has never kept proper  records of her account,  and is unhappy  that it no 
longer has records  of its correspondence with her. She also considers closing her account  
has affected the likely success of her complaint. 
RBS has provided copies of Miss Ms account  opening documents, application history,  
contact system notes and statements. So I think theres enough  to say that it had records  of 
her account  on its systems,  although I accept that RBS may not have easily  accessed  those  
records when Miss M first contacted it. 
But RBS has paid compensation  in recognition  of its poor service  when Miss M complained, 
so I dont think the inability to identify  her records affects the overall outcome of the 
complaint.
In addition, I dont  think its unreasonable for RBS not to have kept records of all its 
correspondence with Miss M. Thats because its not supposed to retain data for longer than 
is necessary. RBS has retained the essential details about Miss Ms account, but Im not 
persuaded that it needed to keep  every piece of correspondence.
Ref: DRN45639124Miss M says her original  email account is still in use, and she only gave RBS a new one 
when the bank asked for one, because it couldnt find her on its system.  
But in her original  complaint to this service Miss M said:
The next correspondence I was to receive from RBS was an email on Wednesday July 3rd 
2018 when my email  was updated at the branch.
And later she said:
My email  was taken from me on 2018  branch visit. So how is it my responsibility  to read 
email notifications I did not receive  prior to this. They struggled to find me on the system, this 
caused inconvenience, worry and delay that is not my fault or responsibility.
I might  have  expected  Miss M to have  mentioned  the continued use of her original email 
account when  she first complained.
On balance, for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision, I still think its likely that 
RBS had been writing  to her at an email address that was out of date.
But even if I accepted that RBS hadnt  written  to Miss M to tell her that the account  was 
changing to a standard account, this wouldnt change my overall conclusions about the 
complaint. Thats because the accounts terms and conditions explain what happens when 
the graduate status ends.
Clause 3.4 of the 2015 terms says:
3.4 If you graduate:
(a)before  1 January 2013
(b)from 1 January 2013 onwards, we will convert  your Graduate  Royalties Account to a 
Select Account  in July two years  after you graduate.
So I still remain of the view that the charges and interest  were  charged in line with the 
account terms, once  it became a Select  Account.
Miss M mentions that she wasnt sent a replacement debit card when the original expired. 
But I understand Miss M stopped  using  the account  in 2013 when she was almost at her 
overdraft limit. The overdraft has remained on her account since  then, with monthly  
payments made to reduce  what she owes.  
I think this may explain why Miss M didnt receive  a replacement debit card, although I 
accept that failure  to send the card may have  been an oversight  on RBSs part. But even  if 
thats the case, that point  wouldnt be enough to change my overall  conclusions  about the 
complaint. 
Miss M is unhappy with the compensation RBS has paid. She maintains RBS told her there 
wouldnt be any interest or charges applied to the account when she contacted it in 2015. So 
she doesnt think the money  RBS has paid is enough, and she considers the bank  should  
refund all interest and charges applied since 2016.
Ref: DRN45639125As I said earlier,  in 2015 I think  RBS may have told Miss M there would be no further   
interest or charges applied if the account  defaulted. 
But even if the bank had wrongly  told Miss M there would be no charges  or interest  applied  
at all, we wouldnt  expect RBS to act in line with the information that was wrong.  In other  
words, RBS would  still be entitled  to apply charges and interest  in line with the account  
terms. But we would  expect RBS to pay compensation to acknowledge an error had been 
made.
RBS accepted that it may have given  Miss M information that was wrong  in 2015, and paid 
£100 in recognition of this. It also waived interest and charges worth about  £17.
RBS later paid £30 for poor service  while it was looking  at Miss Ms complaint, and 
reimbursed her £16.20  for phone calls. It waived  further interest and fees worth about £15.
I remain of the view that the compensation paid by RBS, and the fees it waived are fair and 
reasonable.
To conclude,  in 2015 Miss M may have been given information about  interest  and charges 
that was wrong.  But even  if thats the case,  RBS isnt required to act in line with that 
incorrect information. Its able to apply interest  and charges in line with the account terms, 
but it should pay compensation in recognition of its error. RBS has done this in Miss Ms 
case.
In addition, I still think its likely that RBS had been  writing to Miss M at an email address that 
was out of date.  But even  if that wasnt the case,  RBS wasnt obliged  to contact Miss M to 
tell her that the account status was changing.  The terms of the account set out how it would 
change in the years following graduation. 
This means  that overall Im not persuaded to depart  from the position set out in my 
provisional decision.
 
Ref: DRN45639126my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563912