K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt handle a number of payments out of her account 
correctly. She went over her overdraft limit and a direct  debit  was returned unpaid.
background
On 28 March 2019 Mrs P logged onto her bank account and saw that a direct  debit of 
£271.29 would take her over her overdraft limit. So she transferred £200  into her account.  
During the day she made some more payments including one of £133.61.  Lloyds said this 
last payment didnt  leave  enough funds in her account to pay the direct  debit. So it returned 
it. 
Mrs P couldnt understand why this had happened. As far as she was concerned  the direct 
debit had gone out of her account  at the beginning of the day. So she wants to know  why 
Lloyds returned  the direct debit later in the day. She says if there were insufficient  funds in 
her account,  her latest purchase of £133.61 shouldve failed and not the direct debit, which  
was showing on her account as having been  paid earlier that day. When she complained 
Lloyds gave her a very bad service and was rude to her.
Lloyds said that after transferring the £200 into her account, her direct  debit  was due to go 
through by 14.30. It said Mrs P then made  some transactions before 14.30. And there  were  
some payments pending on her account.  But the money she paid in wasnt  enough  to cover 
those payments and the direct debit and to keep her within her overdraft limit. But it 
apologised for the poor customer service itd given  her and transferred £262 into her 
account.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  needed  to do anything more. He said the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ps account say that if there arent  enough available funds  in her account 
by 14.30 Lloyds wont make the payment. He acknowledged that Mrs P thought shed paid in 
enough funds  to cover this earlier  in the day. But there were  other  payments during  the day 
which meant there werent  enough  funds to pay the direct debit when it was due to be 
collected at 14.30. And he thought £262 compensation was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
 
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this. She asked for time to respond to our investigators opinion. So 
he extended the deadline for her to reply. But she hasnt sent any further information for this 
Service to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mrs P feels about  
this so I know she will be disappointed when I say that Ive come to the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for very similar  reasons.
I can see that Mrs P tried to make sure she kept her account within  her agreed overdraft 
limit. Unfortunately  when  she logged  on early in the morning she saw that a direct debit due 
to be paid that day had taken her over the limit by £22.14. She quickly  paid in £200  to rectify 
the situation but during  the day further transactions took her over her limit again. Shes upset 
that the payment Lloyds rejected was the direct debit, which  she thought had been  paid 
earlier. She thinks it shouldve rejected the transaction  of £133.61.
Ref: DRN48041632The difficulty  is that in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account  the direct  debit  
was due to be taken at 14.30.  Thats because she didnt have enough funds in her account  
to cover it at the start of the day.  Mrs P thought that by paying in £200  Lloyds would  pay 
the direct  debit. But by 14.30, which is when she needed to have the necessary funds 
available, other  transactions and pending  payments,  including  the transaction of £131.61, 
had already been debited  in line with its terms and conditions. And there werent  enough 
funds left in the account to pay the direct debit when it was due to be taken. So I cant find 
Lloyds did anything wrong when it rejected it. 
Mrs P thought shed  made sure there were enough funds in her account to cover  the direct  
debit. So she phoned Lloyds to find out what  had gone wrong. But she was given confusing 
and conflicting  information. And to make the situation worse, one of the operators she spoke 
to said she had nothing  to complain about. The banks  accepted  its given her a poor service 
and its paid her £262  compensation for the inconvenience and the upset its caused her. I 
know Mrs P wont  agree  with me but I think thats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4804163