K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained Nationwide Building  Society  wont pay the costs of repairing his car. 
He made  a claim to Nationwide under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In May 2017  Mr P bought  a second-hand car. The car was nearly nine years old and nearly 
114,000 miles were registered  on the clock. Mr P paid a deposit of £650 using his 
Nationwide credit card, then the remaining £3,000 as a transfer.
Within a few days  Mr P found  faults  with the car. The alarm kept going off without warning. 
There were also problems  with the shock absorbers. He also paid for repairs which  hed 
known about when purchasing the car and were more cosmetic  in nature. 
In January 2018 the car failed its MOT as the tyres  were shredded.  Mr P got new tyres  and 
the wheel  alignment fixed. He felt the evidence showed the wheel  alignment  must always 
have been out for the tyres to have  disintegrated so significantly  over eight months.
Mr P had had problems getting  the dealer to sort out anything but one issue. He therefore 
asked Nationwide  to pay the repair costs for new battery, shock  absorbers (and fitting), new 
speaker, two new tyres and wheel alignment. This totalled £587.39.
Nationwide considered this claim under section 75. As the battery and shock  absorbers 
problems had shown  up within  a short period of time after purchase,  they agreed to pay 
£260.95 for those  items. They didnt believe they were  liable  for other  aspects. Mr P brought  
his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the wealth of evidence Mr P provided. He didnt think  it would be 
fair to ask Nationwide  to repay the remainder of Mr Ps costs.  He didnt think there was 
enough evidence  to show the faults  were anything but fair wear  and tear so Mr P had no 
further rights  under  the Consumer Right Act 2015.
Mr P accepted his car may have been  second-hand and had considerable miles on the 
clock. However he still believed he had a right to expect the car to be in a fair and 
serviceable condition.  He didnt agree with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman  to 
consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 8 January 2020. I felt there was enough  evidence  of a 
breach of contract.  So I asked Nationwide  to pay Mr P for the costs of his repairs.
Mr P agreed with this conclusion but re-emphasised some points hed made  earlier about 
even tyre wear.
Nationwide didnt agree  with what Id said. Theyd felt that if the wheels were out of 
alignment, Mr P should have noticed  much earlier. Or alternatively they felt the alignment 
could have been impacted by Mr Ps own driving.
I now have all I need to complete  a final decision.
Ref: DRN42989332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not seen anything  
which has made me change my mind. Ill explain this.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
for goods or services they paid to a supplier  when entering into an associated  credit 
agreement, like Mr Ps credit card agreement with Nationwide. Specific conditions  apply  to 
those claims. Nationwide need to consider whether  there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation that led to Mr P making this purchase.
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding Nationwides liability under section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act. We certainly take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But 
we decide cases  by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. 
What Im deciding is whether Nationwide did enough  in considering  Mr Ps complaint. And if 
they didnt, what  else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask Nationwide to put things right. 
was there  a misrepresentation or breach of contract  in the supply of goods?
Mr P brought a second-hand car but he was looking for this to be in a good condition. And 
he paid a value  that would  add to this impression. The car may have had miles  on the clock 
but Mr P was expecting  it to look good   as I can tell by his keenness to improve the 
cosmetic faults  and function properly. So did it?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  means that goods bought must be of a satisfactory quality. 
This includes goods being serviceable, durable and of appropriate quality according to their 
age and other aspects.  They also need  to be fit for purpose. This covers  second-hand 
vehicles as well as new. 
It may not always be obvious from the start that goods are in breach of consumer rights, 
particularly when considering their satisfactory  quality. For example, goods  manufactured  
with low-quality parts may function perfectly for some time but not be as durable as a 
reasonable person would expect. The fault may therefore show itself sometime after the 
goods were delivered,  but the root cause of the problem was present at that time.
When considering  complaints  of this nature I need  to decide whether there is a fault at all. If 
that isnt clear then the onus is generally on the consumer to show  that a fault exists, 
regardless of when  this may have occurred. 
I then need to consider whether that fault means the goods or service werent of satisfactory 
quality  taking  into account all of the relevant  factors  such  as the age, price  and depending 
on the circumstances, usage of the goods or service. 
Firstly in this case  all the evidence points to a fault with the alarm manifesting within days  of 
Mr Ps purchase. Mr Ps own evidence suggests  this was greatly annoying as it rang 
irregularly (and loudly). I tend to agree with Mr P that it seems  likely this must have also 
been apparent  when  the car was on the forecourt.  Theres no evidence  Mr P was made 
aware of this at the time of purchase  in all the evidence thats been submitted. Ive also seen 
Ref: DRN42989333no evidence from the dealer which  indicates  that this wasnt  present at the point of sale. 
Nationwide has seen  evidence  as have we that this fault was present on 16 May 2017  less 
than a week after Mr P got the car.
In the end it was difficult for Mr P to find out what was causing  the alarm  fault  despite 
replacing the battery. In the end he got the alarm disconnected. Mr P said he was happy  for 
compensation (for no alarm) to be the costs of getting a new battery fitted  and new shock  
absorbers bought and fitted. These works  totalled  £260.95. This was the money  Nationwide 
offered to repay.  I think this offer is fair and provides a resolution, albeit slightly imperfect,  to 
the problem Mr P was having with the alarm.
Ive gone on to consider the problems  Mr P had with the tyres and wheel alignment. His car 
failed its MOT eight months after purchase. This was down to wear on the tyres.  Ive seen 
further evidence  which means Im in no doubt  this wasnt just normal wear and tear on the 
tyres but down to a fault with the wheel alignment.  The analysis provided by the company 
fixing the wheel alignment showed  how far out of alignment the wheels were.  Mr P told us 
they confirmed  the wheel alignment hadnt been done for ages.
Mr P had only completed just over 2,200  miles in the period  from May 2017 to January 2018  
when the MOT was carried out. According to the pre-sales checklist, the front alignment was 
checked in January 2017 and no faults were present. Mr P has told us that the dealer 
admitted to driving  the car for a week himself before it was sold (but more likely  after the 
checklist had been completed). I think its unlikely that the number of miles Mr P completed 
would be the sole cause of the problems he had so this all suggests to me this fault existed 
at point of sale.   
So I think, as covered  above, Mr P had a right to expect  his car to prove  durable. This didnt 
prove to be the case as he needed  to replace two tyres  and have the wheels re-aligned. 
Tyres do wear  but theres nothing to indicate  Mr P bought the car with worn tyres  and he 
was led to believe there was nothing wrong  with the wheel  alignment.  
Ive considered Nationwides point that the problem  with the alignment was caused  by Mr P. 
They believe  he could have caused this by something as simple  as driving into a pothole.  I 
agree this is feasible. But actually I dont think the tyres  would have shown such  wear at the 
sides (and thats what the evidence showed) if thats  what  had happened.   
Ive also considered the faults Mr P had with the noise under the front of his car. This turned 
out to be down to a blown speaker in the front door which Mr P had replaced. Theres  limited 
evidence on this issue  both the noise  and the cause  apart  from what  Mr P has given us. 
But taking all this into account  I think this is mostly  due to wear and tear so wont  be asking 
Nationwide to pay for this.
Under section 75 Mr P can bring a like claim for a breach of contract  against  Nationwide. 
Mr P paid for the works he had carried out to the car. He detailed  this in his summary of 
events about his section 75 claim which he gave to Nationwide  and us.
Overall as I think there were  faults with Mr Ps car that werent down to wear and tear, I think 
its fair and reasonable Nationwide refund Mr P for the relevant costs.  This includes the 
£260.95 which theyve  already offered for a new battery and shock absorbers.  And Ive 
added the costs for rectifying the problems with the wheel alignment. This includes  the costs  
for two new tyres and totals £291.28.
Ref: DRN42989334Mr P is already out of pocket for these costs as they were paid in 2017 and 2018. Mr P has 
shared the details of these invoices with Nationwide to demonstrate when he paid these. 
Nationwide will need to add 8% simple interest per year to those amounts.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
pay Mr P £552.23 for the repairs to his car;
add 8% simple interest a year to the amounts Mr P paid from when he paid them to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4298933