K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy called Mortgage  Repayments Cover alongside their 
existing mortgage.  The policy  covered  Mr L only and they paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy. They  took this policy  out as part of a package called Total  Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP) which offered  accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness  and life cover.  
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Mr and Mrs L have complained about.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs L aware they had a choice in buying the policy.  Mr and 
Mrs L say they werent aware the policy had been added to their mortgage. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs L have any paperwork  from the time of sale.  I dont think 
thats surprising  given that the sale took place  over 15 years ago. But it does mean  I have 
limited information about  the sale, so I have to decide what  I think  is likely to have  happened,  
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear. And nothing Mr and Mrs L have told me makes 
me think Halifax didnt  follow its normal process here. So overall I think  its more  likely 
Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs L they had a choice about  the PPI and they agreed  to it 
although I can understand why they dont remember  this now.  
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs L. If this was the case, it had to check 
it was right for them.  
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances   Mr Ls in particular as the policy  was split 100% 
to Mr L and 0% to Mrs L  they seem to have had a need for the cover. Mr L wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr L says he would have  received a good  level of sick pay benefits from his employer. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out for a maximum of 24 months. This wouldve been  alongside  his 
employee benefits and would have  also covered  him if he was made redundant. I note that 
Mr and Mrs L say they had some savings  but having  the policy wouldve had meant those 
savings could have  been used to cover other essential costs  if Mr L was unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN41201112From what  Mr and Mrs L have told me, Mr L was the main earner. They  had borrowed funds 
against a large  and long term financial commitment, which was secured on their home.  So I 
think having the security  that their mortgage repayments would be made if Mr L was unable 
to work would have  been important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr and Mrs L chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking out the cover.  And overall I dont think Mr 
and Mrs L have lost about by anything  Halifax might have done wrong. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs L. I know  theyve put a 
lot of time and effort into their complaint  and feel strongly it was mis-sold to them. Its always 
difficult to decide  a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought  very carefully  about  
what Mr and Mrs L have said and what I know of Halifaxs sales  processes. And I dont think 
 on balance  I can fairly  and reasonably  uphold their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120111