K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the performance  of the Strategic Investment Allocation  (SIA) Fund  in
a portfolio provided by Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC).
background
In March 2015, Mrs W was advised to invest  over £650,000 of personal savings in an ASC
Target Return investment portfolio by a third-party independent financial adviser  (IFA).  The
target return was LIBOR  plus 3% per annum after charges. Whilst the main investments
performed well, the SIA Fund (forming around  a third of the portfolio) did not, resulting in
Mrs W sustaining  losses.
Mrs W complains that the portfolio did not achieve its targeted return and the SIA Fund didnt
perform as it had been marketed, in particular she argues that the volatile fund did not afford
the highest  level of protection. Mrs W says she was exposed  to more  risk than she wanted
and asks for reimbursement of the major miscalculation of the interest rate projection.
ASC maintain that they didnt provide advice and any concerns about  the suitability of the
portfolio should  be directed to Mrs Ws financial adviser at the time.  This was a Terms  of
Business relationship, where the instruction to open  the Target Return portfolio was given
by Mrs Ws adviser.  The adviser undertook a risk assessment  and selected  the target return.
A model  was then agreed with ASC, targeted to Mrs W as a medium low risk investor. The
overall portfolio  was then managed on a discretionary  basis in line with the risk mandate,
with regular reviews. Ongoing responsibility  for the suitability of the portfolio remained with
the IFA.
ASC say that Mrs W attended a presentation with her IFA in February 2015, where options
were presented. At that meeting Mrs W was told that one third of the portfolio would be
invested in the SIA Fund. However, the SIA Fund  should not be viewed in isolation. Its
diversification offset the risks taken elsewhere  in the portfolio, by investing in sources which
didnt correlate to traditional asset classes and by hedging strategies to remove exposure
from underlying markets.
Historically the target return  portfolios had performed  well, but ASC accept  that the
strategies they employed within the SIA Fund  during Mrs Ws period of investment were
largely unsuccessful  and the SIA Fund  did not perform well. ASC say they were transparent
about the funds performance at the regular review points and whilst that performance was
disappointing, overall the portfolio continued  to be managed within Mrs Ws risk profile.  The
reviews show  that in or around mid-2018 ASC took steps to redress  the poor performance,
by taking the decision to dispose  of some of the SIA Fund and some  other  assets within the
portfolio.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought ASC hadnt provided  Mrs W with
enough information to make an informed  decision about how to proceed. He didnt think
Mrs W fully understood the risks.  Over  80% of the portfolio was invested in equities, which
exposed her to a higher level of risk, in contrast  to her objective of capital preservation.
Further, almost a third of the fund was in a higher  risk fund that used complex instruments.
Overall, he thought the portfolio wasnt suitable for Mrs W and that ASC should  pay fair
compensation.
Ref: DRN42925612ASC did not agree with the view.  They  maintained  that responsibility for assessing whether 
the target  return portfolio was suitable  for Mrs W, fell to her IFA, both initially and on an 
ongoing basis. Further it was the adviser  who recommended ASC as the discretionary 
investment manager.  The SIA Fund  should not be viewed as if it were a standalone  vehicle.  
It provided balance  and diversification to the overall  portfolio, with its express purpose being 
to reduce overall risk. Further the amounts held within that fund were  consistent with the 
illustrations presented to Mrs W in the proposal  documents. Whilst the SIA Fund had not 
performed as hoped, overall the portfolio had been managed  within the mandate  for a 
medium low risk investor.
I wrote  a provisional decision in June  2021,  in which I provisionally  decided not to uphold  the 
complaint. I took into account all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Suitability
I explained at the outset  that I would not be considering the suitability of the recommendation 
to invest and remain invested within the portfolio, which  contained the SIA Fund. It was clear  
from the first page of the investment proposal of February 2015  that ASC were not providing 
advice to Mrs W. This was qualified in page 3, to confirm that Mrs Ws independent adviser 
would be responsible for assessing suitability of the product. It stated:
We understand that [name of IFA] will be accepting  the risk of the portfolios investment
suitability. To meet  this requirement we have an Adviser  Agreement  in place with [name  of 
IFA].
Mrs W signed a Private client application  in February 2015 and ticked the box which  said:
I acknowledge that Standard Life Wealth (now ASC) has not assessed investment suitability
or suitability  regarding my wider  financial circumstances.  My financial adviser has agreed
with Standard Life Wealth (now ASC) that they will have responsibility for assessing
investment suitability.
The adviser agreement  post-dated the proposal and was signed  by ASC and the IFA in
March 2015. It contained  an express  term that the IFA accepted full responsibility for
investment suitability.
ASC constructed  the portfolio based upon information provided  by the IFA as to Mrs Ws
attitude to risk and her objectives. I thought it was for the IFA to assess whether that target 
return portfolio was suitable for Mrs Ws needs considering her attitude to risk, objectives  
and capacity for loss. So, any complaint about  the suitability of the recommendation to invest 
in and remain invested in the portfolio  lies against  the provider of that advice.
My provisional decision considered whether  investing in the SIA Fund  amounted to a breach 
of the agreed  investment mandate and secondly, whether ASC failed to provide the service it
should have done in terms of managing  the portfolio. I acknowledged that there  wasnt
an issue in the complaint  about sharing of information about performance  of the portfolio or
about reviews. An ASC manager was in place and quarterly reviews  were provided. It also
wasnt disputed that poor performance of the SIA Fund was openly discussed.  Both the 
adviser and Mrs W also received annual statements and could access information about
performance of the portfolio online.
Ref: DRN42925613The SIA Fund
I considered the information from the time. In the proposal document,  it was recorded that
Mrs W was looking  to invest for 3-5 years and had already been  identified  as a medium-low
risk investor where:
you are prepared to accept a moderate amount of risk over your time horizon. You want  to
protect the value of your investments but you want them  to grow as well. Under  normal
circumstances you would  not expect your investments  to fall and rise sharply in value. You
accept that, in the longer  term a higher  level of risk may result in higher returns.
The personalised proposal document  of February  2015 described the portfolio as a,
portfolio  of global equities and corporate  bonds, with additional diversification via the SLI
SIA Fund.  For Mrs Ws risk appetite, it gave an example of asset allocation  within  the
portfolio of 15.8% bonds, 50.5% equities, 32.7% in the SIA Fund  (volatility  management) and
1% in cash. The SIA Fund was as defined  as, a simple and efficient way of delivering
institutional-grade strategies into your portfolios  and helps you cope with market volatility
and examples were  given  of the currency hedging  and investment strategies likely to be
deployed within the fund. The aim of the fund was to, reduce the overall volatility  of the
portfolio and smooth investment  returns,  which was consistent with Mrs Ws understanding
that it was to provide some protection to the investments.
I had also seen the presentation pack which formed the basis  of a presentation  about  the
proposal. A page  dedicated to the SIA Fund was at the end of the slide pack,  which stated:
The Strategic Investment  Allocation  Fund is designed to be used as part of a strategic
approach to individual client wealth objectives and should not be considered as a standalone
investment.
The fund is designed  to generate an absolute return when  viewed  with other  assets in the
client's portfolio.  As a result, if other assets  in the portfolio are performing well, this fund may
not produce a positive  return.
The use of derivatives in the fund may result in increased volatility in the funds price.
Due to the leveraged nature of derivatives, gains and losses can be greater than associated
with traditional investment  instruments.
The fund will have the ability to hold short derivative  positions. This means  that the fund will
not necessarily follow  market trends i.e. if stock markets rise the fund may not do so at the
same rate, or at all.
The slide pack also contained a generic risk warning that the value of investments could go
down as well as up and past performance was not a guide to future performance.
ASC said that Mrs W should therefore  have been  aware that the SIA fund held strategies
which were different to traditional equity and fixed interest holdings also held in the portfolio.
They said that, The benefit of this is that when equity markets fall, and fall badly, the SIA
fund should cushion the blow.  Recent performance does also tell us however, that when
equity markets are very strong, the SIA Fund will be weaker. Without the SIA Fund, the
portfolio would have been  like many  other  traditional  portfolios, with greater level of risk than
we understand  you were  willing to take.
Whilst ASC said the purpose of the fund was to counterbalance the portfolio to reduce
Ref: DRN42925614volatility when more  traditional investments werent performing, I was mindful that the type of
investments within  the SIA Fund  coupled with the equity exposure might have exposed  
Mrs W to more risk than the proposal  outlined for her. But as I had explained  at the outset, I 
was not considering here whether the investment  was suitable for Mrs Ws needs.
It was clear from the contemporaneous reviews and correspondence, that the portfolio did 
not perform as expected and the SIA Fund did not operate as had been anticipated. I didnt 
doubt that Mrs W was disappointed with the results. ASC acknowledged that the SIA Fund 
hampered the positive returns from the equity  and fixed interest  funds. However, the losses  
since inception fell within the tolerance for a medium low risk investment, invested for the 
medium term (standing at 1.96% as at September 2020).  I had also seen that no guarantees 
were made as to performance and the risk of the SIA Fund underperforming when  other 
investments were performing well was explained from the outset  in the 2015 information, set 
out above.
The annual reports from 2015,  2016, 2017  and 2018  showed  that the split of assets 
remained broadly  in line with the example given in the proposal. The strategies discussed 
within the reports were also broadly aligned to the information  given  in the proposal 
document and I had seen that poor performance within  the SIA fund was discussed. By mid-
2018 ASC took active  steps  to reduce Mrs Ws exposure to the SIA Fund, dropping  it to 
around 18% of the overall portfolio  and to 17.2% by March 2019, by which  time earlier 
losses had begun to be recouped. I had seen that the overall  value of the portfolio increased  
further in 2020.
Conclusion
I hadnt seen anything to show that the strategies deployed by ASC in using the SIA Fund
and the subsequent steps taken to reduce exposure to that fund in 2018,  were anything
other than the legitimate exercise of commercial judgement  in managing  a portfolio. It was a
relevant factor that Mrs W selected discretionary management, so it was for ASC to make
the decisions about how to invest the funds. The fact that the risk of underperformance of a
particular fund materialised, did not automatically  mean that ASC did anything wrong. In
the absence of any evidence that ASC mismanaged the portfolio  and the performance of
the portfolio and the SIA Fund alone wasnt evidence of this - I was unable to say that ASC
had done anything wrong in overall  management of the portfolio.
And even  if I thought  that ASC had managed  the portfolio above the risk level in the
mandate, I couldnt  fairly say now that Mrs W would have  done anything different. Thats
because Mrs W maintained her investment in the portfolio despite regular unfavourable
reviews with ASC.
Both parties  have received my provisional  decision.  ASC have not provided any further 
information. Those acting  on behalf  of Mrs W have expressed her disappointment at the 
change in outcome  and the financial implications this decision has. No additional 
submissions or evidence has been provided  about  the merits of the complaint.
I have now considered matters to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42925615I dont underestimate  Mrs Ws disappointment with the outcome in my provisional  decision 
and I apologise  for the time it has taken  for this outcome to be reached. Id like to reassure 
Mrs W that I have  independently reviewed the complaint, giving it careful consideration, but 
Im not persuaded that there is any new information  which changes my decision.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs W, but for the reasons  set out above,  I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
Ive noted that Mrs Ws representative  says funds  werent withdrawn earlier because of 
advice given by our service. But Ive seen that our investigator did explain to Mrs Ws 
representative that we would be able to consider the complaint even if funds were  
transferred. I think its helpful to explain that we arent an advisory  service,  it was for 
Mrs W to decide where to invest her funds  and Ive noted that she had an independent 
financial adviser at the time. To be clear, whether or not Mrs W transferred her funds earlier  
doesnt make a material difference to the outcome as it is my primary finding  that ASC didnt 
do anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4292561