K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage in 1996.  
background
Ms R took out PPI alongside a mortgage to cover her monthly mortgage repayments in the 
event that she couldnt  work as a result  of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms R disagrees. 
Mainly she complains that Nationwides advisor  recommended that she have the insurance - 
and that when Ms R said she didnt want  it the advisor made it clear to Ms R that she had to 
buy the PPI to get the mortgage.  
Ms R also told us that PPI wasnt something she wanted or needed as she had other  ways  
she couldve  paid the mortgage for as long as the PPI wouldve paid.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what  Ms R has told us she recalls 
about the sale. So what she says isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  her 
complaint about  the way she says Nationwide mis-sold her this PPI. I have to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely. 
Ms Rs mortgage application included a section headed: 
UNEMPLOYMENT , ACCIDENT  AND SICKNESS  PROTECTION.  
I can see that there are Yes and No boxes next to where it asks: Do you want 
PaymentGuard? (this is what Nationwide Building Society called its PPI). So I think Ms R 
wouldve seen this and understood that having PPI was optional. 
The Yes box has been ticked. She couldve ticked the No box if she hadnt wanted  PPI  
this is left blank  on the form that Ms R completed. 
She also applied  to have some  extra  cover   again  the Yes  box is ticked to have this added  
on, rather than choosing the No box instead if Ms R hadnt wanted  this.
Ms R has also answered questions to check that she was eligible for the policy.  Shes 
indicated the type of cover she wanted.  
Ms R signed  the declaration at the end of the completed application confirming  that the 
information on the form was correct. So in my view it shows  shed decided to have PPI, 
knowing she had a choice.
Ref: DRN44186182I dont know what Nationwide said during that meeting. Ms R says she was told her 
application wouldnt be successful  unless she agreed to have the PPI. And thats possible. 
But I think the paperwork she completed  made  it clear that it was up to Ms R to say if she 
wanted to take out PPI. And on balance I think its likely she knew she had a choice   even if 
Nationwides representative may have encouraged her to have it.
Its evident that when Ms R met with Nationwides financial advisor  around  a week or so after 
completing her mortgage application, Ms R made it clear that she didn't want any of the 
financial products  that the financial advisor  mentioned. But this isnt a reason for me to 
uphold her complaint.  The record of that discussion indicates that Ms R told the advisor that 
making provision for what would happen if she couldnt work owing to serious illness  wasnt  
important to her. So its unsurprising that the document  records that the advisor  made no 
recommendations to Ms R about  cover  options that would  provide protection for her if she 
was unable to work.  And looking at the report I think this meeting was a general  review of 
Ms Rs financial  position   not a discussion specifically  about protection  for her prospective 
mortgage.
I cant fairly say that Ms R was unfairly  pressured by the advisor into taking out PPI when 
shed already applied to have it before the review meeting with Nationwides  financial 
advisor. And as for the earlier  meeting,  Ms R would've been  able to see from looking at the 
mortgage application she completed that it was up to her say what, if any, PPI she wanted to 
have. 
On balance, I find that the PPI she indicated she wanted was added  to her mortgage  
account because  she requested it  knowing it was optional. 
Nationwide told us it didn't recommend the policy  to Ms R. And I dont  think  its likely that 
Nationwide advised  Ms R personally to take out PPI. But this isnt something I need  to make 
a decision about  because I dont think a PPI recommendation wouldve been unsuitable 
looking at what I've seen and been  told by Ms R about her situation at the time. 
She was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
Ms Rs sick pay entitlement through  work  was 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months'  
half pay. But this doesnt mean PPI wasnt suitable  for her. The policy  wouldve paid out a 
benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness claim. So the 
policy covered her mortgage repayments  (and paid some extra)  for longer than Ms R told us 
she wouldve received  full sick pay from her employer if she couldnt  work  and it wouldve 
been paid in addition to any work benefits.  So I think the policy couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time  especially if Ms R mightve had extra  costs as a result of being off 
work as a result of illness  or disability,  and bearing  in mind she wouldve been on half pay 
only after 6 months  off sick. 
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. The policy  couldve also paid out for up 
to 12 months at a time if Ms R lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ms R mentioned during the financial  planning review having  a much smaller  amount of 
savings than the amount shes recently mentioned to us. I wouldnt reasonably expect Ms R 
to remember details  like this after so long and I think that the information she provided to 
Nationwide about  her savings at the time is more likely to be correct. 
Ref: DRN44186183In any event, I dont know  if Ms R wouldve always had savings she wouldve been able to 
rely on if shed needed  to make a claim as circumstances can change. But if she did, having  
PPI wouldve  ensured any such savings were left intact for the future.
Ms R said she could've relied on family if she couldnt  work. But relying on someone  else to 
help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
She also mentioned  having life insurance   and I can see details of an endowment  policy 
documented in the record of the financial  planning  review. But this provided a different sort 
of cover and paid out in different circumstances to the PPI. So this doesnt affect my decision 
on whether PPI was mis-sold. 
Overall, I think the policy couldve been useful  to her. 
Given her circumstances,  I can understand why Ms R wouldve wanted  to take advantage of 
the benefits PPI offered her. She was borrowing a large sum for a long time, secured on her 
home. Having PPI meant that Ms R could be sure shed always be able to keep up the 
monthly repayments in order to protect her home.  I think  that wouldve been an important 
consideration at the time  even if shes now forgotten this. 
Its possible some of the information  Nationwide gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Ms R was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think more information  about policy  exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference  to her decision to take it out.  
The PPI cost was mentioned  in the mortgage  offer Nationwide sent Ms R so she wouldve 
had an idea of the likely  cost. And she seems to have been happy to pay this at the time as 
she bought an additional amount of monthly  benefit on top of the minimum needed to cover  
her mortgage monthly repayments. As this was a policy  that Ms R paid for each month, she 
couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without any further cost if she hadnt wanted to pay 
for it. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Ms R still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if shed been better  informed as it gave  her 
useful protection  in her particular situation. I dont think  better  information  wouldve stopped  
her buying  it.
On balance, I dont  find that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Ms R has said in response to the adjudicators view. For the 
reasons Ive set out, these points dont  change my decision. So Nationwide  doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms R about  that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell 
Ms R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN44186184Ms R has also mentioned shes unhappy about other insurance that Nationwide sold her at 
the same  time. My decision just concerns her complaint about the PPI. If Ms R wants to 
pursue a complaint that other insurance was mis-sold to her then she first needs to refer this 
to Nationwide.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Ms R hasnt sent me any further comments.
Nationwide has confirmed  its view that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that affect my overall  view,  I still think its fair not to uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Ms R any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4418618