K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building  Society  wont close his account because he wasnt 
able to provide  details  of his previous address. 
background
Mr F lives abroad  and contacted Nationwide to arrange closure of his savings account as it 
only has £0.04 in it. Mr F needed to amend  his address with Nationwide first so sent in a 
form to do that. 
Mr F then spoke  with Nationwide over the phone and it asked him to confirm a previous 
address as a security  question. Mr F says he doesnt remember  his previous addresses  and 
wasnt able to give Nationwide  the information  it asked  for. 
Mr F complained and Nationwide said he had the option of visiting a branch to complete the 
address change and close his account.  But Mr F doesnt live the UK so doesnt have access  
to a branch.  And hes said he cant recall his previous  addresses  so isnt able to answer  
Nationwides security  questions. He went on to refer his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr Fs concerns  but didnt agree that Nationwide  had acted unfairly 
by asking Mr F security questions or refusing to close  his account. Mr F has asked to appeal  
the complaint  so its been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the amount of money in Mr Fs account is small and I understand why he 
wants to close it. Ive considered whether, given the account only has £0.04  in it, Nationwide 
should take the step of closing  it without further  information from Mr F. But, having done so, I 
think Nationwides acting  reasonably by asking  Mr F security questions.
I also dont think the nature  of the questions  Nationwides asked are unreasonable.  Its 
asked Mr F to confirm a previous address hes held and I think  thats information Nationwide  
can reasonably  expect customers to provide. Mr Fs told us he doesnt know his previous 
address but if he wants to arrange  closure of his account hell need to do that in line with 
Nationwides processes. In this case, that means  providing answers  to the security  questions 
it asks. 
Mr F doesnt live in the UK so I can see he wont be able to visit a branch. But I dont think  
that means Nationwides treated him unfairly. And I think the alternative option to answer  
security questions is reasonable.  
In order for Mr F to close his savings account he needs to update his address. And in order  
to update his address Mr F needs to answer Nationwides  security questions. I havent found 
that Nationwides acted unfairly by asking Mr F to confirm a previous address as part of its 
security controls so Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN42195492my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4219549