K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the service of Towergate Underwriting Group  Limited in 
administering his specialist vehicle insurance policy. 
References to Towergate Underwriting Group Limited include all its agents.
background
Mr H complained that his emails werent  answered  and that the correct number of vehicles 
werent listed on his renewal invitation.  
Towergate didnt  think it had done anything  wrong. Mr H disagreed  and brought his 
complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Towergate needed to do anything to put things 
right. Mr H didnt agree  so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mr H first told Towergate on 18 March 2018 he sold one of his vehicles  and bought a new 
one. But crucially that he didnt want to provide the value  of the new vehicle in case it 
increased its premium and he wanted to delay the necessary change  on his policy  until his 
renewal in May 2018. I can see Towergate responded to this email on 20 March 2018  
advising Mr H he needed to use the correct inbox so it could deal with his email. It also tried 
to phone him that day to discuss his issues. I consider this was a timely response  to the 
issue Mr H raised  in this email. 
Following Mr H chasing Towergate on 21 March 2018, Towergate responded that same day, 
again advising Mr H to use the right inbox. I consequently dont think Towergate  delayed 
here either.
Towergate in any event advised  Mr H that his change of vehicle would levy an £25 admin 
fee. It also requested  confirmation of the vehicle Mr H said he had sold as that would need to 
be removed from his policy.  I consider it was right and correct for Towergate  to seek  to 
remove from cover any vehicle,  which  Mr H had sold, as obviously Towergate would no 
longer cover  that vehicle. Further as the investigator explained there  were  then multiple  
emails between Mr H and Towergate with Towergate trying  to get confirmation from Mr H so 
it could remove the relevant  vehicle. Sadly,  Mr H just ended up not responding.
He then raised a complaint on 27 March that Towergate hadnt responded to his email of 23 
March. Towergate  contacted Mr H that day and resolved this issue.
Therefore I consider  Towergate has responded to the emails Mr H believed were  
outstanding and I dont think it needs  to anything more.
Mr H then believed his renewal invite of 24 April 2018 should have listed six vehicles but it 
only listed four. But Mr H had previously told Towergate on 31 March  that he had sold a 
second vehicle.  He said he had replaced  with another vehicle  but again he was concerned 
about the admin charge.  Towergate explained also on 31 March  that both vehicles were  
Ref: DRN49098262removed and this was what his renewal invite would  show. But crucially it explained that 
when Mr H got his renewal invite he was to contact  it to put the two replacement  vehicles on 
cover then. 
So Towergate didnt  do anything wrong  with its renewal  invite  as it has already explained this 
to Mr H previously. 
Mr H then complained  that the overall  customer service from Towergate was very poor. Ive 
seen no evidence of that though. Ive simply seen evidence showing that Towergate 
responded adequately  and in a timely fashion to all of Mr Hs issues and it clearly explained 
what the situation would be on his renewal  invite. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4909826