K822xcomplaint
Mr W and others complain about HSBC UK Bank Plcs Safeguard  procedures to verify their 
identities and addresses,  and related issues.
background
Mr W, his wife and their five adult children all have a joint account  with HSBC in the United 
Kingdom, although they all live abroad. Mr W represents them all in this complaint.  Mr W 
says that in 2017 and 2018 HSBC made repeated requests to each of them for evidence of 
their identities and addresses, and that as a result  they each had to spend  money  on having 
public notaries verify copies of their passports. He says the process took months  as HSBC 
did not accept  the evidence  submitted and asked for it again.  Meanwhile they were unable to 
make international transactions on the account,  which in effect deprived them of access  to 
their money. In the end, Mr W and his wife travelled to the UK at considerable cost to visit a 
UK branch of the bank  in person, in order to resolve  the matter.  He complains that the whole 
thing was a protracted ordeal, and he would like their expenses to be refunded.
In addition, Mr W also complains that the whole thing was the result of HSBC  Bank Plc 
becoming HSBC UK Bank Plc in 2017.  He says the account was transferred from one entity 
to the other without  his permission, and the account should have been transferred to HSBC 
UKs counterpart in his country  of residence instead. Finally, he says that in March  2018 
HSBC phoned  him at 3am (three times), and the calls each lasted for an hour,  because  
HSBC took no account  of the fact that he lived in another time zone.
HSBC said it had no choice but to comply  with regulations and with ring-fencing laws.  
However in August 2018 it paid Mr W £100 for some of his postal expenses.
One of our investigators  considered this complaint, but other than recommending  
compensation for the 3am phone calls, he did not uphold it. He said HSBC was entitled to 
ask for the documents it had asked for, and its customers would normally bear the expense 
of providing them. HSBC hadnt told Mr W to travel  to the UK. HSBC  had had no choice but 
to comply with ring-fencing laws. So he didnt think HSBC should have to pay any 
compensation, except  for the late calls,  which he said must have been  stressful.  But in a 
second decision, he did not refer to the calls at all, and simply said that he did not uphold the 
complaint. Later, a second investigator  reconsidered  this complaint, but she agreed with her 
predecessor that HSBC didnt have to do anything.  Mr W asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. I wrote a provisional decision  which  read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr W has made  numerous  points  in 
support of this complaint. But my decision  focuses  on what I consider are the central issues.  
I have read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
HSBC was obliged  to comply with the ring-fencing laws. The account  was a UK account, so 
it couldnt have  been transferred to the HSBC company in Mr Ws country  of residence. If he 
wanted to have an HSBC account  there,  he would have had to open a new account there in 
Ref: DRN48537632the normal way. Even  if that had happened, the overseas bank would still have had to carry 
out similar or identical checks. Mr W complains that HSBC didnt tell him that his account  
had been moved  to a new corporate  entity, but I dont agree that it had to, nor can I see that 
not doing so caused  any impact on how the account  was administered. The checks would 
still have been  necessary.  They  were  nothing to do with the ring-fencing anyway, as the 
checks actually pre-date it: I have seen two letters HSBC wrote to Mr W as long ago as 2016 
about the checks.
It seems  that the reason  HSBC made  repeated requests for evidence of its customers 
identities and addresses was because  the evidence that was originally sent was not 
acceptable. I wont set out a comprehensive  list of every instance  here; I will just give three 
examples. One of Mr Ws children was asked for a copy of her drivers licence, but instead 
she sent a copy  of an identity card. His wife sent a copy of her drivers licence, but the 
address on it did not match the address the bank had recorded on the account  
(Mr and Mrs W had moved). Mr W himself temporarily updated his address  on the account to 
a UK address when he travelled to the UK, but that caused a problem because  his country of 
residence now no longer  matched the country in which he had declared he was resident for 
tax purposes.  So on 20 September 2018 HSBC wrote to him asking him to start again.
So I think that the repeated requests for evidence could have been avoided if HSBC  had 
been provided with the evidence it had asked for the first time, and if everyone had updated  
their contact details each time they moved.  I dont think this is evidence  of a mistake  by 
HSBC. I would expect  the cost of providing the required  information to be borne by 
customers. I think the matter could  have been  resolved  without a trip to the UK, and HSBC 
didnt tell Mr W to travel,  so I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to require HSBC to 
refund those expenses.
HSBC still needs  to speak to three of the account  holders  on the phone.  It will not be 
possible to conduct  international  transactions until that happens. I dont know why it hasnt 
happened yet, but the investigator has made all three account  holders aware  of what they 
have to do. I note that one of the children replied to the investigator  to arrange a time to 
speak to HSBC, instead  of replying to HSBC directly. I emphasise that HSBC needs  to 
speak to each  of them directly and not via an intermediary.
The only part of this complaint I am currently minded to uphold is the part about  phoning  
Mr W at 3am local time, three times. That is clearly poor service, and I am minded  to order  
HSBC to pay Mr W £150 for that.
responses to my provisional  findings
HSBC accepted my provisional decision.  Mr W did not. He said that HSBC  had told his wife 
that she had to go to a branch in the UK to sign a new signature mandate,  the old one 
having been lost by the bank. He said this request had been made verbally, and so he had 
nothing in writing  about it. He also said that HSBC had promised him in writing  that it would 
pay £100 to each of the account  holders, to cover  the expenses of obtaining  notarised  
copies of their passports  and posting them to HSBC in the UK.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48537633I asked HSBC about the matters raised  by Mr W. HSBC confirmed that Mrs W did sign a 
new signature mandate during her visit to the UK, but denied that she would have been told 
to travel to the UK to do it. HSBC  said that Mrs W could  have  done  that at an overseas 
branch, and then that branch would have sent her signature to HSBC in the UK. Mr W 
denied that this was possible, because HSBC in the UK and HSBC  in his country of 
residence no longer  have  anything to do with each other.
On the balance of probabilities, I do not think that it is likely that HSBC told Mrs W to travel  to 
the UK especially to renew her signature  mandate. I think  that for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, although I accept  that HSBC in the UK and HSBC in the country where  Mr W lives 
are separate corporate entities, I dont think it is plausible that they do not ever communicate 
with each other. I accept  that Mrs W could  have given her signature in a branch in her 
country of residence, and that the branch would have  sent that to HSBC  in the UK. That 
would be normal banking  practice.
Secondly, Mr W told us in one of his earliest  communications that the reason they returned 
to the UK was actually to close their account. Thirdly, he told us in another  email that we 
return to the UK periodically. So I think it is likely that they went  to a UK branch to sign a 
new signature mandate because they were  already  in the UK anyway, not because that was 
the sole or original  purpose of their travel to the UK. Fourthly, there  is no written evidence  
that HSBC told them  to travel to the UK for that reason, and I dont think  it is likely  that a 
major bank would tell its customer to fly to another country just in a phone call and not in 
writing. Its a lot to ask. So I dont  think it would be fair to tell HSBC to pay for their flights.
I have seen a letter in which HSBC asked Mr W and his family  to provide evidence of the 
expenses they incurred in sending notarised identification documents  to HSBC in the UK, so 
that HSBC could reimburse  them.  It is not in dispute  that HSBC  made  two payments of £100 
each for that reason.  I have seen evidence that Mr W sent HSBC evidence  of what this had 
cost him, and that the total came to somewhat less than £100. HSBC rounded up its 
compensation to £100 and paid him that. HSBCs letter invited the rest of the account 
holders to provide similar evidence  individually, but when I asked HSBC if such  further  
evidence had been provided, it said it had not received any. I therefore cant fault HSBC  for 
not making further payments. But HSBC  will probably pay these expenses if the rest of the 
account holders  send  receipts for their expenses (and they can always bring another 
complaint if, on sending such evidence, HSBC does  not refund their expenses, as this would 
be new evidence). However, as things  currently  stand,  HSBC has done nothing wrong in this 
regard.
For the above reasons, I am not persuaded to change my mind from what I wrote  in my 
provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr W 
£150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020. If he rejects it, then he will not be bound  by it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4853763