K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  declined his health  insurance claim and 
that it didnt take his medical condition seriously.
background
Mr L is the beneficiary of a private  medical insurance scheme. In mid 2017 Mr L told AXA 
hed been diagnosed with alopecia areata. Medical information that Ive seen says the 
condition is hair loss probably caused  by a problem with the immune  system. Mr L asked 
AXA if he was covered by the policy. 
The next day AXA emailed Mr L saying it needed to know what primary care and tests  his 
GP had done. Shortly after Mr L sent AXA receipts  for treatment  hed already had abroad to 
try to prevent his loss of hair and speed up regrowth.
AXA declined the claim. Its final response  letter to Mr L detailed why the treatment he 
claimed for wasnt covered by the policy terms. In brief: Mr L hadnt been  referred  for 
treatment by a GP; there was no cover  for treatment  that wasnt medically necessary or that 
could be considered a personal  choice; the policy  covered acute conditions (defined by the 
policy) and as there was no cure for alopecia areata it wasnt  an acute condition;  there was 
no cover  for medication which could  be prescribed by a GP or bought without prescription; 
there was no cover  for treatment received outside  the UK.
Mr L complained to us. Hed got a letter in June 2018 from AXA saying  it may not have 
handled his claim  correctly. He was unhappy AXA said his alopecia  treatment was for 
cosmetic reasons. He thought AXA was trivialising the matter by referring  to him having hair 
loss and failed  to take into account the effect  of the condition on him given his personal 
circumstances. He told us he had one of his treatments in the UK. Mr L wants AXA to pay 
the claim for all the treatments.
Our investigator explained that AXAs June 2018  letter to Mr L was about it not providing him 
with referral rights to our service, which it had now done. She thought AXA had fairly 
declined Mr Ls claim.  
Mr L disagrees and wants  an ombudsmans decision. He said the Alopecia  Society  had told 
him alopecia  areata  wasnt premature  balding.  It had referred  him to a resource which said 
that for mild,  patchy alopecia areata, with less than 50% hair loss, injections and cream  may 
help. Mr L said as his hair loss was less than 50% he did the right thing in taking  various 
treatments. He said the GPs asked him to wait but his hair grew back  quickly  because  he 
had different treatments  including  cryo-treatment.
Ref: DRN44000232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
AXAs service 
Our investigator has correctly explained that AXAs letter to Mr L of 22 June 2018 was about 
it not giving  Mr L referral rights to our service when  it originally declined  his claim in 2017. 
The letter didnt say that AXA had been wrong  to decline the claim. When  Mr L contacted 
AXA after he got the letter  it sent a final response  letter giving reasons for the decline and 
giving him referral rights to us. Mr L complained to us and weve  considered the complaint. 
He hasnt been disadvantaged by AXA not giving him referral rights  in its 2017 decline of 
claim letter.
Mr L was very distressed  about the effect  of his alopecia  areata, which  I can understand 
particularly because he was getting  married. But I dont think  AXA trivialised his condition.
Ive looked at general medical information about  the condition  and alopecia is the medical  
term for hair loss. So I think AXA was reasonable to refer to Mr L having hair loss. 
AXAs correspondence says that Mr Ls particular diagnosis is caused  by a problem with the 
immune system  and that it is more  common among  people with other autoimmune 
conditions. Theres no evidence that AXA thought  Mr L had premature balding, as he seems 
to suggest. Im satisfied  that AXA has taken into account Mr Ls representations that his 
condition is linked to an auto-immune condition.
claim
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think its reasonable for AXA to 
reject Mr Ls claim.  
AXA referred to lots of policy clauses to decline the claim. AXA just has to show  me that it 
can fairly rely on one of the policy terms to decline the claim. 
The policy is clear there  has to be a GP referral that Mr L needs specialist treatment. Ive not 
seen persuasive  evidence that Mr Ls GP referred him. AXA asked Mr L for the GP referral 
letter and it wasnt provided which suggests there wasnt one. Mr L says his GPs told him to 
wait to see what happened with his hair loss, which further suggests there was no referral. 
I think its more likely than not that there was no GP referral. If there was no referral AXA 
doesnt need to pay any of the claims.
Even if there  was a GP referral the standard policy is also clear AXA doesnt cover treatment 
Mr L received outside the UK. Thats a usual limitation for standard  health  insurance. The 
receipts Ive seen are for treatment abroad, which isnt covered if Mr L has the standard  
policy. 
Ref: DRN44000233Even if Mr L had the travel cover option under  the policy the treatment abroad isnt covered 
as AXA didnt agree  to cover before Mr L had the treatment abroad.  AXA reasonably 
declined to pay the treatment Mr L had abroad.
Mr L says he had one treatment in the UK. Ive seen no evidence of that but he did tell AXA 
he had treatments worth 3,000 to 5,000  (I understand  he means  pounds  sterling) so he may 
well have had more  than one treatment.
If Mr L did have treatment  in the UK, even if there was a GP referral, I dont think AXA needs  
to pay for that treatment.  The policy is also clear that it covers  acute rather  than chronic 
conditions. 
A chronic  condition is defined as:
a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following  characteristics:  
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups or tests
It needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms 
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
It continues indefinitely 
It has no known cure 
It comes  back or is likely to come back. 
Whereas an acute condition is defined as 
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment that aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately  before suffering the disease,  
illness or injury, or that leads to your full recovery.
Unfortunately AXA says theres no cure for alopecia areata. Thats  supported by the 
information available from the National Institute for Health and Care  Excellent (NICE) which  
says that whilst various medical  treatments may help to induce hair regrowth they cant  cure 
the underlying  condition  and future  episodes of hair loss may occur. So I think  its 
reasonable for AXA to conclude there is no cure for the condition and that treatment for 
Mr Ls condition isnt covered by the policy.
Mr L may say his treatment was for his hair loss symptoms rather than the condition itself.  
Even if thats  right I still dont think AXA needs to cover the treatment. The policy  is clear  that 
AXA will only cover  treatment which is medically  necessary.  Theres  no cover  for 
treatment that is not medically necessary or that can be considered a personal choice.
There is no medical evidence that treatment was medically necessary to cure or relieve the 
symptoms of Mr Ls alopecia areata. The recent information Mr L has provided says certain 
treatment may help for his less than 50% hair loss but thats not the same as saying 
treatment is medically necessary. Theres no supporting evidence  to show  it was medically 
necessary in Mr Ls case. 
Im pleased for Mr L that his hair did regrow. He believes that was due to the treatment. But 
as there  is no medical evidence the treatment was medically necessary  AXA can decline the 
claim for that reason as well.
Ref: DRN44000234As I think  there  are several reasons why AXA can fairly decline Mr Ls claim I dont need to 
consider if it can also decline the claim for the other reasons its given.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4400023