K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited trading as Future Finance 
gave her an incorrect settlement figure for her loan.
background
Mrs W took out a loan with Future Finance and asked for a settlement  figure.  She says she 
was told the figure to settle was £3,399.67, and paid that balance  off on 13 September 2018. 
Mrs W says she was then contacted by Future Finance and told there  was still an 
outstanding balance of £1,219.04. She says thats unfair and Future Finance shouldnt  be 
able to pursue  her or bully her for that balance. And she uses the example  of a shopkeeper, 
having no recourse  to ask a person buying an item from a shop for more  money  after a sale 
in the event of a mistake over the advertised  price.
Future Finance  accepts  that Mrs W contacted  it about the settlement figure but it made  a 
mistake about the amount. It says it contacted  Mrs W a couple of days  later when it realised 
a mistake had been made. Future  Finance has offered to reduce the balance  outstanding as 
a gesture of goodwill  and says its attempted to work with Mrs W to resolve matters. It says 
its regrettable a mistake was made but that cant justify  the loan balance  being written off.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought  Future Finance had dealt 
fairly with it. She accepted a mistake had been  made but thought under the loan terms and 
conditions Mrs W was still liable to repay the loan balance. She also thought Future Finance 
offer to reduce the loan balance was fair and that it had acted quickly to tell Mrs W about  its 
error.
Mrs W doesnt accept that view and says the call about the settlement figure constitutes a 
verbal contract and so she shouldnt be liable for Future Finances mistake or the 
outstanding balance. She also says Future Finance has changed the terms of its offer but 
says she will accept compensation of £250 to avoid her issuing court  proceedings.
I looked at this complaint and decided I wanted  further information  about the gesture of 
goodwill offer,  as I took the view it only applied if Mrs W repaid the outstanding balance in 
full. I asked Future Finance to consider if a broadly similar gesture of goodwill of £100 be 
made, if Mrs W decided  to continue making monthly  repayments rather  than pay off the loan 
in full. Future Finance has agreed  to reduce the loan balance  by £100 if monthly repayments 
are made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Future Finance  did make a mistake  about  the loan settlement figure but has acted 
fairly by making what I think  is a fair and reasonable compensation  offer in the form of a 
gesture of goodwill. I realise Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how 
strongly she feels about whats happened. I also accept her point that she shouldve been  
able to rely on the information given by Future Finance and that shes been caused  
inconvenience in trying to sort matters out.
There is no doubt here that Mrs W was given  the wrong information about the loan 
settlement figure when  she called Future Finance. I appreciate  Mrs W frustration in being 
told some  days  later that there was an outstanding balance  to be paid. But the crucial 
question Mrs W would  like answered is- if its fair and or legal for Future Finance to request 
Ref: DRN45196392that balance from her. In doing  so I should explain that our role is to decide a complaint 
informally taking into account all of the evidence. We are not a court and so I cant determine 
if the phone  call constituted a legally  binding contract between  Future  Finance  and Mrs W 
that would  bring  the agreement to an end and prevent Future Finance from perusing the 
outstanding loan balance. And I should  make  clear that although Mrs W has provided  an 
example of a situation she says is relevant, I dont think  it is the same situation  here.  And 
there are many examples of mistakes  being  made that do not mean as in this case an 
outstanding amount owed  should  be written  off.
Im satisfied that although Future Finance made a mistake its acted fairly and reasonably by 
asking Mrs W to repay the money  she owes under  the terms and conditions  of the loan 
agreement. I dont consider it fair that Future Finance should  write off a large amount of 
money, which Mrs W clearly owes it, for what I think,  was a mistake.  But I also think it fair 
and reasonable that Future  Finance should  take into account the level of inconvenience and 
distress its mistake had on Mrs W. And  Im satisfied  that it has now  done  so by making  two 
gesture of goodwill offers that fairly reflect whats taken place here and take account of the 
method Mrs W may wish to use to pay the outstanding balance.
If Mrs W wishes to repay the balance in full then Future Finance has said it will reduce that 
overall balance  by about £100. It cant provide the exact figure because that depends on 
when such a payment  is made.
I can see that Mrs W has continued  to make monthly repayments and in that event Future 
Finance has now said it will reduce the loan balance by £100.
Im satisfied both offers  are fair and reasonable but I will leave it to Mrs W to decide if she 
wishes to accept either. I appreciate that Mrs W may wish to consider alternative methods to 
resolve this complaint and her acceptance of Future  Finances  offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Future Finance Loan Corporation  Limited  trading as Future Finance 
has made fair and reasonable  offers to settle this complaint.  Mrs Ws acceptance  of either  
offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4519639