K820x#14complaint
Mr C (a director)  complains on behalf of his limited company (Company C) that One Saving 
Bank, trading as Kent Reliance (OSB) applied an incorrect  interest rate on Company Cs buy 
to let mortgage resulting in it making overpayments.
background
In January 2018, Company C borrowed £2,140.39 from OSB. It was added onto Company 
Cs existing mortgage.  The loan was interest  only, over a term of 22 years and 2 months and 
was taken on a 5-year fixed rate of 4.39%. However, approximately a year later, Mr C 
noticed that the interest rate being  paid was 5.29% so he contacted OSB to complain.
OSB apologised  for the error, saying that an outdated offer document  had been used when 
setting up the account which resulted in an incorrect interest rate being used. They  said it 
was down to human  error and refunded the £21.86  that Company  C had overpaid.  In 
addition, they offered  £50 as an apology. Mr C didnt think  that this was enough 
compensation to reflect  the seriousness of the error, so brought  the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. He thought that OSB should also pay 
simple interest of 8% on the overpayments that Company C made, on top of what  it had 
already offered. OSB agreed  to this and offered to pay Mr C an additional £10 which more 
than covers this amount.  
Mr C still doesnt feel this is fair outcome. He believes  this doesnt reflect the amount of time 
and effort  he has taken  to bring this complaint forward and doesnt  address the seriousness  
of the situation.  He says that if he hadnt  noticed the error, he wouldve continued to make  
overpayments. As a result,  he has asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  
OSB have accepted that it made  an error  it acknowledged that it inputted an incorrect  interest 
rate onto their system when adding the new borrowing onto Company  Cs buy to let mortgage. It 
apologised, refunded the overpaid  amount,  offered £10 to cover the interest and offered £50 as 
way of apology.  Ive thought about  the impact making the overpayments wouldve had and 
understand how frustrating it has been for Mr C that this error has happened. But given that 
OSB have apologised and put him back in the position that he wouldve been in if the error 
hadnt occurred,  I think that this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
I understand Mr Cs point that he has had to spend  time dealing with this complaint. But 
there will always be some inconvenience when things go wrong. We wouldnt generally 
recommend compensation for having  to complain  and Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably depart from this approach in this case given the impact of the matter on Mr C.
I also acknowledge Mr Cs comments regarding the seriousness of his complaint against 
OSB. He suggests that the fact the investigator hasnt suggested  a harsher punishment  may 
encourage businesses to act irresponsibly in the future. While I appreciate his concerns, this 
service isnt a regulator. Nor is it appropriate  for our service to punish a business for 
Ref: DRN49823152mistakes it makes. General issues about  how the banking industry works are a matter for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Overall, although I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling  and 
frustration, I think the investigators  proposed resolution of this complaint is fair. And I dont 
think I can reasonably require OSB to do or pay anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Sarah Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4982315