K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the commission paid to Hodge Bakshi Financial Services Limited 
(Hodge Bakshi). She says she didnt agree to pay Hodge Bakshi anything and she wants  it 
to return the commission  its been  paid, with interest.
background
In October  2008, Mrs M signed a form appointing Hodge Bakshi as the servicing  agent  for 
her two pensions held with Provider A. The instruction she signed  had the effect of 
removing any business previously appointed as her servicing agent. Mrs M said she 
signed the form to allow  Hodge Bakshi to obtain  the information  about her pensions  from 
Provider A. She thought  Hodge Bakshi was helping her on a voluntary basis.  She worked 
for a sister company  of Hodge Bakshi.
Later in 2008,  Mrs M took out an annuity through Provider A. Hodge  Bakshi  gave her some 
guidance in relation to her pensions, but did not provide  her with any financial advice. 
Hodge Bakshi accepted that no other ongoing  service arrangement  was put in place 
regarding her pensions.  However, when Provider  A deducted charges  from Mrs Ms pension, 
Hodge Bakshi received commission from Provider  A, in respect of Mrs Ms pension.  
Since 2008, Hodge Bakshi has provided  Mrs M with very little assistance as regards her 
pension, nothing formal.  It says its offered her review meetings, but these havent been 
taken up.
Before the Financial Conduct Authoritys review on charges (pre 2012) commission was 
often paid to advisers  for introducing business to a pension provider. The charge was 
deducted as a provider charge from the customers  pension. The customer wouldnt 
necessarily be told that the provider had agreed  to pay the introducer some  commission. 
Commission would generally  be paid for as long as the investment continued to exist. 
Commission paid in these  circumstances is commonly known as trail commission . 
The FCA has issued guidance on its website setting how to eliminate or reduce trail 
commission charges.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint. He did not consider that Hodge Bakshi had 
done anything  wrong. Whilst sympathetic to Mrs Ms situation,  he concluded that pre 2012, 
it was common practice  for ongoing trail commission to be paid to servicing agents in 
circumstances like this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator and for much the same  reasons.
We have received a number of complaints about trail commission. The changes  made  
following the FCAs review highlight the very things Mrs M is concerned  about  here  the 
lack of transparency  and clear agreement to the payment of commission.
Prior to 2012, it was the case that what Mrs M describes as unfair  was common practice. 
The changes introduced by the FCA, necessitated  a change in behaviour  going forward,  but 
had no retrospective  effect.
Ref: DRN42400852Looking at Mrs Ms situation, in October  2008, Mrs M signed  a form appointing 
Hodge Bakshi as her servicing agent.  She said this was simply to obtain information from her 
pension provider and she understood  there  was no charge  for this service.
When Mrs M transferred the servicing  rights to Hodge Bakshi in 2008, by doing so, and I 
accept without knowing, in effect this was the basis for Provider A paying the commission  to 
Hodge Bakshi going forward. Provider  A and Hodge Bakshi did not have to tell Mrs M about 
this.
Had Mrs M not changed service provider,  she may still have ended  up paying the trail 
commission, but not to Hodge Bakshi,  instead  to the servicing  agent  she used when she first 
set up the pension investment. Alternatively,  if there was no servicing agent, likely the 
provider wouldve still charged her the same, but without having  to pay commission  to 
another business. So, I cant see that Mrs M has lost out financially here.
Like our adjudicator, I understand Mrs Ms concerns. But, I cant fairly uphold  this complaint. 
If I were  to do so I would be applying standards that didnt apply at the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am not upholding  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4240085