K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Having done so, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold to Mr H  Ill explain why. 
Mr Hs recollection is that he applied for the credit card and PPI during a phone call. BoS has 
told us it was an in-branch sale and from the records it has been able to give us I think  this is 
the most  likely method  of sale, even though I can understand why Mr H cant remember the 
details from the time of the sale bearing  in mind how long ago the sale took place.
BoS has been able to give us a copy of the credit card application. I note this is a pre-
populated document and has been  signed  and dated by Mr H. It includes some personal 
details about Mr H such as his address, date of birth, employment details etc. I see there is a 
separate section  entitled Product details followed by two boxes, one of which has a pre-
printed X to take the PPI. I note there is another product offered but this box wasnt  
crossed. Mr H says he was given the form with the pre-printed X. 
But as the whole form was pre-populated, I think it most likely the information given on the 
form was a reflection  of what  was discussed  during the in-branch meeting. I know Mr H 
disagrees with this, but the sale took place a long time ago and I dont have any reason to 
conclude that the BoS representative  didnt discuss the PPI and then print the application to 
reflect what  was discussed  and agreed. So, I think that BoS made  Mr H aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI and that he chose to take it at the time  although I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing  so after so long. 
Ref: DRN40080782BoS has told us it recommended the policy to Mr H. Mr H said that he wasnt  given any 
advice. But as this was an in-branch sale, and Ive found the application form was produced 
after a conversation, I think it most likely  that this was an advised  sale.  This means BoS had 
to check it was right for Mr H. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  
it looks like it was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI. And the PPI could  have  helped with his card repayments for up to ten months for 
each successful unemployment claim Mr H made  and for up to 12 months if he was off work 
sick  which  is longer than Mr Hs sick pay would have lasted (and it would have paid out on 
top of it). So, I think the PPI still gave Mr H useful additional protection. And I havent  seen 
anything to make me think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr H or that its cost made  it 
unsuitable for him. 
Its possible that the information BoS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. Therefore, I have to consider whether I think better information was likely  to have 
changed his mind. Mr H chose to take out the policy  so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And as Ive explained above, it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions  or limitations,  for example he hasnt told us of any pre-existing medical  
conditions, and it would have been  useful  to Mr H if something went wrong. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI was likely to have  put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Mr Hs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But BoS has offered  pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
 so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN40080783my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4008078