K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the service that hes received  from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance,  in connection with the payment of charges  at the end 
of his hire purchase  agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Audi Finance that he 
signed in August 2014. The agreement ended in November  2018 and the car was collected 
from Mr B and inspected by a third party on behalf  of Audi Finance. The inspection  identified 
damage to the car and excess mileage. Audi Finance charged Mr B £994.43 for the damage  
and £1,224.65 for the excess mileage  a total of £2,219.08. He contacted  Audi Finance in 
December 2018  because he said that he wasnt able to pay the charges in full. It said that he 
would need to speak with its collections department and then that it would be passing  the 
debt to a debt collection service because it would  take more than a year for the debt to be 
paid at the rate that Mr B could afford. But there was a delay in the debt being transferred to 
the debt collection  service and Audi Finance sent him arrears letters  and requests for 
payment.
Mr B complained to Audi Finance in February  2019 about the letters  that hed received and it 
offered to pay him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. He wasnt satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that there had 
been a delay of about six weeks  in Audi Finance  passing Mr Bs account to the debt 
collection service and he felt that it should pay £100 to Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience that he was caused by its delay.
Audi Finance says that it agrees with that outcome but Mr B has asked for his complaint to 
be considered  by an ombudsman. He doesnt feel that this is a satisfactory outcome for all 
the stress  and incompetence that has been  caused  to him and his family.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B hasnt disputed the damage or excess  mileage  charges and seems to accept that he 
owed £2,219.08 to Audi Finance. After he received an invoice for those charges he 
contacted Audi Finance and said that he wasnt able to pay the charges in full. He was sent 
an income and expenditure form to complete and he asked it to call him  but that was over 
the Christmas period and he didnt receive the call that hed requested.
The completed income and expenditure form showed that it would take more than a year for 
Mr B to pay the debt at the monthly rate that he could afford  so Audi Finance said that it was 
passing his debt to a debt collection service. But there was a delay of six weeks  in that 
happening.
Audi Finance accepts  that it incorrectly sent arrears letter and requests  for payment to Mr B 
during that period so it offered to pay £50 to him as a gesture of goodwill. Those letters  and 
the service that hes received from Audi Finance will have caused distress and 
Ref: DRN40589692inconvenience to Mr B. I agree with the investigator that £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that distress  and inconvenience.  Im not persuaded that the distress  and 
inconvenience that Mr B has been  caused in these  circumstances justifies a higher amount 
of compensation.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Audi Finance, to pay £100 to Mr B 
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4058969