K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly  declined  his claim for 
the theft of his mobile phone under his travel  insurance policy.
background
Mr D has a Premier  bank account with HSBC. One of the benefits  included with the account 
is worldwide travel insurance cover with Aviva. At the end of 2018 Mr D went on a family 
holiday abroad. Whilst there, he went swimming  with his nine-year-old son. He took his 
wifes mobile phone to the pool with him so that he could take some photos.  
Following their swim, Mr D and his son went into the changing and shower area.  Mr D went  
into a shower cubicle and he took the phone in with him, placing it on a rack in the corner. It 
was in a transparent plastic  cover  to keep it dry. His son finished showering first and called 
to him, saying he felt cold and needed  a towel. Mr D says he stepped out of the shower 
cubicle and the door swung shut behind him. He then walked over to where the towels were  
hanging, picked  one up and then gave  it to his son. Mr D says he then returned to his 
shower cubicle and discovered  that the phone had been stolen. He reported it to staff at the 
swimming pool and also reported  the theft to local police.
Mr D phoned Aviva and explained  what had happened.  He said he wished to register a claim 
under his travel insurance policy. The Aviva representative told Mr D during his initial  call 
that it appeared hed left the phone unattended  and that this meant he wasnt  covered 
under his policy for the loss.
The policy excluded: loss or theft of personal money, baggage, valuables or golf equipment 
which you have deliberately left somewhere that is not in your full view and with no one 
known to you looking after them.
Mr D complained to Aviva, saying it was being  unfair  and that he hadnt deliberately  left his 
phone  but had simply walked  a few steps away  to pick up a towel. He estimated he was 
away from the cubicle  for less than ten seconds.  He added that the shower cubicle  where he 
had put the phone was in his full view,  and that his son had been standing  directly outside 
the cubicle throughout. He reasoned that the theft must have taken place in a split second, 
and somehow neither of them had noticed.
In its final response letter  Aviva confirmed that, in its view, Mr D had left the phone in the 
shower cubicle whilst attending to his son  and that on his return  the phone was missing. 
And it confirmed that in these circumstances it considered the phone had been left 
unattended  and so wasnt  covered  under  his policy. 
Mr D complained to us, saying he feels Aviva  has treated him unfairly and he wants  it to pay 
his claim.
Our investigator felt that when Mr D had left his shower cubicle to assist his son, his phone  
wasnt in his view at all times. She said that, taking into account  that this was in a busy  
location with many tourists present, a thief would have had ample opportunity to steal  the 
phone unhindered.
Ref: DRN41786462Mr D disagreed. He said that the clause Aviva was relying upon to refuse  his claim was very 
vague  and that in any case  it hadnt correctly applied it. This matter has therefore been 
referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I need to decide whether Aviva fairly and reasonably denied the claim, and I think it did.
Aviva declined the claim because it considered that when Mr D walked out of his shower 
cubicle the phone wasnt in his full view and there  was nobody known to him looking after it. 
Mr D has told us that the cubicle was in his full view at all times  and that in any case his 
son was standing directly  outside it.
Ive looked at the photographs which Mr D has provided, which show  the shower  area and 
also the area nearby where the towels are hanging. I can see that the towel  area is in close  
proximity to the shower cubicles. In my view, if Mr D had been within a few feet of the cubicle 
and it had been in his full view all the time,  nobody would have had the opportunity to enter 
the cubicle and steal the phone without him noticing.  And indeed  he would have been in a 
good position to intervene had this occurred.
Mr D also says his nine-year-old  son was standing outside the cubicle throughout  and he 
also didnt notice anything. However  I dont think,  given the circumstances, that a minor 
could ever reasonably  be in a position  to look after it, even if hed realised  the phone  was in 
the cubicle. 
Ive listened to the original telephone  call which Mr D made to Aviva when he first registered 
his claim.  During  the call he explains that when his son asked for his help, he left the phone  
unattended in a cubicle  and walked between 15 and 25 feet to the towel area.  He describes 
the shower area as a very busy place and full of people. The Aviva  agent asks him if he 
was able to see the phone from where he was. Mr D agrees  that he couldnt see it, and he 
also says that he left it.
Mr D then explains that when he returned to the cubicle area with the towel, he was unable  
to tell which cubicle  hed been  in. And he goes on to say that he then realised there was 
another person in his cubicle  so he went into the next one. And he says that when he 
checked back, the phone was gone.
Mr Ds initial  account is very clear  and as this was made soon after the theft took place, I 
feel its likely  to be the most accurate and reliable account. In my opinion its clear that Mr D 
left the phone out of his view whilst  he was distracted. And I think the cubicle itself was also 
out of his view.  This is supported by the fact that he didnt notice when someone else went  
into his cubicle and began  showering.  He only noticed when he returned to the cubicle area 
and was unable  to work out which one hed been  in  and therefore which one hed left his 
phone in. 
Im satisfied the clause  in question is standard in such  policies  and is not inherently  unfair  
either. Also, Aviva has applied it in a way thats  consistent with our longstanding  approach,  
Ref: DRN41786463which takes account of a leading Court of Appeal  case. In Starfire Diamond Rings Ltd v 
Angel [1962]  2 Lloyds Rep. 217, Lord Denning concluded that, for property to be attended, 
there must be someone able to keep it under observation, that is, in a position to observe 
any attempt to interfere  with it, and who is so placed as to have a reasonable prospect of 
preventing any unauthorised interference with it. 
Therefore, its not necessarily a question of the policyholder having to take personal risks to 
intervene in order  to protect property; more that the mere presence of a responsible person 
within sight of the goods might  deter  would-be  thieves.  And in our case, Mr Ds initial 
statements at the point of claim indicate  that, despite his relative proximity to it, the phone 
had been left unattended  both in fact and in law. 
I therefore consider  that Aviva has fairly and reasonably refused his claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the contract to which Mr D agreed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4178646