K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  alongside  her mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1991 Mrs S took out a mortgage with Nationwide. At the same  time she also took out 
MPPI designed to protect her mortgage  payments in the event she couldnt work  through 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy provided  a benefit of the mortgage  amount  at the time of claim as well as an 
additional amount of £600. The total monthly  cost of the policy  was just over £48.
At the time Mrs S was working and told us she was entitled to sick pay of six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay. She also said she had savings  of more than 12 months  of 
her salary  and could have  relied on family  and friends to help her out if things went  wrong. 
She also said she had an existing policy that would  have  helped her out.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. He said there was very little information still 
available because of how long ago things happened. But in summary he concluded  that PPI 
was a compulsory  term of Mrs S mortgage and that she was likely made  aware of this. And 
there was nothing else to indicate shed lost out as a result  of taking out the mortgage  with 
PPI.
Mrs S disagrees. In summary  she says she would never have  paid for PPI if shed known 
about it. And she doesnt remember any discussion about it or importantly agreeing to it. She 
says she had adequate cover elsewhere  including an existing insurance  policy  which would 
have helped her. She disagrees with the adjudicators conclusions that the subsequent  
paperwork including mortgage statements  would  have  alerted her to the existence of PPI. 
She says this was after the fact  she was already  locked in and had no choice by then.
The complaint has therefore been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaint about  PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mrs S complaint.
Id firstly  like to stress  that, while Ive only included a summary of what Mrs S has told us 
about her complaint, Ive carefully read and considered everything shes said in reaching my 
decision. 
I understand Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, but Ive decided to not uphold  her 
complaint. I will explain  my reasons  for reaching this conclusion in detail below.
Mrs S main complaint point as I see it is that she doesnt remember there being any 
discussion about PPI or agreeing to it  she wasnt given a choice. 
Ref: DRN45454632She says had there been, she wouldnt have paid for it. Nationwide  says that in Mrs S 
particular case it made  PPI a condition of the mortgage because of the amount of money  
she was borrowing compared to the value  of her property. It says this would have been  
made clear at the time,  but it no longer has any of the paperwork due to how long ago the 
sale happened and the mortgage  was repaid.
Ive thought about this particular matter carefully.  Firstly I can understand Mrs S cant  recall 
the specifics of a mortgage  meeting  that took place  in 1991  it is after all a long time ago. I 
can also understand that Nationwide no longer  has any of the original paperwork  including  
the mortgage application  due to the time thats passed. The mortgage was taken  out over 
25 years  ago and it ended around 20 years  ago. Businesses are not required to retain  
documents and customer information indefinitely.
What this means is that there is limited  information  for me to consider here. So I need to 
consider what I do have and where  there  are gaps decide things on the balance of 
probabilities  that is what I think most  likely happened in light of the evidence.
What is known from Nationwides  records is that Mrs S borrowed a little over £55,000, which  
was the same figure as the property she was buying  was valued at. So the loan to value 
ratio was 100%. Nationwide says it is because of this that it made taking out PPI a condition  
of the mortgage  it offered Mrs S. 
In my view this isnt surprising. It was not unusual for lenders around this time to make PPI a 
condition of lending  - either where  there was a high loan to value (so a greater perceived  
level of risk to both borrower  and lender) or where  it offered  a special or discounted rate of 
interest to its standard rate.
So in and of itself, I dont consider this practice  unusual. And I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable of Nationwide  to do this. But Nationwide  did have to make  this clear to Mrs S, 
so this is the issue Ive considered.
Documentary evidence  to show whether Nationwide did or not is very limited for the reasons 
Ive already given.  But Nationwide has provided an example copy  of a mortgage application, 
which it says was in use at or around the time Mrs S took out her mortgage.  Looking at this I 
can see there was a specific section that dealt with PPI and at the bottom it said: Please 
note that where  the loan is over 95% of the property value or purchase price,  whichever  is 
lower, Mortgage Payment Cover is compulsory.
I accept this is an example mortgage application. But Mrs S would have completed some  
kind of application  for her mortgage. I think the example application is likely from around the 
same time as Mrs S took out her mortgage and PPI because as I said above,  the practice of 
lending at higher loan to values with the stipulation that PPI was also taken  out was not 
unusual at this time.  So I think  Mrs S mortgage  application was more likely than not the 
same as or similar to the example provided and that it contained  wording (again the same  as 
or similar to the example) about PPI being compulsory for higher than normal  loan to value 
loans.
Following the application  and agreement  to lend process, Mrs S would almost  certainly  have 
been provided with a mortgage offer letter from Nationwide (no longer available)  setting out 
the terms of the lending  it was prepared to make  to her. 
Ref: DRN45454633The issuing of an offer letter was standard industry practice and Im not persuaded that 
something different  happened in Mrs S case.  This allowed Mrs S to review the offer and to 
decide if she wanted to go ahead or not. Im also mindful that a copy of the offer would  also 
have been sent to Mrs S solicitor. 
On balance I think it is more likely  than not that the condition that it was compulsory for Mrs 
S to have  PPI to take up Nationwides offer of lending was contained  within this offer letter.  
This was the document where conditions such as this were set out, so I find it unlikely that 
Mrs S mortgage offer contained  nothing about this and was silent on the matter.  I also think 
that, given the nature  of the transaction Mrs S was entering into she would have read this 
document carefully. And so I think Mrs S was reasonably made aware that she had to have 
PPI to take out Nationwides  mortgage. If she didnt want PPI, she could have  declined  the 
offer from Nationwide and sought a different mortgage elsewhere.
In addition to the above  Im mindful  that Mrs S policy also provided an additional benefit 
amount of £600.  This was on top of the standard benefit level equal to the normal mortgage 
payment amount. This suggests to me that there was a discussion with Mrs S about PPI at 
some point in the mortgage application  process. I find it unlikely  that this additional  amount 
of cover was simply added by Nationwide  without Mrs S knowledge or consent  why add 
an additional  amount and why £600? It seems likely to me that this was chosen by Mrs S for 
a specific reason and after some  careful  thought.  
So overall and after considering the limited evidence available about  a meeting which  
happened over 25 years ago, I find that PPI was a compulsory  feature of Mrs S mortgage 
because of the nature of the borrowing and that she was most likely  made  aware of this at 
the time.  Ive not seen enough  information in this case to persuade  me that something 
different happened.
I dont think Nationwide  provided advice and recommended PPI to Mrs S  Nationwide said 
it didnt and Mrs S hasnt said it did. So as theres no evidence to lead me to conclude it did I 
think this was a non-advised sale. This means Nationwide didnt have to ensure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs S. But it had to give her enough clear and timely information  about the 
PPI  and the mortgage  so she could make  an informed decision  about it.
Ive therefore  considered  this next.
From what  I found above, I find it unlikely  nothing was said at all about PPI. For example I 
think Mrs S would have known something about  its cost; particularly as she chose to include 
an additional  benefit amount, which increased  the cost. It seems  unlikely she would have 
made this decision  to add to the cover without  knowing  something about what it was going to 
cost her each month.
But the evidence  available doesnt  tell me whether Nationwide  did everything it should have 
done, including telling  her clearly about  the policys main features and the significant 
limitations and exclusions  of cover  for example existing medical condition exclusions. 
Nationwide likely sent Mrs S a policy document after the sale concluded, which contained  
this information.  But this doesnt mean Mrs S got all of the information  she needed and in a 
timely manner  she didnt base her decision on the information contained  within this 
document.
Ref: DRN45454634So while Nationwide might well have fairly and reasonably fallen  short of what  was expected 
of it, this doesnt mean Mrs S should automatically get back what  she paid for the policy.  I 
need to go on and consider if and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss as a result  of the things 
done or not done by Nationwide.
And having done so, I dont think Mrs S would  have likely changed her mind about taking 
about the mortgage with PPI had Nationwide done  more  I think  she would still have gone 
ahead because:
Mrs S was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits.
She was employed  and in good health at the time, so she wouldnt have been 
affected by the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover,  which might otherwise 
have put her off.
Mrs S says she had a good level of sick pay, savings and had help available  from 
family she could have relied on. She also told us she had an existing insurance policy 
that wouldve  helped  her out.
Mrs S hasnt been able to provide more  information about the existing policy  shes 
referred to  understandable given  the circumstances. So I havent  seen enough  to 
persuade me that the PPI duplicated  her existing cover and so was fundamentally 
wrong for her.
While Mrs S had what might be reasonably  regarded as a generous level of sick pay, 
the policy would have paid out alongside  this and for longer if necessary  up to 24 
months per claim. Mrs S could have relied  on her existing means to meet her 
mortgage payment  during the PPI policy waiting period (90 days.) And then when the 
policy started to pay out she could  have used her sick pay to meet her other regular 
and ongoing  household and personal expenditure. So I think  the PPI would have 
been useful to her and would have helped her out financially  helping  protect her 
home - if things went wrong.
I accept family and/or  friends might  say theyd help out. But I dont  think  this can 
reasonably be considered  as guaranteed means. And circumstances can change  
over time. I also think Mrs S in her circumstances wouldnt have wanted to solely rely 
on this type of help as a means  of repaying her mortgage.
Mrs S told us she had savings amounting to more than 12 months  of her income. 
And while I accept she might have had some savings, I think it unlikely this was 
either readily  accessible or to the extent  Mrs S says. I say this because I think its 
unlikely Mrs S would  have chosen to borrow 100% of the purchase price of the 
property she was buying if she had significant  immediate  access  cash savings to 
hand. I wouldve  expected her to use some if not all of these as a deposit  contribution  
if that was the case  otherwise she was borrowing  more than she really needed, 
which I find unlikely.
So overall I dont  think the policy was fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for Mrs S  I 
think she stood to benefit from it if she found  herself unable to work through  ill health  
or she became  unemployed.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable.
Ref: DRN45454635So in conclusion - given the level of borrowing and importantly  the percentage borrowing Mrs 
S was undertaking, for this reason together with those Ive set out above,  I find it unlikely that 
if Nationwide  had done more Mrs S would  have stopped and changed her mind  about taking 
out this particular mortgage  with PPI. I think she would still have gone ahead and taken it 
out.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said  including what  shes said most recently in 
support of her complaint  - but these things  dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided that Mrs S has not suffered loss as a result of 
taking out PPI with her mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4545463