K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires)  isnt following 
rules set by the regulator and that a debt its pursuing him for is unenforceable. Mr Bs 
partner (Ms B) has represented him in bringing  this complaint. 
background
Mr B had a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. His property was taken into possession 
and sold in 2006. Mr B says he thought  the balance had been  repaid in full at that time.
In 2014 a third party  company contacted Mr B about  a debt owed to Birmingham Midshires. 
Mr B says he didnt know what this was for, so he made a subject access  request (SAR) to 
Birmingham Midshires. Mr B says he didnt receive  a response to his SAR or any further 
contact from the third party.
In 2018 a different third party business contacted  Mr B, saying he had an outstanding  debt 
with Birmingham Midshires. Mr B replied to the third party,  again  asking about the origin  of 
this debt. He said that he hadnt  had a response to the SAR he made previously so didnt 
understand where the balance had come from. The third party  passed  this information to 
Birmingham Midshires.
Birmingham Midshires says it wrote  to Mr B in 2007 and 2008 about the shortfall. It says it 
responded to Mr Bs SAR in 2014 and re-sent the SAR information to Mr B in late 2018. Mr B 
says the debt isnt enforceable  as Birmingham Midshires didnt make sufficient efforts to 
contact him within  the relevant time limits. He says Birmingham Midshires  position that the 
SAR made  in 2014 is acceptance of the balance being owed is wrong. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said Birmingham 
Midshires had provided evidence of the debt owed and that it had tried to contact Mr B about 
it within relevant timescales.  
Mr B didnt agree. Ms B said Birmingham  Midshires didnt  start recovery  action within legal 
time limits. She says the debt owed is made  up of interest (not capital) and, in law, had to be 
claimed within six years.
The complaint came to me for a decision.  As I didnt agree  with all of the investigators 
recommendations, I sent a provisional  decision to the parties to explain what  I thought about 
the complaint.  In summary, I said I hadnt seen evidence that Birmingham Midshires made  
reasonable efforts to contact Mr B within six years of the property  sale to tell him it intended 
to recover the shortfall. I dont think it was fair for Birmingham Midshires  to first notify Mr B it 
intended to recover  the debt some  eight years after the property was sold  and this didnt  
meet the rules  in MCOB. I said unless Birmingham Midshires could provide evidence of its 
efforts to contact Mr B before the end of 2012, I intended to require it to stop pursuing Mr B 
for the debt. 
Both parties  responded to say they agreed. The findings and outcome below are 
substantially the same as those in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN49031592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Birmingham Midshires provided  a copy of the completion statement for the sale of Mr Bs 
property in December  2006 and correspondence  with its solicitors. These show  the sales  
proceeds as less than the balance owed. The shortfall was about £13,800. I think this is 
sufficient evidence of the shortfall. 
The shortfall wasnt automatically written off when Mr Bs property was sold. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Birmingham Midshires told Mr B in 2006 that no debt was owed.
Ms B says Birmingham Midshires has missed  time limits to enforce the debt through the 
courts. And she says it hasnt complied with regulations and agreed codes of conduct. 
The Limitation Act 1980 says that a lender has 12 years to use court  action to recover a 
principal sum of money secured by a mortgage. The 12 years  starts from the date the 
property is sold  when  the amount of the shortfall  is known. The court  action doesnt have 
to be an actual court application, a form of pre-action would be sufficient  for example  
notification that borrower  needs to pay or the lender would start court proceedings. 
The Limitation Act says the period during which the lender  can recover arrears  of interest is 
six years. However, the mortgage  terms and conditions  say payments are applied  first to 
interest arrears, then interest  due, then costs  and lastly to the principal amount. On this 
basis, the shortfall debt owed by Mr B would be of principal.
Birmingham Midshires says it sent a notice to Mr B about the shortfall in early 2007,  to the 
property address. The notice sets out details of the sale and that there  was a shortfall. 
Birmingham Midshires says it appointed a third party to recover  the debt. It hasnt provided 
evidence that the third party contacted  or tried to contact   Mr B. But its not disputed that 
Birmingham Midshires sent a notice to Mr B in December 2014. This said it was writing to 
you regarding your mortgage shortfall debt with Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham 
Midshires). It said a third party was instructed to recover the outstanding balance  of £13,800 
and enclosed a letter from the third party. This said it was instructed to collect a debt related 
to the sale of Mr Bs previously mortgaged property, which  was sold in December 2006 for 
£82,500, leading  to a mortgage shortfall of £13,800. The letter  asked Mr B to contact the 
third party about  agreeing  an affordable repayment plan. It said if it didnt hear from Mr B it 
would progress with further  collections  activity. 
In June 2018 a debt recovery  business  contacted Mr B saying it had been appointed to 
collect the debt owed to Birmingham Midshires. Contact has been ongoing since then. The 
debt recovery business put collection activity on hold while Mr Bs queries and concerns 
were dealt with. 
Birmingham Midshires sent notice of the debt to Mr B in early 2007, to his last known 
address. And its contacts  in December 2014 and June 2018  both within the 12 years  time 
limit  made it clear  it intended to recover the debt. I think its clear from the letters that the 
Ref: DRN49031593debt related to the property taken into possession, although  I can understand that Mr B 
wanted to establish that the amount claimed was correct.
As far as I can tell from the available evidence,  Birmingham Midshires didnt start legal 
proceedings or give notice of its intention to do so within the 12 years. However, it did get in 
contact with Mr B and agreed to put recovery action  on hold while Mr Bs queries  and 
complaints were dealt  with. I think this was reasonable. However, if Birmingham Midshires  
did take the matter  to court, it would be for the court to decide  whether the relevant time 
limits are met and whether the debt is enforceable.
But thats not the end of the matter for me. Because as well as the legal  time limits  I need  to 
consider whether Birmingham Midshires acted fairly and in accordance with relevant 
regulations and good industry practice when trying to recover  the shortfall.
Its likely  this was a regulated mortgage. So the rules set out in the part of the Financial  
Conduct Authoritys  handbook related to mortgages (known as MCOB) applied. The rules in 
force at the end of 2006 say the lender should  inform the borrower  as soon as possible of 
any shortfall debt. And, if it intends to recover the debt,  it must notify  the borrower of this 
within six years of the date of sale. 
The Council of Mortgage Lenders  (CML)  also says its members should  begin recovery  
action within  six years.
The intention is to ensure that borrowers are treated fairly  it wouldnt be fair for a lender to 
leave a long period before contacting a borrower about a debt. Borrowers  should provide up 
to date contact details to the lender. But, if they dont, Id expect to see evidence  that the 
lender made efforts to contact them.
Birmingham Midshires sent a notice to Mr B about the shortfall  in early 2007 to the property 
address, which  had of course been sold. I understand why it did this. Mr B hadnt  provided 
his new address, so this was likely to be the best way to contact him. Mr B might  have  left a 
forwarding address  or arranged for post to be re-directed. But Birmingham Midshires  would  
have known there was a risk Mr B wouldnt receive  the letter. And, while  the notice sets out 
details of the sale and that there  was a shortfall,  it didnt say that Birmingham Midshires  
intended to pursue Mr B for the debt. 
Its not necessarily unfair that Birmingham Midshires didnt succeed  in contacting Mr B within 
six years  to tell him it intended to recover the debt  especially if Mr B didnt tell Birmingham 
Midshires where he could  be contacted.  I would  though expect Birmingham Midshires  to try 
and get in contact with him and it hasnt  provided  evidence that it did so. Birmingham 
Midshires terms and conditions set out its right to recover the debt. Im not disputing  that. 
But what  I havent seen  is evidence that Birmingham Midshires made  reasonable efforts to 
contact Mr B within six years of the property sale and tell him it intended to recover  the 
shortfall.
I dont think it was fair for Birmingham Midshires to first notify  Mr B it intended to recover the 
debt some eight years  after the property was sold  and this didnt meet the rules  in MCOB. 
I said in my provisional decision that unless Birmingham  Midshires can provide evidence of 
its efforts to contact Mr B before the end of 2012, I intended to require to stop pursuing Mr B 
for the debt. Birmingham  Midshires responded to say it agreed with my provisional  decision. 
So I see no reason  to change the outcome from my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN49031594my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires) to stop pursuing  Mr B for the shortfall debt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4903159