K820x#14complaint
Mr P says that Furness Building  Society  mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1990  and he took out PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicators view. Mr P mainly says hed felt pressured  into 
taking it out and the lender overplayed the risks of sickness  and unemployment. He also 
mentioned that his original mortgage was obtained after a relative provided collateral 
security and taking out the PPI replaced this. 
Mr P has asked  for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Usually Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But theres  only limited information  
available. Furness Building Society cant tell us how the policy was sold. Mr P thought  he 
mightve arranged  this during a meeting. So I think thats probably what  happened.
Furness Building Society has sent me a copy  of a PPI application completed by Mr P. The 
date isnt clear, so Ive not relied much  on this. But I think its fair to say that as hed taken 
out his mortgage without  PPI, Mr P would've  had to apply for it separately if he wanted to 
add it on to his mortgage account.  
And I can see that Furness Building Society wrote  to Mr P on 1 May 1995  confirming that 
PPI had been put into effect on his mortgage  account on 1 April 1995. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr P has said about the way he was sold this PPI. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr P might be able to remember about the sale 
after so long. So what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  this 
complaint. I have to take into account all the available information and the wider 
circumstances before deciding what I think is most likely.  
Mr P had held his mortgage without PPI for some time. So, on balance,  I think he wouldve 
understood that having PPI wasn't a requirement  of the mortgage - and in fact his original 
mortgage agreement  specifically says sickness and accident insurance  does not apply.
Ref: DRN40615352And although Mr P is right to say that it was a condition of his mortgage that some additional 
collateral security was taken, I cant see that this had anything  to do with him taking out the 
PPI. I say this because an initial request to release the charge was made some years  before 
Mr P took out the PPI. This was refused. And after Mr P took out the PPI, a second request 
to release the charge  wasnt made until a year or so later. So its difficult  to see any 
connection between  taking out the PPI and applying  to get the charge released. 
Looked at overall, I think its more likely that Mr P decided he wanted to have  the benefits 
that PPI offered him and it was added to his account at his request when he chose to buy 
the policy. 
Furness Building Society says it didnt  recommend  PPI to Mr P. But it still had to make sure 
that he had enough information to make a proper decision about whether  PPI was right for 
him. So Ive looked carefully to see if it did this. And if this didnt happen, then I have to think  
about whether  this made any overall  difference to Mr P.
Mr P was eligible for the insurance and the policy terms wouldnt have  made it difficult for 
him to make  a claim. Mr P wasnt  affected by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So he 
couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered.
Ive taken into account that his employer wouldve paid him 6 months  full sick pay followed 
by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident 
and sickness claim.  So the PPI provided  better protection than he couldve relied on getting  
through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr P with a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra 
costs as a result of being sick or disabled and he wouldve only been on half pay after being 
off work sick for 6 months. 
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  PPI wouldve also paid out for 
up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr P lost his job and became unexpectedly 
unemployed.
I dont know if he wouldve always had savings he couldve relied on to make  his monthly 
repayments. And relying on someone  else to help out in the event of money problems isnt 
as dependable as taking  out PPI as everyones circumstances can change  unexpectedly. 
So I think the policy did offer Mr P useful benefits  given his situation at the time. 
Its possible  the information Furness Building Society gave Mr P about the PPI costs  wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been when  he applied for the cover. But the monthly cost was set out 
in the letter  sent to him confirming that the cover  had been set up. And if he hadnt wanted  to 
pay this - or Mr P had changed  his mind about  having PPI - then he couldve queried this 
with the building society. Ive seen nothing to suggest he did that at the time.  
So it appears to me that he chose to take out the policy when  he didnt have to  this 
suggests to me that he wanted  it. And it seems to have  been affordable  for Mr P at the time 
 he couldve cancelled  it anytime he wanted without incurring any extra cost if his 
circumstances changed. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr P still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.
Ref: DRN40615353So it doesnt  look as if Mr P has lost out as a result  of anything Furness  Building  Society  did 
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4061535