K820x#14complaint
Mr H says The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia (Britannia), mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 2000 around  eight years  after taking out a mortgage. He applied 
for the PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident and sickness   subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £155 a month towards Mr Hs mortgage  balance and other 
related expenses and household bills, in the event  of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost 
£5.53 a month.  
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a warehouse operative. He has told us he was entitled to 
less than three months sick pay and he had savings which were the equivalent of less than 
three months of his salary. Mr H did tell us about  some medical conditions he had suffered  
from, however, these didnt come  into existence until some  years after he had taken the 
policy. So it appears  Mr H was in good health at the time of the sale.
Mr H also told us he was entitled to redundancy pay if he was to lose his job. But as this 
policy only provided cover for accident and sickness claims,  not unemployment, it isnt 
relevant to this decision.
Britannia has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007.  
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Britannia failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Britannia should  have 
told Mr H about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Britannia should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN49500872The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in March 2000  before the General Insurance Standards  Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN49500873The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Britannia  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Britannia was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Britannia gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Britannia gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN49500874Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Britannia, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Britannia had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the PPI application form. This form includes information  about the 
level of cover wanted along with the amount of benefit that is required.  I can see that the 
form has been completed and signed by Mr H. On the form Mr H has chosen  to only insure 
for accident and sickness  not unemployment. This would suggest that he thought  about  
what cover  would be most beneficial to him and made a choice from what  was available. If 
Mr H didnt  want  to take out PPI he could have  chosen not to complete the form.
Im also aware that the PPI form was completed a number of years after the mortgage was 
taken out so I think Mr H would have known that this policy  was not a condition of any 
lending. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Britannia provide advice?
Both Britannia and Mr H agree that advice  wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  Britannia  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr H. Instead,  it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident  or sickness),  the details of the monthly benefit and the cost 
of the policy. I have reached  this conclusion because the PPI application form was titled  as 
an Application  for Accident, Sickness and/or Unemployment  Cover and included the 
monthly premium to be charged and the details  of the benefit provided. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Britannia gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr H agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Britannia gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN49500875In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Britannia ought  to have done either.  
what effect did Britannias shortcomings have  on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Britannia  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr H. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Britannia done  things  properly. 
Mr H says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own minds  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr H thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
The information Mr H was given  about the cost and benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN49500876The policy excluded claims caused  or contributed to by any physical or mental 
infirmity or disease which necessitated medical  or surgical treatment or consultation 
within the 12 months preceding the commencement date of the policy;  
The policy excluded any claims resulting from any existing  physical or mental  defect, 
infirmity, recurring disease or chronic or continuing disease of which Mr H was aware 
at the commencement  date of the policy;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his normal occupation and any similar employment which  his knowledge,  training 
and ability reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr H 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions at the time of taking the policy. So, I still think he had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr H 
from taking out the policy,  Mr H, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his normal  
occupation and any similar employment  which,  in the insurers  view,  his knowledge, training 
or ability might reasonably  qualify him to do, it might  have played into his thinking about  what  
he would  have done. And I accept it may have  given him pause  for thought   although  its 
possible he may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr H was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Britannia may not have told Mr H that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But 
12 months was a longer period than Mr H would have received  full sick pay for and his 
savings were worth significantly less than 12 months income. 
Ref: DRN49500877In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr H would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr H be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Hs sick pay and savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr H was unable  to work  through  accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr H would have taken out the policy  in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Britannia  should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN49500878Im also aware that Mr H thinks Britannia misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Britannias statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Britannia 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Britannia gave Mr H, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Britannia  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr H and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Britannia had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4950087