K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA wont  settle a claim they made 
under a travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S booked  a multi-leg holiday that included a number of flights and 
accommodation at different  locations.  During the holiday, when they arrived  at the airport  for 
one of the flights, it had been cancelled because  there was a cyclone at the destination. 
Mr and Mrs S say they decided not to go ahead with that leg of their trip. They booked 
another flight and stayed  with their daughter instead,  before continuing with the planned 
itinerary. 
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Inter Partner Assistance under their travel  insurance policy for 
the abandoned leg of their trip  including flights,  transfers and accommodation. Inter 
Partner Assistance  declined the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs Ss policy  provided a travel 
delay benefit.  But only where there was a delay of eight  hours  or more.  Their new flight 
departed two hours after the scheduled  departure of the original flight that had been  
cancelled. So the travel delay benefit didnt apply.
Inter Partner Assistance  later added that the policy only provided cover of £2,000 if an entire  
trip had to be cancelled (and subject to other conditions). Mr and Mrs Ss claim was for 
additional travel  arrangements  and these arent covered by the policy.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that Inter 
Partner Assistance  had acted unfairly  in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept what the investigator  said. They made  a number of points, 
including:
They booked alternative flights because the original flight  was cancelled and they werent  
contacted by the original airline  for more than eight  hours  after the scheduled  departure  
time. 
There were  no flights  available  to fly home.
They were only claiming for the costs associated with the cancelled leg of their trip.
The insurance policy was for the whole year and not just this holiday.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I note all of the points that Mr and Mrs S have made and I understand  their reasons for 
making the decisions they did. Im sorry to hear about what  happened  to their trip. Im sure it 
was very disappointing  for them. They do have travel insurance underwritten  by 
Ref: DRN41715862Inter Partner Assistance.  But travel  insurance  doesnt cover everything that could go wrong. 
It only covers  things  that are specifically  allowed for in the terms and conditions of the policy.
Looking at the policy Mr and Mrs S took out, Im afraid that the abandonment of part of their 
holiday in the circumstances here wasnt covered by the policy.  Mr and Mrs S might  have 
been covered  if the whole trip had been  abandoned because of the delay. But that isnt the 
case here. When they found  out about  the cancellation of their flight, Mr and Mrs S made 
their own alternative arrangements and then continued with their planned itinerary.  I accept 
that was an entirely  reasonable  decision to make in the circumstances. But their losses for 
the abandoned leg of the trip arent  covered by the policy 
The policy also provided cover if a flight is delayed for at least eight hours. I take 
Mr and Mrs Ss point  that the flight was delayed by more than that because  it was cancelled.  
But their new flight departed within two hours of the scheduled time of the original flight. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs S actually suffered a delay of eight hours or more, even if there would 
have been if Mr and Mrs S hadnt  made  new plans. I note the maximum payable  under this 
part of the policy was £100 and this was far short of the amount Mr and Mrs S have claimed.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ss claim wasnt covered by the policy.  Looking at the 
circumstances of this case,  I dont  consider  that the insurer has acted unfairly  by declining 
the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171586