K822xcomplaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a claim he made on his Amtrust Europe Limited legal  expenses  
insurance policy.
Mr C says Amtrust  were wrong to decline his claim for cover.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in June 2019, part of which is copied below:
Mr C made a claim on his legal expenses  insurance policy  for cover to bring a claim against  
a firm of builders who intend to develop land adjacent to his own.
Mr C says that the development those builders  are proposing to erect will obstruct a right of 
way that services his property. When Mr C made his claim he spoke to Amtrusts legal 
protection helpline. They  told him they didnt think his claim was covered under the policy  
terms because the policy excludes actual, planned or proposed works by or under the order  
of any government or public or local authority (the local authority exclusion).  
Mr C says he didnt think this term applied  to his case so he spoke to Amtrust about  this. He 
says that Amtrust thought this wasnt quite  right so they directed him back to the legal 
protection helpline. After  a further  conversation with the helpline Mr C was told the local 
authority exclusion  did apply to his claim. As a result of this Amtrust said they werent 
prepared to cover it.
Mr C says his claim isnt one thats  caught  by the local authority exclusion and that its a 
claim Amtrust  should consider. Our investigator considered this and asked Amtrust to 
explain why theyd declined Mr Cs complaint. Amtrust said that as well as the local authority 
exclusion, claims for injunctions arent covered by Mr Cs policy  but claims for damages are. 
In a claim for damages, the claim must be proportionate to pursue. In this case Amtrust 
thought the claim  wasnt proportionate to pursue. They also thought  the claim had less than 
51% prospects of success. 
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint. She initially thought the local authority 
exclusion did apply but later changed  her mind and agreed with Mr C that it didnt. But she 
still didnt think the claim was covered. This was because  she thought that Amtrust  were 
entitled to rely on the opinion expressed  by their legal protection  helpline.
Mr C doesnt agree to so the matter has been  passed to me to determine.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im currently  upholding 
Mr Cs complaint against Amtrust Europe  Limited.
Although Amtrust havent disputed the investigators  opinion  that the local authority exclusion 
doesnt apply,  I think its important I confirm my findings on this issue.  That term excludes 
actual, planned  or proposed works by or under  the order of any government or public or 
local authority. Amtrusts  legal protection helpline said that exclusion was applicable to Mr 
Ref: DRN40227282Cs case because the builders he wanted  to claim against had the benefit of planning 
permission to develop  their land.
Mr C has consistently maintained that this isnt the correct  interpretation  of this term and I 
agree with him. An approved application  for planning permission  isnt an order  of a local 
authority; rather its a permission to carry out works. And it doesnt defeat any legal rights 
Mr C might have  over access  to his land. Its unreasonable to suggest otherwise  and if 
applied in that way would  wrongly exclude a vast number of claims made  under  that specific 
section of the policy. 
So I think Amtrusts  agents were wrong  to apply that exclusion. I can see that Mr C 
complained to Amtrust  about this directly  and that they seemed  inclined to agree with him. 
But rather  then resolve the issue by discussing the matter with their agents or putting things 
right themselves, they referred him back to the legal protection helpline who maintained their 
position. Their  interpretation of the local authority exclusion was plainly  incorrect so I 
understand why Mr C was so frustrated with how hed been  treated. 
And given  Amtrust were aware of their agents position and seemed to have taken an 
interest in Mr Cs complaint, I wouldve expected them to do more than refer him back  to the 
helpline in these  circumstances.  Instead they decided not to involve themselves further. 
Because of this I think Amtrust should compensate Mr C for the frustration and 
inconvenience hes been caused  as a result of both their conduct and that of their agents. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the legal protection  helpline  were acting as Amtrusts agents  
when they declined his claim twice by citing the local authority exclusion. So Amtrust is 
responsible is for this. Ive set out what I think is an appropriate figure of compensation 
below.
Amtrust have also said that Mr Cs claim isnt proportionate to pursue. The policy  requires 
there to be reasonable prospects of success which includes the outcome of the claim being 
proportionate to the costs involved. Amtrusts view on this is based on the advice of the legal 
protection helpline. Its correct that we consider it reasonable for legal  expenses  insurers to 
rely on the advice  of qualified legal professionals, as long as that advice isnt obviously 
wrong or based  on factual inaccuracies. Wed  also expect  any advice being given to be 
considered and sufficiently detailed. 
In this case Mr C was told that claims for injunctions werent covered. I accept that that 
would be the primary claim Mr C would want to pursue against the builders, should 
proceedings become necessary, but that doesnt mean he doesnt have a claim in the 
alternative. His alternative claim is for loss of use of an express and possibly  prescriptive 
right of way. This would be a claim in damages, which  is covered by the policy.  The advice 
Mr C was given was that such a claim would be minimal.  
Im concerned about the quality of that advice. Mr C hasnt provided the legal protection 
helpline with any documents that relate to his property  such as the value of it - both with 
and without a right of way. And no consideration appears to have been given to how he says 
he uses that right of way. In particular he says that being deprived of it would  lead to his 
having to extend his property to allow him to take items of furniture in and out when required 
as the current layout of it doesnt permit this. The advice he was given was that the claim 
was nominal because  he only uses the right of way a few times a year. Whilst Im not 
speculating on the merits of Mr Cs claim, I am concerned that the opinion  expressed wasnt 
considered and didnt take into account what Mr C had said.
Ref: DRN40227283Im also uncertain about the qualifications  of the people that advised Mr C on the value of his 
claim. Its not clear  whether theyre suitably qualified- so whether they are qualified solicitors, 
barristers or legal executives- and if not whether they work under the supervision of 
someone who is. Given the advice was expressed  in an unsolicited  phone call from Mr C, I 
think its unlikely  that the person giving that advice wouldve sought supervision from a 
suitably qualified person. In addition  I dont know if the advice was given  by someone with 
experience in dealing with property  litigation disputes such as Mr Cs. 
In the circumstances I think Amtrust shouldve picked up on this when reviewing Mr Cs 
complaint and more  particularly  the call recordings theyve sent to us of the advice given  to 
Mr C. As a consequence I think theyve done something wrong and should put things right in 
the way Ive set out below.
fair compensation
Amtrust should:
Instruct a firm of suitably qualified  solicitors to consider Mr Cs claim and advise whether 
the value of it exceeds the costs likely to be incurred. 
If those solicitors consider the claim to be proportionate to pursue then Amtrust  should 
ensure the solicitors  also provide an assessment on the merits of Mr Cs case.  If Mr Cs 
case does have  reasonable  prospects of success as required by the policy,  Amtrust 
should fund Mr Cs claim, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
Pay Mr C £250 for the frustration  and inconvenience caused  by its handling of his claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. Both have confirmed they accept my provisional 
findings and have nothing further to add. In the absence of any further submissions  from 
either party, my findings remain the same. 
fair compensation
Amtrust should:
Instruct a firm of suitably qualified  solicitors to consider Mr Cs claim and advise whether 
the value of it exceeds the costs likely to be incurred. 
If those solicitors consider the claim to be proportionate to pursue then Amtrust  should 
ensure the solicitors  also provide an assessment on the merits of Mr Cs case.  If Mr Cs 
case does have  reasonable  prospects of success as required by the policy,  Amtrust 
should fund Mr Cs claim, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
Pay Mr C £250 for the frustration  and inconvenience caused  by its handling of his claim.
Ref: DRN40227284my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Amtrust Europe Limited and 
direct it to comply with my award of fair compensation .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4022728