K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  that Mr and Mrs W took out in 1992. It protected  their 
monthly mortgage repayments. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree, and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats  happened. They  mainly  say they 
didnt ask for PPI. And they thought  the payments they were  making  were  for their mortgage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs W. But I wouldnt expect either Lloyds or 
Mr and Mrs W to have kept this. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs W to 
recall in detail what  was said at the time after so long. So I cant know exactly what  was 
discussed when  they took out PPI.
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. What Mr and Mrs W say isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold their complaint.  
Although Lloyds couldnt provide any documents from the sale,  its records show  that 
Mr and Mrs W took out PPI to protect  their mortgage monthly repayments more  than 3 years 
after the mortgage was set up. 
This means  that Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to fill in a separate  application form and set up 
new payment arrangements to take out PPI. I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs W 
have now forgotten  these  details. But I think they wouldve  understood at the time that it was 
up to them  to apply  for cover if they wanted to have it. They wouldve known that, because 
they had already set up their mortgage some years earlier  without taking out PPI. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their mortgage repayments  were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
On balance, based on all the information  I've seen,  I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W 
decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out PPI and it was added  to their 
mortgage at their request. 
Ref: DRN49121742Lloyds couldnt  confirm if it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W. But if a business  
makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information 
in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps  to make sure the cover it recommends is 
suitable. So looking  at the complaint on the basis that Lloyds  recommended  the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs W gives their complaint the best chance  of success. And, like Lloyds, I think  
thats the fairest way to look at their complaint given the lack of information  from the sale.  
Mr and Mrs W were both eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs W 
told us about their sick pay arrangements at work. But the policy wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit for longer than they couldve depended  on getting any sick pay - up to 12 months per 
claim if Mr W or Mrs W was too sick to work.  And the policy  wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits. So I think PPI couldve provided a useful benefit  at a difficult  time  especially 
if Mr and Mrs W mightve had extra costs if they were off work as a result of illness or 
disability. 
Also the policy  wouldve  paid out if either of them became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs W long term cover for their mortgage.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs W wouldve always had savings  they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. PPI wouldve covered their mortgage for longer than the amount of 
savings theyve mentioned wouldve lasted if theyd  had to use these to make  their monthly 
repayments.
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to redundancy money. This wouldve protected any lump 
sum Mr and Mrs W mightve  got giving them more  financial security. So I can understand 
why someone with redundancy benefits would still want  to have PPI as well.
Looking at all the information Ive seen,  and thinking  about  their circumstances, I think  the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs W were  
affected by any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits  when they took out 
PPI. So, I dont think having more information about  things the policy didnt cover  wouldve 
affected their decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs W when they applied for the 
policy. It seems  to have been  affordable for them. I say this because  they took out the PPI 
when they didn't have to. And they wouldve had to set up separate  payment arrangements 
at their bank to cover the cost of the monthly premiums  when  they did this. So it looks  like 
they were happy  to pay for the PPI at the time.  Mr and Mrs W couldve  cancelled the policy  
at any time if their circumstances changed or they no longer  wanted to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  better information 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs W off buying PPI.
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done 
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN49121743I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4912174