K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  British  Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) proposed settlement of 
their Homecare insurance claim. My references  to BG include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs H have a blocked  drain  at their property. BG accepted the claim and its 
contracted engineer attended. Tree roots have broken through the drain and the roots need 
to be cut. Mr and Mrs H say the engineer told them the damaged  pipe could be fixed  by 
either digging  up the old pipe and replacing it with a new one or inserting a fibreglass liner 
inside the existing pipe from the drain.  
BG doesnt dispute  Mr and Mrs Hs policy covers  repairing and unblocking  drains to restore  
flow. But it said cutting  the roots to unblock the drain was the only repair covered by the 
policy. The lining was a preventative measure  for roots not to damage the pipe again so not 
covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us. They want BG to cover the fibreglass liner work its engineer  
recommended as the best method to repair the pipe.
Our investigator recommended BG install the fibreglass liner under the policy.
BG disagrees and wants an ombudsmans  decision. It accepts that unblocking  the drains by 
cutting the roots only resolves the immediate blockage and lining the drain is needed  
otherwise the drain will probably become blocked again. But it says the key part of the policy  
cover is to restore flow and once flow has been  restored its repair under the policy  is 
completed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
BG cutting back the roots from the drain  will unblock  the pipe and restore  water  flow. But 
I dont think just cutting  back the roots can fairly be considered to be a repair that meets  
BGs policy obligation of repairing and unblocking  drains to restore flow.
Removing the roots  but leaving a hole in the pipe isnt repairing the damage  to the pipe. And 
BG accepts that without  the fibreglass liner its likely the roots  will grow back  into the pipe 
causing another blockage.  
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome of this claim is for BG to repair  the pipe. BGs 
engineer gave Mr and Mrs H two options  for the repair of the pipe. He quoted the cost for the 
fibreglass liner as £540. The other  option  would be for BG to dig up and replace Mr and 
Mrs Hs patio which has recently  been  redesigned and laid. Under the policy BG has to 
cover up to £1,000 for it to gain access and make  good each repair.
On the evidence I have the carbon fibreglass  liner option is the easiest and cheapest method 
for BG to repair the pipe.  BG hasnt disputed that method is the most cost effective.
Ref: DRN43725862my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to remove the tree roots from the drain and install  the 
fibreglass pipe liner to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372586