K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  wont cover his claim made  on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car was stolen the day after his house  was burgled and one of the keys was stolen. 
But Advantage declined his claim because  it said he hadnt taken reasonable steps to 
protect his car. Mr H said there was nothing he could reasonably have done differently. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr H had 
taken reasonable  steps to protect  his car as hed ordered a replacement  key and hed 
planned further actions. But ill health and other  factors prevented him from putting these into 
place before the car was stolen. So she thought  it was unfair for Advantage to decline the 
claim. She thought it should settle  the claim in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
But Advantage thought  Mr H could  have made better provision to reduce the risk of threat in 
the short-term before  later making the car safe. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr Hs policy  says that he must take all reasonable steps to protect his car from loss or 
damage. Advantage said Mr H was aware  of the risk of the car being stolen. But Advantage  
said that Mr H had left his car unattended for about  three hours without adequate attempts to 
safeguard it. 
Id normally say it was reasonable  for Advantage to decline the claim for this reason. But I 
can see that Mr H provided  Advantage with a detailed and, I think,  persuasive,  account of 
what happened on the day of the theft.  
Mr H explained what he did to ensure the safety of his car. He went to the dealership  to 
arrange for a replacement  key and have the stolen key decoded. But, unfortunately, this 
would take two days to be done.  Mr H explained what  he also planned  to do (leave the car 
secured elsewhere,  buy a crook lock) in the meantime. But unfortunately these plans werent 
put in place in time to prevent the theft because of:
The priority  of securing the house with new locks and dealing  with police forensics
The serious and unexpected ill-health  of a relative  
Mr H having to deal with his daughters distress and her own insurance claim
Mr Hs own ongoing ill-health at the time
Ref: DRN48314872So Mr H left his car unattended near his house for three hours whilst he refreshed himself,  
made necessary calls and gathered his thoughts. He then found that his car had been stolen 
in broad daylight, presumably by the same  thieves who stole his daughters car using the 
stolen key. I dont  think  Mr H acted  recklessly here as he didnt think the thieves would return 
in the daylight and he didnt plan to leave the car unattended  for long. 
Taking into account Mr Hs explanation,  I think  Mr H did take reasonable steps  to protect  his 
car when  he was able to do so. He had further steps planned but was unable to put these 
into place because of circumstances outside  his control. So I think it was unfair for 
Advantage to decline  his claim  for this reason. 
Advantage said Mr H should  have called  it to arrange for his car to be collected  once his 
keys had been stolen. But Mr H said he didnt have any experience of theft and didnt know  
this was available to him. I dont think this was unreasonable. Mr H explained that he thought 
it was for him to sort things out. Mr H had taken action to secure  the cars key and, as hes 
pointed out, he didnt have key cover  as part of his policy.  
Advantage said Mr H could have parked his car around the corner from his house  to avoid 
the theft. But Im not sure that this would have been effective as the police concluded that 
the thieves were likely to be semi-local and could have seen the car parked locally. In any 
case, I think Mr H has provided a reasonable explanation for why he couldnt do this and 
needed to park near his house at the time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to settle  Mr Hs claim in line with the terms and conditions  of his policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4831487