K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about mortgage advice he was given in 2008.  The advice was provided  by 
TBG Financial  Services Ltd (TBG),  a representative of Intrinsic  Mortgage Planning  Ltd 
(IMPL). Mr A says the mortgage wasnt suitable for his needs.    
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 18 February 2019. A copy  of that decision is 
attached, and it forms part of this final determination.  
In that decision,  I noted that IMPL  accepted  that TBGs adviser was an appointed 
representative (AR) for the purposes of giving mortgage and protection  advice. And I 
believed that even though  it was likely that the investment advice was ancillary to the 
mortgage advice,  the adviser  did not provide suitable and appropriate mortgage advice to Mr 
A in any event. 
I considered that if the adviser had pointed out the significant risks of taking out a mortgage 
to fund an overseas  unregulated investment, Mr A would not have taken the interest-only 
proportion of the mortgage designated for the purchase of the property. Being unauthorised 
to advise on unregulated overseas investments does not mean  that TBGs adviser had no 
obligations to Mr A. He had to comply with the MCOB rules and guidance and I felt he had 
failed to do so. 
HSS said that Mr A had no further  comments to submit. 
IMPL accepted my findings as well, except that it queried the value of the proposed payment 
for distress of £750.  It said that in similar cases,  the distress payment has been lower.  It 
therefore did not believe £750 was a reasonable sum.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given neither party has objected  to my 
findings on the outcome of the complaint,  I remain of the view that this complaint ought to 
succeed in part.  
IMPL has said it does  not feel the award of £750  for the distress caused to Mr A was 
reasonable, given it is not aligned with other decisions issued from this service  on similar 
cases. It has also referred to our guidance on the amounts of awards.  
A payment for upset,  distress, or inconvenience  in a complaint is fact-sensitive, and 
dependent on the particular circumstances of that complaint. Our external guidance pointed 
out by IMPL says how every customer and every complaint is different  - and compensation 
needs to reflect the impact  on the individual people involved.
I set out in my previous  decision  that Mr As representative explained how distressing the 
situation has been for him, this was specifically set out at the time the complaint was brought  
to us  noting  that irrespective of being  able to afford capital  repayments,  Mr A has since  
been left without a repayment means for a proportion of his borrowing. And while IMPL isnt 
responsible for the investment or the failure of the investment,  its appointed  representative  
didnt set out the risks with the proposed  repayment  vehicle. 
Ref: DRN45285152Mr A has been caused substantial  inconvenience  and upset because  of that failing. I believe 
£750 is within the right level of awards  wed make of this nature  noting  that the guidance is 
set around bands  of awards based on the facts of the upset caused, not specific  prescribed 
amounts for each  type of complaint.   
putting matters right
Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Ltd should pay Mr A the result of the difference  between  the 
additional amount he borrowed on an interest-only  basis (his new mortgage less his existing 
mortgage) and the balance that this proportion of the new mortgage  would  now be if he had 
taken out the entire lending on a capital repayment  basis from the outset.  
It also must  pay £750 for the trouble and upset  Mr A has suffered, as HSS has explained 
how distressing this situation has been for Mr A. 
I make  no further award. 
For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis  that the Harlequin  
investment has a nil value. If this should  change or any funds are distributed in relation to the 
Harlequin deposit later, IMPL will be entitled to those funds. IMPL may request that Mr A 
either assigns the investment to it, or gives an undertaking that hell transfer any future 
benefit to it. IMPL must pay the costs associated with any such  assignment or undertaking.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning Ltd must pay Mr A the redress set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45285153copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains about mortgage advice he was given  in 2008. The advice was provided by TBG 
Financial Services  Ltd (TBG), a representative of Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning Ltd (IMPL).  Mr A says 
the mortgage wasnt suitable  for his needs.    
background
Mr A is now represented by High Street  Solicitors  HSS in bringing his complaint. 
In October 2008, Mr A met with two advisers  at his home. One was an agent  from Marcus James 
Group, and the other was an adviser  from TBG. The agent advised  him to invest  in an off-plan 
overseas property via Harlequin Property costing £155,000.
The TBG adviser gave Mr A mortgage advice. TBG was an appointed representative of IMPL at that 
time. TBG was authorised by it to give advice on mortgages. 
Mr A applied via the adviser to remortgage his home on a further split capital repayment and interest-
only basis. Just over £60,000 was required  for the capital  repayment mortgage, and a further £46,500 
would be used to pay a deposit for the Harlequin  investment. 
The representative says Mr A expected that his mortgage payments would  be met by Harlequin, 
under the terms  of his investment arrangement.  Sadly, the Harlequin property was never built. Its 
highly likely that Mr As lost all of the funds he paid as a deposit. 
In February 2015, Mr As previous representative complained to IMPL.  It said that Mr A was mis-sold 
a remortgage by TBG. The representative said Mr A believed the advice was unsuitable because  
TBGs adviser proposed an interest-only mortgage when  the repayment vehicle for that lending was 
dependent on the success of a high-risk,  unregulated  investment.  
IMPL did not uphold the complaint. It said the mortgage adviser at TBG was only authorised to 
provide advice on mortgage and protection products,  not investment products. Further,  it said it wasnt 
a mandatory requirement for the adviser  to obtain information  regarding the preferred repayment 
vehicle. Nor was it aware of the mortgage  lender requesting this evidence from Mr A. 
IMPL said the advice was suitable, and the mortgage was affordable  based on Mr As recorded  
needs. Finally, it noted the key facts documentation made clear Mr A would  still have £45,500  left to 
repay at the end of his mortgage term. It expressly said how hed need to account for that. IMPL 
therefore concluded its adviser gave correct  advice, since he had accounted for Mr As 
circumstances.  
By this time, Mr A was represented by HSS. It referred the complaint to us. It noted that its view was 
Mr A couldnt  have raised further lending for the entire property purchase.    
One of our adjudicators  reviewed the complaint. She felt it ought  to be upheld. Whilst she noted the 
consumer could afford  to repay the further  lending taken as a deposit for the Harlequin investment, 
she still didnt find the advice to be otherwise  suitable. She noted he might  have been able to raise full 
funds for the remainder of the property purchase. But, the very nature of the overseas  investment 
presented too much risk. She did not believe the property would ever have provided a return such that 
the mortgage would be repaid.  
Ref: DRN45285154Further, there  was no explanation  given  as to why part of the mortgage (the Harlequin deposit)  was 
interest-only when the remainder of the remortgage was on a capital repayment basis. Mr A could 
have afforded  capital repayments for both. She said the adviser actually increased the risk of Mr A 
being unable to repay the interest-only element  of his mortgage in the future. She thought  it reduced 
his ability to repay  if the property  wasnt built.  
The adjudicator also proposed a payment of £750 to reflect the upset caused to Mr A.  
IMPL disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  It said:
the adviser was not regulated to provide advice  about the repayment vehicle;
if he had done that hed wouldve been in breach of the representative agreement between 
TBG and IMPL;
he was required to make sure the mortgage was suitable and affordable  and he did this;
Mr A could have sought suitable external investment advice but he chose not to do so;
the adviser did not tell Mr A to remortgage his property;
the paperwork makes clear that Mr A would have a balance left at the end of the term  this 
put him at sufficient notice of a need  to repay that sum;
Mr A could have changed the basis of his mortgage after October 2013,  when the fixed period 
ended, but he didnt do so. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Id like to also thank both parties for their patience with this matter. In 
doing so, I agree this complaint should be upheld, in part. I intend to issue a decision along  the 
following lines. 
IMPL does accept that TBGs adviser  was an appointed representative  (AR) of IMPL. But it says that 
is restricted to protection and mortgage advice only and that there is no evidence that TBGs adviser 
gave Mr A investment advice. 
I dont agree that there is no evidence of what went on in respect of the advice.  Mr A met with both 
advisers at the same  time. Follow up correspondence  shows that took place at his home. He was 
given a key facts  document which was headed with two business stamps,  IMPLs  (as Intrinsic) and 
TBG FINANCIAL  SERVICES LIMITED/THE MARCUS JAMES  GROUP . 
 
Mr As former representative has explained how Mr A was visited at home by two advisers,  one from 
TBG, and another  from Marcus James. The representative says that together they promoted the 
property purchase, gave  them literature about it, and introduced them  to Harlequins finance 
arrangement for the mortgage  repayments.  The fact find documentation  shows they operated from 
the same address. 
Under 2.3.1R  of the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), I can consider  a complaint relating to:
(1) Regulated  activities
Or any ancillary  activities,  including advice, carried on by a firm in connection  with them.
And under section 39(3) of the Financial Service and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) it says:
The principal of an appointed  representative  is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Ref: DRN45285155Since IMPL accepted  responsibility for the mortgage advice given  to Mr A by the adviser,  if 
investment advice was given ancillary to that, it would likely also be responsible for that advice too. 
Nonetheless, Im not going to determine whether  I think it likely investment advice was given  by 
TBGs adviser ancillary to the mortgage advice. Thats because I dont think  that is central to this 
complaint. This complaint  has been  set out by HSS and Mr As prior representative. It is specifically 
about the mortgage advice  Mr A received from TBG, as an AR of IMPL.  
The complaint is about the suitability of the mortgage for him, and as I intend to uphold  the complaint 
in part, its not been necessary for me to make findings about whether  the investment advice was 
ancillary to the mortgage  advice.
I recognise that IMPLs view is that TBGs adviser  wasnt authorised to give advice about  unregulated 
overseas property investments. But, he was aware that was the reason  Mr A sought the remortgage;  
he was present at the meeting with the adviser  from Marcus James  and both parties names and 
addresses appear on TBGs advice correspondence. It follows I believe that the adviser was put on 
notice of the nature of the Harlequin investment  leading  to Mr As decision to remortgage his home to 
fund the investment deposit.
The requirements  of the adviser when considering  Mr As options are set out in the Mortgage Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) which  applied  at the time. As the mortgage was taken out on Mr 
As residential property,  it was a regulated  mortgage contract.
Under MCOB 4.7.2R a regulated mortgage  contract  was suitable  if, having regard to the facts 
disclosed by the customer and other relevant  facts  about the customer  of which the firm is or should 
be reasonably  aware, it had reasonable grounds to conclude that:
the customer can afford  to enter into the regulated mortgage contract;
it is appropriate  for the needs  and circumstances  of the customer;  and
it is the most suitable of those that the firm has available to it. 
MCOB 4.7.8G states that a firm was generally  entitled to rely upon the information  provided by a 
customer unless taking a common sense approach it had reason to doubt it. But, that does not avoid 
the advisers duty to have  looked at Mr As wider circumstances.   
The adviser  had to ensure  he had all relevant information to allow him to recommend a mortgage that 
was appropriate and affordable for Mr A. Although he could generally  rely upon what Mr A had said, 
this meant he was still required to exercise  a degree of caution and question anything he had reason 
to doubt.
I do find that the mortgage was affordable for Mr A. His recorded income exceeded  £2500 per month 
and Mr A didnt have  any dependants. After his expenditure, the fact find noted that including the new 
mortgage he would still have over £1200 of further spendable income. However, under  the points of 
Under MCOB 4.7.2R set out above, I do not believe TBGs adviser  reasonably  established that the 
further mortgage lending was either appropriate or suitable.  
IMPL has said the adviser wasnt qualified  to advise whether the property was a realistic repayment 
vehicle, but I dont agree.  While he may not have been able to advise Mr A on the investment itself (or 
the risks), he was able to provide advice on mortgages.  Giving advice  on an interest-only mortgage 
will (or should) include  considering the repayment strategy.
In Mr As case, he could clearly have afforded to take out the additional mortgage on a capital 
repayment basis,  yet there is no recorded discussion around this. In fact, the suitability documentation 
from the adviser records that Mr A required an endowment mortgage.  
Ref: DRN45285156MCOB 4.7.12G states it does not require a firm to provide advice on investments when considering 
its obligations under MCOB 4.7.11E. But it does go on to state that whether  such advice should  be 
given will depend upon  the individual needs and circumstances of the customer and that MCOB 4 
does not restrict the ability of an adviser  to refer the customer  to another source  of investment 
advice.
Theres no clear evidence to show Mr A was referred for such investment  advice. But, when 
assessing whether the mortgage was appropriate for his needs and circumstances, the adviser 
wouldve needed to think about how the mortgage would  be repaid. The suitability documentation  is 
silent on why the additional  funds are needed. It simply  says the funds are needed to remortgage.  
I believe TBGs  adviser failed  to meet two of the MCOB requirements set out above.  The features of 
the Harlequin  investment ought to have raised  concerns given further funds  would be needed  to meet 
the full value  of the property.  TBGs adviser made no documented discussions with Mr A about this. 
Its not clear what regard,  if any, was given  to how Mr A would raise  the money  needed to pay the 
balance for the Harlequin property, if and/or when it became due. That part of the mortgage would be 
serviced by Harlequin up until completion of the build,  at which  time Mr A wouldve needed  to pay the 
balance of a further £108,500. The only realistic way he couldve  done that was to raise a mortgage 
on the overseas property, or sell it. Both of those scenarios meant he was dependant on a number of 
factors including reliance  on the property being built without delay or loss in value, currency 
fluctuations, and on Mr A being able to seek another mortgage for the remainder of the finance. 
Looking at all of the circumstances, I believe if the adviser  had made Mr A aware of the risks, and if 
hed appreciated those risks, he wouldnt have taken out the additional  borrowing  on an interest-only 
basis. Being  unauthorised  to advise  on unregulated overseas investments does not mean  that TBGs 
adviser had no obligations to Mr A. He had to comply with the MCOB rules and guidance and I 
believe he failed to do so. 
Even though  the adviser could only provide recommendations about  Mr As mortgage, because  of its 
reliance on Harlequin, I conclude that he ought to have highlighted the potential repayment risks more  
specifically. And though  I believe the mortgage was affordable  for Mr A, there was no justification  for 
the requirement of part of the lending to be taken  on an interest-only  basis.  
So, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. This isnt because the investment failed; its not to 
compensate for Mr As investment loss nor is it that the mortgage was unaffordable for him. I uphold it 
because I believe  the adviser did not properly have  reasonable  grounds to conclude that the 
repayment strategy was suitable or appropriate.  I dont  believe  Mr A was fully advised  of the risks in 
repaying the mortgage and the advice was unsuitable  for his circumstances. 
If Mr A had received  correct  mortgage advice,  I believe it most likely that he would have taken out the 
full borrowing on a capital  repayment basis. This was the most suitable option for his stated 
requirements, is the most suitable of those that TBG had available to it and it was affordable for Mr A. 
I appreciate Mr A would still have had to undertake lending for the remainder of the value of the 
Harlequin property  purchase.  However, Mr A was more  than 25 years from his intended  retirement  
age of 60, and he still had available income  open to him to have likely raised  funds to service that 
balance.
putting matters right
Given I am minded to uphold this complaint in part, unless I see evidence which changes  my mind, I 
will issue  a final decision along these lines:
Ref: DRN45285157Intrinsic Mortgage Planning  Ltd should pay Mr A the result of the difference between the additional 
amount he borrowed on an interest-only basis (his new mortgage less his existing mortgage) and the 
balance that this proportion of the new mortgage would  now be if he had taken  out the entire lending 
on a capital repayment basis from the outset.   
It also must pay £750 for the trouble and upset  Mr A has suffered, as HSS has explained how 
distressing this situation has been for Mr A. 
I will make no further award. 
For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis that the Harlequin  investment has a 
nil value. If this should change or any funds are distributed  in relation to the Harlequin deposit later, 
IMPL will be entitled  to those  funds. IMPL may request that Mr A either assigns the investment  to it, or 
gives an undertaking that hell transfer any future benefit  to it. IMPL must pay the costs associated  
with any such assignment or undertaking.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint and propose that Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning Ltd must pay the total 
sum of the redress calculation as set out above to Mr A. 
I now invite  both parties to submit any further comments they have by 18 March 2019,  after which  
time Ill issue my final decision. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4528515