K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage in 1985.
In 1992 they took out PPI to protect their mortgage monthly repayments. The policy provided 
them both with accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs B disagree. 
They told us that they werent  informed of the policy terms, conditions,  limitations  or 
exclusions and say they werent given  any detailed information. Theyre also unhappy that 
our adjudicator hasnt  upheld their complaint even though Nationwide can provide only 
limited information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs B. But I wouldnt expect Nationwide or 
Mr and Mrs B to have kept this. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to 
recall in detail what  was said at the time after so long. So I cant know exactly what  was 
discussed when  they took out PPI.
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely. 
Although Nationwide couldnt  provide any documents from the sale,  its records  show  that 
PPI was taken out to protect Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage around 7 years or so after the 
mortgage had been set up without  PPI. 
And between 1985  and 1992, Mr and Mrs B had taken  out a number of further advances on 
their mortgage  without  taking out PPI on those  occasions. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs B decided to have PPI when they arranged some extra borrowing to 
pay for home improvements. They wouldve had to fill in a separate application  form to take 
out PPI. I can completely  understand  if Mr and Mrs B have now forgotten  these details. But 
I think they wouldve  understood  at the time that PPI wasnt required for their further  advance  
in 1992 and that it was up to them to apply for cover if they wanted to have it.
Ref: DRN40439372Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On 
balance, even if they hadnt  wanted  it before, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs B 
decided they wanted to have the benefits  that PPI offered them  when they took out this extra  
borrowing and they chose to buy the policy. 
Nationwide says it didnt  advise Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy.  But Ive looked carefully 
at whether it gave them  clear, fair and not misleading information  so they could decide for 
themselves if they wanted to have PPI.
Mr and Mrs B were  both eligible for the policy. And as they were both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs B told us about their sick pay entitlement through  
work. But the policy wouldve covered them both for longer than they couldve depended  on 
getting sick pay. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if they were off 
work as a result of accident or sickness. It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing  a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Mr and Mrs B mightve faced 
extra costs  as a result of being ill or disabled.   
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of additional discretionary sick pay being 
paid to Mrs B. But Im looking at her contractual entitlement  because  thats all she could 
safely rely on when she took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when it 
doesn't have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit in 
the event of a successful  claim.
In addition to this, PPI wouldve also paid out if either of them became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs B long term protection.
The mortgage was taken out when  they were both earning so I think it mightve  been  difficult 
for them to pay the mortgage if they werent both working. Mr and Mrs B mentioned having 
some savings  but I dont  know if they wouldve always had savings they could  rely on if 
theyd needed  to make a claim. And it looks like they preferred not to spend savings, or they 
had other  plans for that money, since they took out this extra borrowing rather than invest all 
their savings in carrying  out the work  on their house. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs B could 
depend on being able to continue to keep any savings intact to spend on other  things or to 
provide financial  security for the future. 
Based on everything  Ive seen about  their circumstances at the time, I think the policy 
offered a range of benefits to Mr and Mrs B. 
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they werent affected  by any of the main  conditions limiting the 
policys benefits. So I dont think clearer  information  about what  the policy didnt  cover  
wouldve put them off buying the PPI. 
Ref: DRN40439373I dont know if or how the policy costs  were explained to Mr and Mrs B when they took it out. 
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt  affordable  for them.  And they chose  to 
take out the policy when  they didn't have to  so it looks like they were happy to pay for it at 
the time,  even if theyve  forgotten this now. 
As this was a policy they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled  it at any time 
without losing out financially if they didn't want to pay for it. 
Overall, I think its possible there may have  been some failings in the way this policy was 
sold. But I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been  better  
informed as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. I dont think having  
better information wouldve put them off buying it.
 
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs B have  lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4043937