K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr J entered in to a HPA with VWFS  in February 2017 to acquire  a new car. He says the car 
started to experience  issues in September / October  2017. These included the satellite 
navigation system crashing; the central  locking system locking/unlocking itself randomly; the 
sound system and radio sporadically  stopping  working; and the car randomly switching off 
while driving.
Mr J says that in September 2017, the car experienced  a complete loss of power. He says 
he took the car to be investigated and repaired  and was told the issue  had been resolved. 
However in October  2017, he says the issue occurred again so he returned the car but no 
fault was found.
Mr J contacted the VWFS in November 2017  to ask to terminate his agreement but this 
wasn't accepted.  Further  investigation  took place but Mr J says the same issue  kept 
occurring. He says given the number  of times the car broke  down, he didn't feel safe driving 
it.
Mr J also complains that he spoke to the dealer  about the issues  and asked for some 
assistance regarding  the finance.  He says he was told he could stop making payments and it 
would let VWFS know about this. However this didn't  happen and Mr J's account went  into 
arrears, a default was applied  against him and the car repossessed.
VWFS says that Mr J contacted it to say he was struggling to make  his payments not long 
after acquisition. It says his account was brought up to date in September  2017.  The next 
contact from Mr J was him asking to reject  the car. It opened  a complaint to investigate  the 
issues Mr J had raised, that is: issues with satellite  navigation system; fuel consumption;  and 
the car cutting out.
It says that the faults couldn't be replicated despite more than one investigation and so 
Mr J's complaint wasn't  upheld. It says that it was Mr J's choice to leave  the car in the 
garage between  20 December 2017  and 9 February  2018  as no faults had been found.
Mr J stopped making payments in February 2018.  VWFS says it issued  Mr J letters 
regarding the status of his account and following this the HPA was terminated and the car 
recovered.
Our investigator thought that Mr J should've been  allowed to reject the car in December 
2017 / January  2018. She said that this was before Mr J had missed any payments. 
Because of this she recommended  that the default be removed  from Mr J's credit  file, the 
agreement unwound  and the outstanding balance written off. She noted that the car had 
already been collected.
VWFS didn't accept our investigator's  view. It reiterated that no fault had been confirmed 
with the car and although the car had been to the garage on a number of occasions  this can 
happen without  there being a fault present.  It said the car had been sold following recovery 
and that the new owner hadn't reported  any faults  despite there being no repair before sale. 
Ref: DRN48382762It said Mr J fell into arrears on his agreement and that because  of this the agreement  was 
terminated.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr J asked to reject  the car in November 2017,  and this was the first mention of any 
quality issues to VWFS. There was no mention  of the car cutting  out at this time. Given  
the concern that would have been  caused by the car cutting out I would have expected  
this to have been  mentioned had this occurred before this date;
given the communication Mr J had with VWFS  before November 2017 regarding 
payments, had he been experiencing  a number of issues with the quality of the car I 
would have expected these to have been mentioned;
the first mention of the car cutting out was in January  2018.  Investigation  and an 
extended road test were carried out but no fault was found and no stored fault codes 
noted in the car's  (computerised record) system;
the entertainment system was investigated and no faults found;
February 2018, Mr J reported the car cutting  out on the motorway. Evidence was 
provided by a third party break down service. The Electronic  Control Unit (ECU) was 
noted in the break  down company's  report  but no further details were provided. Further 
investigation and road testing took place but no faults were found;
an issue with the fuel consumption was noted in October 2017 and checks  took place in 
January 2018  and no faults were identified.  Checks  also took place in regard to the 
information /entertainment system around  this time and no faults were found.
As no faults  were found and given the time that passed between acquisition  and when the 
faults were raised,  and the mileage covered, I didnt  find that I had enough evidence  to say 
that there  were faults with the car that were present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr J said he had been treated very badly by VWFS. He said he had been told on several 
occasions that there were issues with the car. He also said that work would have had to 
happen before the car was sold such as MOT and service in which  faults could have been 
rectified. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr J acquired  a car through a HPA with VWFS. Under the regulations VWFS can be held 
liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new at 
acquisition it is reasonable that Mr J would expect it to be free from faults, including  minor 
defects.
Ref: DRN48382763I understand why Mr J was disappointed  by my provisional decision. However, as I set out in 
that decision, without further  evidence to show there were faults that were  present or 
developing at the point of supply, I dont find I have enough to uphold this complaint. 
As no new material evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision my 
position hasnt  changed. 
Given Mr Js circumstances we would expect  VWFS to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in regard to his outstanding  account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4838276