K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss L says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a private reserve  account  Miss L took out in 
1996.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint and Ill explain  why.
Allianz had to make it clear to Miss L that the PPI was optional  and needed  her consent before it 
could be applied to her account. Miss L says that it wasnt made  clear  that the PPI was optional 
and that the PPI was added without her knowledge.
Over 20 years have passed since the time of sale and neither party has been able to provide the 
original documents  from the sale.  There is nothing surprising or unusual about this. But Allianz has 
provided a copy of the type of application form that was in use at the time, and I think  its 
reasonable to rely on this to show what Miss L wouldve seen.
Theres a separate  section for the PPI. It makes it clear that the cover is optional. And if the 
consumer wanted  to take the PPI they had to tick a box to accept  the policy,  write their name out in 
full and provide  their date of birth. I dont think the PPI wouldve been added  unless this section 
had been completed. So, on the very limited information available to me, I think its more likely 
Miss L opted  to take the PPI knowing she didnt have to. But I can understand why she may not be 
able to recall this now.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss L so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss L got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN45799452Miss L said she didnt need  the cover because she had sufficient sick pay from her employer 
to meet  her repayments if she was off sick from work, she also had some savings and other 
insurance. But the policy cost just 65p per £100 of the balance  Miss L owed, and if a 
successful claim  was made, it would have  paid 15% of Miss Ls outstanding monthly 
balance. Considering the low cost of the PPI and the benefit  it offered I think  Miss L would 
have found the policy to be good  value for money  and I still think  she would have bought the 
policy if she had been given clearer information.  
Ive taken into account Miss Ls comments, but these  dont  change  my conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4579945