K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc refused his claim made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He says that goods  he purchased using  a fixed  sum loan werent 
of satisfactory quality. He wants the faulty  items replaced or a refund.
background
Mr H is represented in this complaint by his wife, but for ease of reading Ill just refer to Mr H.
Mr H tells us he bought some furniture  from a retailer  Ill call N. He says that after a week  
or so he found  the dining chairs were damaged with paint peeling off. He says hes unhappy  
that after two inspections Hitachi is saying he caused the damage and that it wasnt a 
manufacturing fault. Mr H says he takes care of his table and chairs and denies that he was 
responsible for the damage.
Hitachi told us that the goods had been  inspected  on two occasions, and that both 
inspectors had reported the damage to be accidental damage  and not a manufacturing  fault. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said the items had 
been examined on two occasions.  And that both the inspectors whod seen the goods  had 
reported the damage was due to accidental damage  caused  by Mr H. He said he thought 
Hitachi had done  all it could to investigate the claim.  And it hadnt done  anything wrong in 
relying on the reports.
Mr H didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H was disappointed with the quality of the items he purchased.  And I can 
see hes upset at the suggestion that he (or his wife) caused the damage.  
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. A breach of contract  might occur if goods supplied  werent of 
satisfactory quality. And thats whats been alleged  here.
Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding Hitachis liability under section 75 - only a court 
could do that. We take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Im deciding is whether  Hitachi did enough in considering Mr Hs complaint. And if it didnt,  
what else it should now do. 
Where information is unclear or facts  are in dispute - as is the case  here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN45760562Theres no doubt that some of the items purchased by Mr H were  damaged  at the time of the 
inspections. But theres conflicting opinion as to what caused the damage. Two inspections  
have been carried  out and both have reached  broadly  the same conclusion.  And that is that 
the damage was due to the manner  in which the chairs were  used.  And not to a 
manufacturing fault. The first examination of the goods and the subsequent  report came 
from Ns own inspector. The second  inspection was carried  out by a company Ill refer to as 
HS. And I cant see it had any links to the supply of the goods. So I can view it as 
independent.
The reports  suggested  that the chips occurred  when the chairs  were replaced under a table 
after use. Mr H is insistent  that this isnt the case.  Ive taken into account  that the first 
inspection was carried out by a member  of Ns own inspection team. So it cant  be viewed  as 
independent. So it was right for Hitachi to obtain  a second opinion. HS conducted the later 
inspection and prepared  the report. As it was independent of the supplier  I think  it was fair 
for Hitachi to rely on this report.
Ive already indicated that Im not deciding the merits  of a section 75 claim.  And so I dont 
need to decide which partys explanation is more likely  to be correct.  In the context of this 
complaint against  Hitachi  I have to decide  if it dealt with Mr H fairly and did it take all the 
relevant factors  into account when considering his complaint.  Given  that both reports 
conclude there was no manufacturing fault I cant say it was unreasonable  for Hitachi to 
conclude thered been no breach of contract  by the supplier, N.
In summary,  I want to make  it clear that Im not finding that Mr H caused the damage to 
these items.  Im finding  that Hitachi was entitled to rely on the contents of the two inspection 
reports in reaching  its decision to refuse his section 75 claim. As such  I dont think  its done  
anything wrong. Accordingly,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4576056