K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has poorly handled a claim she made  
under her motor insurance policy.
background
In February 2019  Ms Fs car was damaged by a fire that spread from a stolen third-party 
vehicle which was set alight. Ms Fs car was deemed as beyond economical repair, so AXA 
made Ms F an offer of settlement for it. 
AXA also explained  that if it was unable to identify the negligent third party then it wouldnt 
be able to recover monies from any source. It said that in this instance, the matter  might 
have to be marked as an irrecoverable claim against  Ms Fs policy.  And that if this step was 
taken, it may affect Ms Fs no claims discount at the time of renewal and therefore her 
insurance premium.
But Ms F didnt think this was right. She disagreed that the claim liability could be recorded 
against her instead  of the third-party  vehicle owners   or against the party  that stole  the 
vehicle. She was also unhappy  AXA had failed to provide her with a courtesy car after the 
incident. She said AXA gave a very poor service over the phone and she accused  it of 
discrimination.
AXA said that in incidents where it cant prove  negligence  against  a third party, its policy  
terms allow it to settle  the claim  in the way it had set out to Ms F. It listened to the calls its 
agents had with her and said that certain  calls couldve been handled more sensitively given 
the circumstances. It apologised for this and offered £50 compensation for any trouble and 
upset caused.   
Ms F was unhappy with AXAs  response, so our investigator looked into the matter after 
Ms F brought her complaint to this Service. But she concluded AXA had acted fairly in its 
handling of the claim,  and she thought the compensation already offered for the service was 
sufficient to put things  right. Ms F disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that its not my role in this case to decide who was at fault for the incident 
involving Ms Fs vehicle. I can only look at whether AXA has handled  the claim fairly in all 
the circumstances of this case. A starting point to help me decide  this, is the policy  terms 
and conditions, which say that AXA have  the right to take over and deal with the defence  or 
settlement of any claim in the name of the person making a claim under this policy.  
Its been established that the damage  caused to Ms Fs car was the result  of fire spreading 
from a stolen vehicle  that had been set alight. After  writing to the police AXA found that the 
individual(s) who did this hadnt been found.  So it dealt with Ms Fs claim as an irrecoverable 
loss, which  meant the excess she paid couldnt  be refunded to her and her future  premiums  
could be affected.  
Ref: DRN47893812I understand why Ms F feels shes being unfairly penalised for damage that wasnt  her fault.  
And the whole experience mustve been  very upsetting for her. But AXA isnt blaming  Ms F 
for the incident  by recording it in the way it has. It simply means  that its been unable  to 
recover its losses incurred in the handling and settlement of her claim.  And in circumstances 
like this, its not unusual  for motor  insurers to take the approach  that AXA has in this case.
In the absence of a negligent party, the costs  have been paid out under  Ms Fs insurance 
policy only. And where a claim has been  paid under her policy,  an excess is also applicable. 
It follows that in the circumstances, Ms F would therefore be responsible  for this as well. So 
while its unfortunate, I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to deal with Ms Fs claim the 
way it has. So I wont be asking it to make any changes to how the claim has been  recorded 
in this case.
Ms F also complains that she shouldve been provided with a courtesy car while  AXA was 
considering her claim. But the terms of Ms Fs policy say that; 
Following a claim under Part A  Loss and damage, you will be provided with the use of a 
courtesy car whilst your car is undergoing repair, subject to the repairers terms and 
conditions. A courtesy car is not available in respect  of:
claims where your car is identified as being  beyond  economical repair
claims where your car has been stolen and has not been recovered
claims where a recommended repairer  has not been used
losses which occur  outside  of the UK.
Ms Fs car was deemed as beyond  economical  repair, and the terms show that she wasnt 
entitled to a courtesy car in this instance. So I dont think AXA has acted unfairly  by not 
providing her with one.
Ms F says that when she spoke to AXA on the phone, she received poor customer  service, 
and that its agents  were  discriminatory towards  her. The calls Ive heard that took place 
between Ms F and AXA didnt evidence to me that she was discriminated against. Ive 
considered the service  she received  from AXA during these calls. And I think  at times its 
agents failed to properly manage  her expectations,  and as AXA has admitted, they 
sometimes lacked empathy for the unfortunate situation Ms F was in. 
So I agree that AXAs  customer service fell below the level Id expect during some of the 
calls Ms F had with it. But I also have to note that while  I understand it was a very difficult 
time for Ms F, she was also very irate on some  of the calls  at times significantly raising her 
voice and using expletives. Whats clear to me, is that the relationship had broken down. But 
in my opinion, both parties couldve handled their interactions with each other better  to avoid  
this happening.
AXA has apologised for its poor service  and has offered Ms F £50 for any upset caused. I 
understand Ms F doesnt think  this is enough,  but compensation for trouble and upset isnt 
intended to fine or punish the business for its actions. Its to recognise the impact  its actions 
have had. 
Ref: DRN47893813In my opinion, the real impact being  complained about by Ms F in this case, is regarding 
AXAs decision about how the claim will be recorded  against her. But Ive already explained 
why I think the approach  its taken is fair in the circumstances.  With regards to trouble and 
upset, I think the apology and £50 compensation already  offered by AXA in this case, fairly 
recognises the impact  of its poor customer service  in this case. It follows,  I wont  be directing 
AXA to pay any more  than this amount.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms F was hoping for and I do empathise with the situation  shes 
in. But Im satisfied Ive reached a fair outcome for the reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that the £50 compensation thats already 
been offered in this case is a fair resolution  to this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should 
pay Ms F this amount if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789381