K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about the amount charged by BUPA  Insurance  Limited  for her private 
medical insurance policy. Mrs K is represented in her complaint by her son, Mr K.
background
Mrs K held an international private medical  insurance policy  with BUPA. When  the policy  
renewed in 2017,  the premium was over £10,000,  even though it had a £5,000 excess. This 
represented an increase of over 60% on the cost two years earlier. Mr K, on behalf of his 
mother, complained  to BUPA about  this and pointed  out his mother  hadnt made any claims 
under the policy  for several years.
BUPA didnt  uphold  the complaint. It explained  the factors it took into account in pricing  the 
policy and said Mrs K had been charged the same  amount as anyone else in her position.
Mr K, on behalf of his mother, was unhappy at BUPAs response.  He referred  his complaint 
to us. He said the policy  was becoming  unaffordable and felt BUPA should offer a no-claims  
discount.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, 
BUPA had calculated  the premium fairly. She explained that we were not a pricing regulator 
and couldnt compel BUPA to introduce a no claims discount scheme.
Mr K didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said his mothers  premium had been rising  
unreasonably over the past five years, forcing  her into accepting  ever higher excesses to try 
and reduce the cost. He said his mother was now in her late 70s and so would have difficulty 
in moving to a new insurer. He felt that BUPA was seeking  to force  his mother  to give up her 
cover just at the time she was most likely to need it.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this discretion  fairly and consistently,  in accordance with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we would not normally  interfere.
BUPA has explained  to Mr K the factors which it takes into account when calculating  the 
policys premium. These factors include the policyholders country  of residence, their age 
and the level of excess. It doesnt take into account a policyholders individual  claims history  
through, for example, a no-claims discount but it is not up this service  to tell an insurer  the 
factors it should and shouldnt take into account  when  determining the risk of someone 
making a claim and therefore the ultimate  price of the policy.
BUPA has provided  us its relevant  rating  tables, taking into account the above factors, for 
the past five years. I cant share this information with Mr K because  it is commercially 
sensitive. However, I can assure him that I have checked it and am satisfied Mrs K has been 
Ref: DRN47112072charged the correct  amount. The premiums she has been charged are the same as anyone 
else in her circumstances would have been charged.
I appreciate Mr Ks concern that his mothers policy is becoming unaffordable and she may 
have to give up cover. I sympathise with Mrs K over her situation. However, I am unable to 
tell BUPA  how it should price its policies. I am satisfied it has calculated Mrs K premium 
accurately and fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K on behalf  of 
Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4711207