K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Firstplus Financial Group  Plc (Firstplus)  mis-sold them a 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003 when they applied for a 
joint loan.
background
Mr and Mrs M complained to this Service. They said Firstplus, the lender, mis-sold them a 
PPI policy  in 2003 when it called Mr and Mrs M and used aggressive selling tactics  to 
pressure them to buy PPI. They said Firstplus told them they had to have PPI to get the 
loan. They conclude  Firstplus is responsible  for looking at their PPI mis-sale complaint. So 
they complained  to Firstplus.
Firstplus said it was not liable for the PPI sale because it was clear  from Mr and Mrs Ms 
sales documents that the policy was sold by a broker company I will call 
Broker Company F. 
Our adjudicator thought Firstplus was not responsible for the PPI sale and he sent a detailed 
letter to Mr and Mrs M exploring other  avenues  of complaint for them.  Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I thought Firstplus 
was not responsible for the PPI sale, so I could not uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint 
against it. We sent a copy of my provisional  decision to both parties  and invited further 
comment or new evidence. Neither  party had any new evidence for me to consider, so I see 
no reason to change  the conclusions I made in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether Firstplus is responsible  for the sale of the PPI 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it shouldve  done. If I 
dont think Firstplus was responsible for the sale to Mr and Mrs M, then Im not able to 
consider a PPI mis-sale complaint against  it  and this will mean  I cannot  uphold the mis-
sale complaint against  it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think there is enough here to say Firstplus  sold the 
PPI policy  to Mr and Mrs M. So it follows  that if Firstplus did not sell the PPI, I will not be 
upholding this mis-sale complaint against Firstplus.  I know  this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, 
so I will explain  why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs M about the sale.  They recalled they 
were applying for a joint secured loan. Mr and Mrs M said Firstplus  specifically told them 
during an aggressive  telephone sales call that they could not get the loan without the PPI. 
So they signed all the forms they were told to sign. They  accept Broker  Company F brokered 
the loan agreement and completed the loan application for them   but they say Broker 
Ref: DRN45619242Company F did not sell them the PPI. They conclude the complaint should be looked at by 
Firstplus.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Firstplus. It accepts it was the lender at the time 
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy. It also said the loan application, loan agreement  and 
screenshots from its systems show the loan and PPI were sold by Broker  Company F. 
I looked very carefully at the loan application dated 25 July 2003 and signed  by 
Mr and Mrs M. It shows Broker Company Fs trading name  at the top of the form. Also at the 
top of the form,  it shows a tick box for the consumer to choose  PPI but it does not appear  
this has been  ticked on Mr and Mrs Ms form. However, there is also another  form which I 
think is still part of the loan application process;  on it, there is a tick box which  confirms  Mr 
and Mrs M received information  about PPI, that they had read the PPI information  and 
understood it and they did not want any other PPI information. There is no date on this form 
but it refers to the confidential loan application  form which needs to be signed,  dated and 
returned to Firstplus; so I think it is reasonable to assume the PPI form was completed  
around the same date as the loan application. So I dont think Firstplus can be responsible 
for the PPI sale.
I have also seen the loan agreement which is also signed and dated on 25 July; it shows the 
lender, Firstplus, added  the PPI to the loan as it appears it was requested  to do so in Mr and 
Mrs Ms loan application.  We have asked Firstplus for evidence  of a call recording but it said 
there is none as it did not sell the PPI. It is also difficult to see when the PPI sales  call may 
have occurred during the loan application  process  particularly as the loan application was 
dated 25 July and the PPI was already shown on the loan agreement  which was also 
dated 25 July.  
So I think Firstplus was not responsible for the PPI sale, it follows  that it also was not 
responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am not going to uphold this PPI mis-
sale complaint against  Firstplus.
This means  Firstplus doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Firstplus  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Firstplus got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Firstplus  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Firstplus has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M has said - including what they have said about  
being pressured to buy the PPI during an aggressive telephone  sales  call. But this point 
does not change my decision. I can also see our investigator did a very thorough 
investigation and reported on all possible avenues of complaint  to Mr and Mrs M but  and I 
am sorry to disappoint them - this will be as far as this Service can take the PPI mis-sale 
complaint against  Firstplus.  
Ref: DRN45619243my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy was not mis-sold by Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc  so 
Firstplus Financial Group Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs M.
But Firstplus  Financial  Group Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4561924