K821x#15complaint
Miss D has complained about a series of loans  she was provided with by Loans 2 Go 
Limited (L2G). She says there were several  times where she missed payments and fell into 
default which nearly resulted in her car being  taken. As a regular customer, the (loan  
application) forms were completed for her using previous details and all she had to do was 
sign them  to get the cash. Shes  also said that the charges and interest were really high too.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 20 December  2018, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Miss Ds complaint. I invited 
both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Following this, Miss D confirmed that she accepted  my provisional decision and that she had 
nothing further  to add. L2G also responded to my provisional decision saying that while  it 
didnt agree with all of the points raised, it agreed  with the proposed  resolution. So it didnt 
provide anything further for me to think about  either.  
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Miss Ds complaint  in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from Miss D or L2G and L2Gs  agreement  
with the proposed resolution, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 20 December 2018,  Im 
upholding Miss Ds complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited  should put things  right in the way set out 
in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43652622COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss D has complained about a series of loans  she was provided with by Loans 2 Go 
Limited (L2G). She says there were several  times where she missed payments and fell into 
default which nearly resulted in her car being  taken. As a regular customer, the (loan  
application) forms were completed for her using previous details and all she had to do was 
sign them  to get the cash. Shes  also said that the charges and interest were really high too.
L2G has provided what can only, at best, be described as a threadbare  business  file on this 
case. Its final response didnt set out the details of Miss Ds lending  history.  And its business 
file didnt shed  too much light on this either.  So weve  had to reconstruct Miss Ds lending  
history based on the limited information  L2G has provided. 
As far as I can see, Miss D was provided  with an initial log book loan, with 12 month term, of 
£500 in October  2013. There were a number  of top-ups, which resulted in a new loan 
agreement being  signed, with some  of the funds from the new loan being used to settle the 
balance on the previous  one. L2G provided  Miss D with a total of nine log book loans   the 
last of which was in October  2016. 
When Miss D approached for a further  advance in December she was provided  with a 
personal loan that had an 18 month term. Miss D was provided with a second 18 month 
personal loan,  which  included funds to repay the October  2016  loan, when  she approached 
for further  funds in January 2017.  As I understand it, no payments have been made on the 
January 2017  loan.  
So, as far as I can see, Miss D was provided with nine logbook  loans and two personal loans 
between October 2013 and January  2017.  As these  loans  were taken in sequence, I will 
refer to them as loans one to eleven in this provisional decision as set out below.        
Loan Type Date taken Settled Consolidation Term Repayment
1 Logbook October 2013 January 2014 None 12 months £63.89
2 Logbook January 2014 October 2014 Loan 1 12 months £89.44
3 Logbook October 2014 January 2015 Loan 2 12 months £115.13
4 Logbook January 2015 March 2015 Loan 3 12 months £139.43
5 Logbook March 2015 June 2015 Loan 4 12 months £195.58
6 Logbook November 2015 April 2016 None 12 months £77.33
7 Logbook April 2016 August 2016 Loan 6 12 months £116.00
8 Logbook August 2016 December 2016 Loan 7 12 months £193.33
9 Logbook October 2016 December 2016 None 12 months £113.28
10 Personal December 2016 January 2017 Loans 8 and 9 18 months £220.44
11 Personal January 2017 Outstanding None 18 months £226.56
In its response to this provisional decision, I ask L2G to confirm  that there is no other  lending  
to Miss D other  than what Ive set out above and that the loan consolidation is also accurate. 
I also ask Miss D to confirm that she agrees  with this summary  of the lending history   or to 
provide evidence of other lending.
Ref: DRN43652623background
In its response to Miss Ds complaint, while not providing much  in the way of detail,  L2G 
didnt agree that its checks were inadequate. It says that, when Miss D applied for her loans, 
a thorough affordability assessment was conducted  with consideration to her documented 
income and expenditure, her own testimonies and also a review  of her credit  file. 
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Ds complaint  and concluded that Miss D shouldnt have 
been provided with any further loans from loan four onwards. L2G disagreed with our 
adjudicator. As a result, the complaint has been  referred to me for a decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
the legal and regulatory framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
L2G gave Miss D her first two loans in the period up to the end of March 2014.  During  this 
time it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order  to carry 
out consumer  credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
Ref: DRN43652624(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Miss Ds case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Ref: DRN43652625Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Ref: DRN43652626Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Ref: DRN43652627Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Ref: DRN43652628Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point the ILG was amended to 
reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional  
requirement on a lender  to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in 
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of 
Consumer Credit providers passed  to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
By the time of loan three and for all of Miss Ds subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards) this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the 
rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
Ref: DRN43652629regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)
L2G gave Miss D loans  three to eleven  after regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees  had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. L2G 
initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before it went on to 
successfully apply for authorisation as a consumer credit provider. L2Gs interim permission 
to provide consumer  credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject 
to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like L2G. CONC also 
replaced the requirements set out in Section  55B CONC  5 sets out a firms obligations in 
relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations  after a consumer 
has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following 
extracts, the FCAs CONC  rules  specifically note and refer back  to sections  of the OFTs  
Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. 
Ref: DRN436526210CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Miss Ds loans  were given to her after Section  140 of the Consumer Credit Act came  
into force  on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court  may 
determine that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Ref: DRN436526211Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
Ref: DRN436526212(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
the law
Ive also taken account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions  I havent  set out 
above), and other relevant  legislation, including the law relating  to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract;  as well as the law relating to causation and remoteness.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did L2G, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Miss D would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss D wouldve been  able to do so?
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that L2G didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss D and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did L2G, each time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Miss D would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way?
Regulations in place throughout the period when L2G was lending to Miss D required  it to 
carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Miss D could afford to repay her loans in a 
sustainable manner.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so L2G had to think about 
whether repaying  the loan sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences  for 
Miss D. In other words,  it wasnt  enough  for L2G to think  only about the likelihood  that it 
would get its money  back without considering  the impact of repayment on Miss D herself.
Ref: DRN436526213Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that L2G completed for each  of Miss Ds 
loans were proportionate, I want to start by making  a couple of observations on the 
arguments L2G has made. It has said that it reviewed the affordability of all loans where the 
loan packs are to hand and can confirm  they were  all deemed  affordable.
Theres no explanation  of which loan packs it had to hand. Theres no explanation of 
whether L2G means the loans were deemed  affordable at the time of application, or as part 
of a review into Miss Ds complaint. And crucially theres no explanation on what exactly it 
was  other than reviewing the loan packs to hand  that led L2G to deem  that all of the 
loans were affordable.
L2G has simply provided some loan packs without any narrative  on what  any of this 
information means. Considering that this is information that L2G says it used to inform its 
lending decisions,  its disappointing that L2G has been unable  to tell me what it reveals 
about Miss Ds circumstances when she applied for her loans. 
This service cannot and will not search through dozens of pages of information (some of 
which is coded) looking  for evidence to support L2Gs defence of Miss Ds complaint. If L2G 
cant describe what the information it has provided shows about  Miss D and why this means 
it was reasonable  for it to lend, then I cant and wont  put any weight on it. Without any 
explanation from L2G on this matter,  I cant take it as read that its lending  decisions were 
Ref: DRN436526214fair. And I invite L2G to provide more detail on these  points, its checks and what they 
showed, in its response  to this provisional decision.
Ive also seen that, in its response to our adjudicators  assessment, L2G has said:
Due to us being  considered a sub-prime lender it is the core of our business that our 
customers return, this is also why we do not require our customers to be employed, 
however are required to provide evidence to support  that the loan is affordable.
I think that it is important to make this point because this argument appears to suggest that 
L2G doesnt see a customer needing to repeatedly return for further finance as an issue.  
Indeed it instead suggests to me that its core business model relies on consumers  
refinancing previous loans. And, at first glance,  its difficult to see how this response tallies 
with L2G carrying  out a borrower focussed  assessment. Equally, for reasons Ill return to 
further on in this decision, Im not persuaded that L2G interpreted  the evidence  that it did 
receive from Miss D fairly either.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
Its important to note that loan one was Miss Ds first with L2G. And although Miss D was 
being expected to maintain payments for a year, the monthly payments were relatively low. 
So it could be argued that a relatively light touch income and expenditure assessment 
mightve been proportionate in these circumstances.
That said,  Miss D was given a logbook loan. So the loan was secured on her car and she 
mightve lost it if she was unable to make her payments.  And given the implications of this, I 
think that a proportionate  check  ought  to have reflected this. In these  circumstances, I 
wouldve expected  L2G to have  verified  at least  some of the income  and expenditure 
information gathered.
L2G cant even  show me the information it gathered for loan one, let alone what  if anything it 
verified. And it hasnt  provided anything on the information gathered prior to loan two. Its 
possible L2G thought that a light touch check was proportionate because Miss Ds car 
provided security. But I dont think that this was enough to constitute  a borrower focussed 
assessment. And I dont  see how this considers the impact of the repayments  on Miss D. As 
Ive explained,  L2G appear to have relied on similar checks for loan two. 
Miss D does appear to have been  asked some  questions about her expenditure when she 
applied for loan three. And L2G has provided  the results of a credit check which it carried 
out. This shows that Miss D had a recent  (two months before this application) County Court 
Judgement (CCJ).  L2Gs  notes and statement of account also show that Miss D had late 
payments on loan two in June, July and August 2014 (the months leading up to the CCJ). 
Given what Miss Ds borrowing history  and the information L2G gathered  had shown, I dont 
think it was fair, reasonable or proportionate  for L2G to simply rely on what  was completed 
on an income and expenditure questionnaire  as being an accurate reflection of what  Miss D 
was likely to be able to afford. Bearing in mind all of this, I think that it wouldve been fair 
reasonable and proportionate to have taken  further steps to verify the information on the 
questionnaire. 
I think that this is especially the case as Miss Ds answers to L2Gs questions also revealed 
that a significant proportion  of her income was made  up of in work benefits. I dont think  that 
Ref: DRN436526215in work  benefits  making up a significant  portion  of Miss Ds income, on its own, means  that 
L2G shouldnt  have lent to her. But I do think that L2G ought  to have been mindful of the fact 
that a significant proportion  of Miss Ds income  was fixed. And, in these circumstances, 
I think that L2G ought to have been  particularly mindful that Miss D could ill afford to develop 
a dependency  on high-cost credit.
I say this because  I think  that there was a greatly  reduced prospect of a consumer,  in      
Miss Ds position, being able to come into increased  funds and use them to free themselves   
from persistent borrowing. So I think L2Gs checks for loan three shouldve raised a 
significant number  concerns.  And even if these  didnt  cause  L2G to decline the application 
outright, it shouldve prompted it to ask further questions. But L2G appears simply to have 
approved loan three without doing  anything further.  
L2G carried out similar checks  before providing  loan four. And the credit  search it carried out 
showed that Miss D had applied for advances  against income payday loans as such  
providers had been carrying out credit  checks on Miss D  which  indicated  that she was 
making applications for payday loans. Yet rather than treating this as a flag and investigating 
the possible impact granting  more  credit would have on Miss D, the authorisation form for 
loan four shows that Miss D was lent 150% of the maximum amount permitted in L2Gs 
lending matrix. 
The reason  given for this was that Miss D was an existing customer  that had always  paid on 
time. But this was clearly  untrue. Miss D was late in making at least  three  payments in the 
preceding seven months. So even if I thought that L2Gs  reasons  for lending 150% of the 
maximum amount its matrix permitted (for the avoidance of doubt, I dont see how this in 
itself could ever constitute a sound  borrower focussed reason  for advancing more  than the 
maximum permitted), the available evidence (Miss  Ds repayment record) doesnt  support 
the findings L2Gs loan approver  reached. 
The loan pack for loan five shows that Miss D was asked for some additional information. Its 
unclear why Miss D was asked for further  information. But one of the documents  Miss D did 
provide was a Council  Tax bill. This Council  Tax bill showed that Miss D was in arrears and 
that she was in an arrangement to pay them.
I have a couple of observations about  this.
Firstly the income and expenditure information questionnaire doesnt  capture these arrears, 
even though L2G ought to have been aware  of this as it was in possession of the Council 
Tax bill. Secondly Im even  more concerned that L2G still considered  it had enough to 
progress this loan application even though Miss D hadnt paid her Council Tax. 
Bearing in mind the potential for criminal proceedings,  most  consumers dont  choose  not to 
pay their Council Tax. They generally  dont pay because  theyre  unable  to do so. But not 
only did L2G think it was reasonable  to provide loan five, it also thought  that it was 
reasonable to again lend 150% of the maximum amount permitted by its lending matrix. 
Again the reason given  for this was that Miss D was an existing customer  that always  paid 
on time.  
L2Gs confidence that it would get its money  back and what it has, on this case, said is its 
core business model of customers returning  for more loans, mightve meant  that it was 
happy to lend. But the evidence it had by this stage  didnt  support the loans being  affordable.  
In fact the Council  Tax arrears actually suggested  the opposite. L2Gs failure to react to what  
Ref: DRN436526216it was seeing and do more to assess the issues as well as the potential  impact of granting  
even more credit to Miss D leads  me to conclude that its checks  for all of the loans up to 
loan five werent proportionate.
L2G appears to have  conducted similar checks for loans six to eleven. As this this is the 
case and Ive already  explained why Id expect a lenders  checks to become more  thorough  
the more loans a consumer is provided  with and the longer the lending  relationship  lasts,  I 
dont think I need  to provide a detailed description of what  L2G did and why I think  it was 
inadequate. 
It also follows that I think that L2Gs failure to carry out a thorough  and fully verified  income 
and expenditure  assessment before providing  loans six to eleven means  that its checks  
werent fair, reasonable or proportionate.    
Would proportionate checks on Miss Ds loans have indicated to L2G that she would have 
been unable  to repay her loans in a sustainable  manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for the earlier loans wouldve 
involved finding out  for example  about  Miss Ds normal  monthly  outgoings and regular 
financial commitments. And as the lending continued I wouldve expected  L2G to have found  
out more about the concerns, Ive set out in the previous section of this decision,  and to 
assess the potential  impact of granting  further  credit.
As L2G didnt carry out proportionate  checks for these loans, I cant say for sure what 
proportionate checks would most  likely have shown.  So I need to decide whether it is more  
likely than not that a reasonable and proportionate affordability check wouldve told L2G that 
it was unfair  to offer these  loans to Miss D.
To help us understand for ourselves what L2G would more likely than not have discovered if 
it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks  on Miss Ds loans, we asked Miss D 
to provide us with her bank statements. 
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Miss Ds 
financial circumstances, would have  shown that she just about had enough disposable 
income to be able to make the payments to loan one. So at this stage Im inclined to 
conclude that reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented L2G from lending  
loan one to Miss D. 
That said as our adjudicator has explained  I think that Miss Ds clarification regarding her 
rent payments show  that she had no disposable  income at all when she was given  loan two. 
Miss Ds bank statements  also show that, by this stage, Miss D was making payments to 
doorstep lenders and other unsustainable  short-term financers. Equally she had a number of 
direct debits returned in the month  proceeding the application for loan two, indicating  that 
she was struggling  and was borrowing from whomever would lend to her in order to repay 
others and make ends  meet. 
So Im inclined to say that reasonable and proportionate checks  for loan two would clearly 
have shown that this loan was unaffordable and that it was unfair for L2G to provide  this 
loan. 
The position  regarding returned direct debits  and other unsustainable  borrowing continues 
throughout the period  Miss D was borrowing from L2G. But I dont think  its necessary for me 
Ref: DRN436526217to recreate the results  of individual, proportionate  affordability  checks  in order to conclude  
that L2G did something wrong when providing loans three to eleven. And so while Ive 
reviewed and considered  Miss Ds bank statements for the entire period L2G lent to her, I 
havent attempted to recreate proportionate affordability checks  for all of the loans from loan 
three onwards.
Ive not recreated affordability checks because in addition to assessing the affordability of 
each individual  loan provided to Miss D by L2G,  I also think  its fair and reasonable to look at 
the overall pattern of lending. Im mindful here relevant rules and guidance  as summarised 
in the earlier  part of this decision makes it clear  that a lender shouldnt continue  lending 
where the loans  are unsustainable or otherwise  harmful and/or its apparent  that the 
customer may be experiencing financial  difficulties.
And I think that by loan three, L2G ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Miss Ds 
loans had become  unsustainable or otherwise harmful. Ive set out most  of the reasons for 
this in the section on why I dont think L2Gs checks were proportionate. But the factors that 
lead me to conclude  that L2G ought  to have realised  the loans from loan three were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
Miss Ds three late payments on loan two
a CCJ being  issued against Miss D around the time of the missed payments 
the number  of returned direct debit payments on Miss Ds account
Miss Ds applications  for advances  against  income or payday  loans
Miss Ds arrangement to pay the arrears on her council tax.
All of the above were clear  indicators  of Miss D being in a difficult  financial position. And 
bearing in mind L2Gs obligation  to monitor Miss Ds repayment record  and offer assistance 
should it appear that she mightve been  experiencing  financial difficulties, I think  that L2G 
shouldve offered assistance and/or a product  that would allow  her to sustainably  repay  what 
she owed. 
But instead  of doing this, L2G instead kept consolidating  Miss Ds borrowing into further 
loans. Increasing the amount she had to find each month as well as her overall 
indebtedness. And at the time it was apparent (or at the very least  it ought  to have been 
apparent) Miss Ds financial  position  was worsening, L2G actually starting  lending  
significantly more than the maximum permitted by its lending  matrix. So L2G was increasing  
Miss Ds indebtedness  by more than the maximum amount its own criteria permitted even 
though it was clear  her financial  position was deteriorating.
Indeed Miss D started out with a loan requiring 12 monthly payments of around £64 in 
October 2013. And by the time of the final loan Miss D was required to make payments of 
around four times more  for a period of 18 months.  So I cant see how or why L2G can 
reasonably believe  that these loans  werent unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Miss D 
and didnt unfairly and excessively increase her overall indebtedness.    
This taken  together with the fact that L2G knew a large proportion of Miss Ds was made up 
of in work  benefits   which means her prospects of increasing her income and breaking out 
Ref: DRN436526218of this cycle of persistent borrowing  means  I think it acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
providing loans  three  to eleven to Miss D.
So given all of L2Gs obligations  and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account 
the circumstances and everything Ive covered, I think  that L2G acted unfairly in providing 
Miss D with loans three to eleven  (as well as loan two).
Did Miss D lose out as a result of L2Gs shortcomings in relation to loans two to eleven?
I think that Miss D did suffer adverse consequences  as a result  of L2G unfairly  giving her 
loans two to eleven. I think  this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness to L2G by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  over an extended period of time. These loans were 
very expensive. And Miss D ended up having  to commit more and more of her limited 
income towards the monthly payments. Ive already spoken about the impact this had on her 
ability to meet her other essential  commitments.  And I think  that the overall cost of these 
loans unfairly prolonged what was an adverse and precarious financial position for Miss D.
Secondly, the sheer number of these high-cost loans is likely to have  had implications for 
Miss Ds ability  to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence of these loans on 
Miss Ds credit file the less likely  Miss D was able to rehabilitate her finances and regain 
access to mainstream credit. This is especially the case when bearing in mind her other  
affordability issues.
In my view, L2G giving Miss D such a large  number of loans (which it shouldnt  have done) 
over such  an extended  period  of time at a rate normally reserved  for short- term borrowing, 
placed her in a position where  she was unfairly trapped into taking further loans  from L2G as 
no-one else would lend to her. I think that, in these circumstances, Miss D had little choice 
other than to keep  turning to L2G for further loans, because it was the only one prepared to 
continue lending to her bearing in mind everything  that had gone  on previously. And, in my 
view, L2G took advantage of the situation.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  Im intending to say that Miss D lost out 
because L2G unfairly  gave  her loans two to eleven, which  it ought  to have realised were 
unsustainable, harmful and likely  to have been  unaffordable for her. And this means  Im 
intending to tell L2G that it needs  to put things  right.
fair compensation  what  Im intending to say that L2G needs to do to put things  right 
for Miss D
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean L2G putting Miss D in 
the position shed now be in if she hadnt been  given  the loans Im upholding.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Miss D 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds   albeit in reality  what  shes  
effectively done  is repaid  previous loans  with them. So, in these circumstances, I cant  undo  
Ref: DRN436526219whats already been  done. And its simply not possible to put Miss D back  in the position she 
would be in if she hadnt been given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for L2G to put things right in the 
following way.
interest and charges on the loans Miss D shouldnt have been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, L2G continually lending  to Miss D left her in a 
position where she wasnt able to properly  settle her debt. This was because Miss D kept 
having to find additional funds to pay the (increasing) interest and charges on her L2G loans.  
And then she had to borrow again from L2G as making the payments was preventing her 
from meeting her other  commitments, which meant  she incurred more  interest  and charges 
when she did this. So to start with, I think that L2G should refund the interest  and charges 
Miss D paid on loans  two to eleven.
Im also mindful that Miss D lost the use of the funds  she used to pay the interest and 
charges, I now think that L2G needs to refund  to her. As Miss D lost the use of these funds, 
I think that she should be compensated for this. We normally  ask a business  to pay 8% 
simple interest where a consumer hasnt had the use of funds because  its actions resulted in 
something having gone wrong. 
Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our 
usual approach here and I think awarding 8% per year simple interest, on the interest and 
charges that were  paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So L2G should pay Miss D 8% per year simple  interest on the interest and charges she paid 
from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles Miss Ds complaint.
Miss Ds credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Miss Ds complaint about  loans three to eleven  because I think the overall 
pattern of lending increased Miss Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
harmful in some other way. I explained that there were two main  adverse consequences of 
L2G having given Miss D so many loans. Firstly it caused her to pay an excessive amount of 
interest. And Ive already  explained how Miss D should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the sheer number of loans and refinances involved and the extended 
period of time is likely  to have had implications for Miss Ds ability  to access mainstream 
credit. The greater the presence of these  loans on Miss Ds credit  file the less likely Miss D 
was able to rehabilitate her finances and regain  access  to mainstream  credit. And I think my 
direction in relation to Miss Ds credit file needs  to reflect this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Miss Ds credit  
history and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make an informed  decision on whether 
Ref: DRN436526220lend to her, I think that the mere  presence  of this many loans on Miss Ds credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse  information. And I think that this many high-cost loans appearing on 
Miss Ds credit file is likely to continue unfairly adversely affecting  Miss D going  forwards. 
In these circumstances, I think that it is fair and reasonable  for L2G to remove  all reference  
to loans three to ten from Miss Ds credit  file, as the number  of loans in itself is adverse 
information. At this stage,  I cant ask L2G to remove any reference to loan eleven as there is 
still an outstanding  balance.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of      
Miss Ds complaint for L2G to put things right in the following way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loans two to ten. A number of the loans 
appear to have been refinanced. So where  any loans were settled early  as a result  of 
refinancing  L2G will need to work  out the extra Miss D had to pay (through further 
borrowing) as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the settled loans. Any attempt to 
simply add up the total amount advanced  on each occasion will not be in keeping 
with this, as it wont reflect the extra Miss D had to continually borrow and the 
cumulative effect of refinancing; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (or wouldve been  paid) by Miss D to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges added to loan eleven from the outset from the 
remaining balance on loan eleven. As Miss D still has outstanding council tax 
arrears, at present,  and, in part the payments to these  loans have  had an impact on 
that, Im minded to say that L2G shouldnt  deduct  any remaining balance from what  it 
now needs to pay Miss D. Instead  it should pay Miss D any compensation and then 
work out a reasonable repayment  plan for any remaining balance;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ds credit file as a result  of loan 
two;
remove all reference to loans  three  to ten from Miss Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am intending to uphold Miss Ds complaint about Loans 2 Go 
Limited and say it should pay Miss D compensation as set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 3 January 2019 changes my mind, thats 
what Ill tell Loans  2 Go Limited  to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4365262