K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank plc did not pay the interest on her Classic  Plus account.
background 
Mrs D told us she opened a Classic  Plus account in 2014. She says she knew she had to log 
in once every six months and pay in £500  per month  to get interest payments. She logged 
into her online account in 2018 and noticed she had not been getting  interest  payments 
since January 2017. She called TSB and it said she had not met the criteria to qualify  for 
interest because she had not read correspondence  sent to her online account inbox. She 
says it does not say in her terms and conditions or in the current  advertisement  that she 
needs to read all correspondence online to qualify for the interest payments. She thinks this 
is misleading. She wants the lost interest  which  she says is around £150 backdated to the 
date when the interest was stopped.
TSB explained that the terms and conditions  for the account and for paperless accounting 
say the consumer has to log in regularly  to read statements and correspondence to get 
interest payments.  If they hadnt  then the account  would  revert back to paper statements and 
correspondence and no interest would be paid until account  preferences  were actively  
changed back to a paperless  account.  TSB said Mrs Ds account reverted to a paper 
account because  she hadnt logged in to read her correspondence. It changed the account  
back to a fully paperless account on 8 September 2018.
TSB did not think it had made an error but as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to pay Mrs D 
the lost sum of interest  of £24.25 for the period  4 January 2017 to 15 June 2017 which was 
to be paid from 2 October  2018 because it says Mrs Ds account  preference was changed  
back to paperless on 8 September 2018.  TSB offered to review  her credit file if there  had 
been an adverse  impact.  It also paid her £25 for her distress and inconvenience for the delay 
in dealing with her complaint.
Our adjudicator found that consumers  could earn monthly interest if they paid a minimum of 
£500 per month,  registered for Internet  Banking,  paperless statements  and paperless  
correspondence and logged in regularly to read all messages in the account  inbox.  There  
were other conditions relating to paperless correspondence which were all accessible  when  
Mrs D opened her account online.  Our adjudicator could see Mrs Ds account was now fully 
paperless and she was receiving interest  from October 2019  to April 2019. She thought TSB 
made a fair offer to settle the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with our adjudicators  view and 
asked for the matter  to be looked  at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided that TSB has made  a fair offer to settle this complaint. I know 
this will disappoint Mrs D, so Ill explain why.
Mrs D told us she knew she had to log in to her account to get interest payments. I note from 
TSBs customer  notes that it sent Mrs D a reminder  in January 2018 that she hadnt checked 
her online account  to review correspondence  in the last three months. It sent another 
reminder in April 2018 again saying  she hadnt  checked her online account to review her 
correspondence in the last 9 months. She was later told that as she had not opened all of 
Ref: DRN44154712her messages as often  as she should have,  the interest had been suspended. I also note 
from the customer notes  that Mrs Ds account  was made a fully paperless account again on 
8 September 2018.
Mrs D opened the account online and I have  seen that she would have been able to access  
the terms and conditions for the account as well as TSBs additional conditions for paperless 
accounts. The conditions  say that if the consumer does not log in for twelve  consecutive 
months, well start sending you paper correspondence again  and TSB said the conditions 
say that no interest  is paid once the Classic Plus account reverts to a paper account. So 
when TSB stopped the interest payments, I think TSB acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions for paperless  accounts and for the Classis Plus account.  
However, TSB have  offered Mrs D the lost interest  of £24.25  from 4 January 2017 to 15 
June 2017. It offered  to review her credit file if there had been  an adverse impact.  And it has 
also paid her £25 for her distress and inconvenience  for the delay  in dealing with her 
complaint. 
Taking everything into account,  I think this is a fair way to settle this complaint so I will not be 
asking TSB to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has made a fair offer in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4415471