K820x#14complaint
Mr F1 has brought this complaint  as personal representative of the estate of Mr F2. 
Mr F1 says Santander UK Plc was wrong  to offer a mortgage to Mr F2. He asks that 
Santander writes off interest.
background
Mr F1 says Mr F2 suffered from mental  and physical health problems, had been unemployed 
for many years and had a poor credit history and multiple unpaid loans. Mr F1 says he bought 
a property for Mr F2 to live in. He says he retained  an interest in the property, but didnt  
register a charge. Mr F1 says Mr F2 allowed the property  to fall into disrepair because of his 
health problems:  it was uninhabitable and shouldnt have been  used as security for a loan. 
Mr F1 says Santander was irresponsible to offer a mortgage to Mr F2 who had no 
employment history or other means of repaying the debt. He says the stress of worrying  
about losing  his home added to Mr F2s health problems.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr F2 took 
out an interest only mortgage  with Santander in 2007 to re-finance his previous mortgage. The 
mortgage was recommended  by a broker and Santander relied on the information provided  to 
it when making its decision to lend. While this information might not have been correct, 
Santander didnt  know this. It didnt have to ask for proof of income or medical records.  
Mr F1 didnt agree. He said it shouldnt have been possible for Mr F2 to get a loan. There  was 
nothing to substantiate any claimed income  and plenty of evidence Mr F2 was a poor credit  
risk  such as defaults and county court judgements. Mr F1 said there  were  delays  not of his 
making in bringing  the complaint and asked if interest costs can be reduced.  He said hed tried 
to contact the broker that recommended the mortgage to Mr F2 but didnt get a response. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Im very sorry for the circumstances that led to this complaint. Mr F1 provided evidence of 
Mr F2s health problems over many  years and his financial problems. I appreciate how 
upsetting this has been. But what I must do here is consider whether Santander acted 
properly when offering a mortgage to Mr F2.
Mr F2 applied for the mortgage in 2007. At this time,  it was the responsibility of the person 
giving mortgage  advice to check that the loan was affordable. Mr F2s mortgage was 
recommended by a broker. So the broker was responsible for checking it was affordable. 
Santander didnt  have to ask for evidence such as payslips or bank statements; it could rely 
on what the broker told it. I dont  think the information Santander received would have 
alerted it to the problems Mr F1 describes.
Ref: DRN45666182Santander appointed a member of the Royal  Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) to 
value the property so it could decide whether it was suitable security for the loan. Theres  
nothing in the valuation report to alert Santander to a problem.
Santander says Mr F2 maintained mortgage payments until 2012,  when his account fell into 
arrears. It says it has no record of being told about  Mr F2s mental health problems before 2013.
Mr F2 died in late 2013. Santander told Mr F1 it needed a copy  of the grant  of probate before 
giving him information about Mr F2s mortgage  or discussing the account with him. I 
understand there were problems which delayed the application for probate.  The court  order 
appointing Mr F1 as personal representative  was provided to Santander in early  2017. 
Mr F1 says it would  have been easier if Santander  had agreed to deal with him before this. 
But I think its reasonable for Santander to ask for evidence that Mr F1 had authority to deal 
with Mr F2s estate. 
Mr F1 says Mr F2s health problems, lack of employment and debt problems meant he 
shouldnt have been offered loans. But I dont think Santander was aware  of this when it 
offered the mortgage to him. Mr F2 borrowed the money from Santander and I think  its 
reasonable that it asks for the debt to be repaid  from his estate.
Mr F1 asks that Santander  considers  the circumstances  including  the time that has passed  
due to the delays in applying for probate  when deciding whether to write  off any interest. 
I understand why he asks for this and he can make this request to Santander. But I dont 
think, in the circumstances,  its fair and reasonable to require Santander to write off interest  
applied to Mr F2s mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F1, as personal  
representative for Mr F2s estate,  to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4566618