K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has refused 
to remove certain late payment markers  from his credit file. 
background
Mr W had a charge card with American Express.  One month, because  of a change  in 
circumstances, he foresaw hed have difficulty in paying off the whole balance on the card as 
required. Mr W phoned American Express who agreed he could pay off the balance  over a 
longer period. 
Mr W paid off the balance  as agreed and then cancelled his American Express charge card 
account. But he was disappointed to discover that American Express  had meanwhile 
registered adverse  information  late payment markers  on his credit file. Mr W says:
After his phone conversation  with American Express  when his longer period for 
payment had been agreed,  hed been left with the impression American Express 
wouldnt register any late payment markers. American Express hadnt told him in the 
conversation that late payment markers would be registered.
The markers had led to him being refused other  credit.
American Express didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. They  said theyd listened to the phone  
conversation and in it theyd  told Mr W late payment markers would be registered. They also 
pointed to the terms and conditions of the account, which set out how late payment 
information could  be registered with credit  reference agencies.
Mr W didnt accept American  Expresss  response  to his complaint and referred it to the 
ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ws complaint. He said he couldnt  conclude, on the 
evidence, that Mr W had been refused credit solely because of the late payment  markers 
registered by American  Express. But the adjudicator thought American  Express  should have 
warned Mr W in the phone conversation that American Express  would register  late payment 
markers, and if American Express  had done  so Mr W would have avoided the markers by 
repaying the charge card balance without  delay from another  source. So the adjudicator 
recommended American Express should remove the markers  from Mr Ws credit file.
American Express didnt  accept the adjudicators  conclusions. They  said they had a duty to 
register late payment markers  as they reflected the true position. They were sceptical about 
Mr Ws ability to repay  the debt from another source.  And they didnt accept that, even  if 
theyd failed to mention  late payment  markers in the phone  conversation,  it should have led 
to Mr W assuming there would be none. The terms and conditions  to which Mr W had 
agreed included  his agreement to late payment information being shared with credit  
reference agencies.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint American  Express  
but I too have  concluded  the complaint succeeds.
Ref: DRN45154212Ive reached largely  the same conclusions as the adjudicator. My additional comments are:
I accept American Expresss basic duty is to report late payments. But if 
American Express has made a mistake  and as a result a customer  pays  late where 
he or she would  otherwise not have paid late, it seems to me that a credit  file without 
a late payment marker more accurately reflects the true position  than a credit file with 
a late payment marker.
The terms and conditions say American Express may report  late payment  
information, not will. So theres a discretion. Reporting of late payments doesnt 
automatically follow on from late payments, contractually at least. 
As I understand  the situation, American Express listened to their recording of the 
material phone conversation when initially investigating Mr Ws complaint. But they 
then failed to retain  the recording. Thats unfortunate for American  Express because 
the phone  recording  was their one crucial  piece of evidence.
In the absence of the phone recording,  I have  to decide what I think  was said in the 
conversation, on the balance  of probabilities. 
Ive concluded  that, after the conversation,  Mr W didnt think  thered be any late 
payment markers,  if he paid as agreed. I say this because  I think  hed have paid what  
was due using  another  source,  which Im satisfied  existed and was available  to him, if 
hed thought late payment markers  might  or would  be registered  on his credit  file.
However, I also need to decide whether American Express  was responsible  for Mr W 
believing thered be no late payment markers.
American Express would be responsible  if I decided  that either (a) American Express  
had a duty in the conversation to tell Mr W late payment markers would be registered 
or (b) the conversation developed in such a way that Mr W reasonably thought late 
payment markers  wouldnt  be registered and American Express  unreasonably failed 
to correct that misapprehension.
From  the notes of the phone conversation I see the possibility was raised of late 
payment fees being refunded. This may have encouraged Mr W in his belief that late 
payment markers  werent going  to be registered.  
Based  on the facts  of this case and without  the benefit of the phone recording, I think  
the fair conclusion for me to draw is that American Express  was responsible  for Mr W 
wrongly believing late payment  markers wouldnt be registered. In all likelihood the 
conversation developed  in such a way that Mr W, as American  Express  should have 
realised, reasonably formed the impression that late payment markers wouldnt be 
registered, but American Express  failed to correct that false impression. 
So I think its fair and reasonable that American  Express should remove the late 
payment markers.
For completeness, I confirm I too have been unable to conclude Mr W was refused 
credit only because  of the American Express late payment markers. 
my final decision
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) should  immediately remove  the late 
payment markers  from Mr Ws credit file for May, June, July and August 2018. 
Ref: DRN45154213Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4515421