K822xcomplaint
Mrs J complains that Lex Autolease Ltd made  errors in recording her account details, gave 
incorrect information to credit reference agencies and wrote to her to say she was in arrears.
background 
Mrs J had a lease agreement with Lex which ended in 2017.  In the summer of 2018  she 
discovered that Lex had notified the credit  reference agencies that she had missed  all the 
monthly repayments. She contacted Lex and it claimed to have remedied the problem, 
offered compensation of £400  and told her the account was closed. A few months later she 
noticed her credit report was still showing arrears  and contacted Lex again. She says she 
was told there was an IT issue and then the business failed  to keep her informed of what it 
as doing to rectify the problem.
She complained and Lex said it was awaiting a fix from its IT department.  Mrs J brought her 
complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our adjudicators  who 
recommended it be upheld. He spoke with Lex and as a result  it contacted  the agency used 
by Mrs J to get it to amend its records. However,  there was more than one record  showing  
for the same account and Mrs Js report remained inaccurate.
Lex carried out further research and identified  that when her account had been set up an 
internal error had caused it to appear to be in arrears. This seemed to be the root cause of 
the problem. However,  it proved challenging to arrange for Mrs Js credit file to be properly 
updated. In due course the agreement was removed from her credit  file which was not as 
Mrs J requested. The following month the account  was showing on her credit file, but despite 
being noted as settled  it showed a previous and incorrect balance.
Our adjudicator noted that Lex had said it had written to the agency to ask the credit file to 
be amended to show the correct situation,  but it was unable  to provide the original email. He 
pointed out that Mrs J had raised a complaint with this service  in August 2018 and it hadnt 
been resolved  after 10 months. He said Lex should ensure her credit  file was properly 
updated and pay her £550 compensation.  He didnt think  Lex should pay her credit reference  
agency membership  as Mrs J had requested since she could make use of free access to her 
credit file.
Mrs J didnt agree and said that she was concerned that Lex still hadnt  updated her records. 
She also was worried  that the errors  may affect  any future mortgage application she might  
make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Js irritation at the Lexs inability to remedy what, at face value, seems 
to be a straightforward matter. I fear that the original  error caused deeper problems than Lex 
first presumed and its early attempts  at fixing the problem fell short. Of course  there is an 
added complexity  in that the credit reference  agencies are ultimately responsible for 
compiling the credit  reports and do so based  on information from a multitude of sources.  
Ref: DRN47505302It is possible that part of the problem lies with a misunderstanding  between Lex and the 
particular credit agency which Mrs J has been  using. Looking  at recent communications with 
Lex it seems that it has advised  the agency  of the correct details. However,  I gather this is 
being done outside the normal run of information which Lex shares and it is possible that the 
computer system running in the background is automatically sending out erroneous 
information. I trust this is not the case.
However, Lex has made errors in supplying incorrect information to the agencies  and it is 
only right that it compensates Mrs J for those errors. I am not aware that Mrs J has suffered  
any financial  loss though I appreciate she has encountered  trouble and upset at Lexs 
inability to deal with the problem. I have taken account of the issue she faced when changing 
banks and overall I believe the sum of £550 as suggested by the adjudicator is fair and 
reasonable.
However, I can see that Mrs Js main concern is that her credit status is accurate and up to 
date. To that end I will require Lex to ensure  it has done all that it can to ensure this 
happens.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Lex Autolease  Ltd to 
Ensure it notifies  the credit reference agencies that the agreement is settled with £0 
owed and, if she wishes it should show evidence to Mrs J that it has done so.
Pay Mrs J £550 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4750530