K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold Mr E payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to cover a credit  card.  The 
credit card started  1989, but this policy was sold in 2001. The PPI was sold by phone. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Barclays  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  a different view to 
that of the adjudicator, so I wrote  provisional  decision  and asked for comments. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because  it appeared 
that Barclays didnt  explain all the important terms clearly, in particular the one about 
pre-existing medical conditions. This would have  made it unlikely Mr E could  make  a 
claim if it related to a long-term medical condition he had. So the policy wouldnt have 
met Mr Es needs, and Barclays  should have pointed this out to him. 
But Ive reached  a different view. I agree its not clear whether Barclays  pointed out 
the possible limitation in the policy. But I also need  to assess  whether its likely  that 
full information  would  have changed whether  Mr E took the PPI. Although of course I 
cant be sure, I think it probably  wouldnt have.  I say this because Mr E has said the 
condition was stabilized  by medication  and I took no time off work. So I dont think 
hed have expected to make a claim arising from that medical condition  and hed 
still have been  able make  claims arising from other  medical  conditions,  or if he was 
made redundant. And I cant see any other reason why a recommendation of the 
policy would have been unsuitable  to Mr Es circumstances.
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold. But I 
dont currently think there  are. Ill explain why.
Mr E has said I was pressured  into having the PPI as it was implied that without it 
there would be no finance and I was not aware that PPI was an optional  product 
and could have  been refused. However  it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
happened unless  there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone  
has said another person or organisation has done  something wrong,  fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation  should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. And Barclays  has provided  
a script that it says its advisers had to use when selling this policy. This does support 
Barclays claim that the PPI was presented  as a choice. Im also aware that this all 
happened about 18 years  ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr E didnt remember 
exactly what happened. Overall, without stronger  evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI 
was added without  Mr Es consent  or that unfair  pressure was put on him. 
Ref: DRN46303052Its hard to know how well Barclays  explained  the costs and benefits of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr E took the PPI.
Its possible Barclays didnt clearly point  out the other main things the policy  didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr E would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely he 
was eligible for the policy,  and hed be paying  for it monthly, so he could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if his situation  changed.
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  above, Im mot upholding this complaint.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4630305