K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1995 
alongside a mortgage. Mr G and Ms W say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax  at the time, 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr G and Ms W say the PPI wasnt discussed at the time of sale.  But theyve also said that 
at the time it was emphasised to them that their mortgage repayments  would be significant 
and that this insurance cover was important. So theyve not been consistent  in their 
recollection of the sale. And so its difficult to rely on what theyve said about  not having  any 
knowledge of the policy, without any evidence  to support this. But Ive thought the comments  
theyve made and I think its likely that as this was an advised  sale Mr G and Ms W were  told 
they should take out the cover. But that doesnt  mean they were told they had to take out the 
cover or that they didnt consent to it.
BoS says it wouldve discussed the PPI with Mr G and Ms W and wouldve obtained their 
explicit consent before adding  the policy to their account. Its also provided a copy of Mr G 
and Ms Ws mortgage application  which was completed in branch. Although this form was 
completed electronically, it includes personal  details about Mr G and Ms Ws mortgage 
needs, so I think  this wouldve been completed by the BoS sales person following  a 
discussion. In the mortgage application  there is a pre-printed Y in the box to indicate that 
Mr G and Ms W wished  to take out PPI. And Ive also seen  a copy  of a separate PPI 
application form which includes  details of Mr Gs eligibility for the policy  and benefit  
requirements  so I think this was also completed following a discussion about  the policy.  
Both forms have been signed and dated   so I think these forms reflected what  Mr G and 
Ms W wanted at the time. So I think BoS made  it clear that Mr G and Ms W didnt have to 
take out the PPI and they chose to take it out in Mr Gs name only  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this now.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr G and Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
Mr G (as the insured party)   and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, 
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr G and Ms W say that they had sick pay and savings at the time that they couldve relied  
on to keep up their mortgage repayments. But upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months for an unemployment  claim  and up to 24 months  for an accident 
and sickness claim  and this wouldve been  paid in addition to his sick pay and their 
savings. This means if Mr G was unable  to work, they were  free to use these funds to pay 
other outstanding debts  or expenses. And as the mortgage is likely to have been their most 
significant financial commitment, and as Mr G was the main earner at the time, the PPI 
Ref: DRN46875802provided them with some additional  financial security. So I still think the PPI was suitable  for 
them.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr G and Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out in Mr Gs name  only - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Ms W. But 
BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Ms W because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr G and Ms W about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr G and 
Ms W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Ms W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr G and Ms W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G and Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4687580