K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) unfairly settled a 
claim against his motor insurance policy and provided poor service in its claims-handling.
 
background
LV told Mr J in December 2017 that another insurer had contacted  it about  an accident in 
which he was involved. It said another driver  claimed that at 11.15 am on 14 December 2017 
Mr Js car had reversed into her stationary vehicle. Mr J said he could prove he was at home 
at the time and that his car was in his garage. He provided CCTV footage  and stills. 
LV said the other driver had provided photos of his car at the scene, but Mr J said it must 
have been a cloned number plate. LV said the photos also showed the other car was 
identical to Mr Js car. And the driver  was wearing a bright yellow garment. Mr Js footage 
and stills showed  he was wearing a jacket of the same colour that day. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Js complaint. She thought the evidence  wasnt  
conclusive, so she asked LV to consider marking the claim non-fault.  LV said it didnt think 
that would  be reasonable. It thought the time stamp on Mr Js CCTV footage could have 
been wrong, or that the time on the other  drivers  phone could be wrong.  It said Mr Js car 
couldnt have  been in two places at the same time. It didnt think  it could be shown that the 
other drivers  photos were of a cloned  car. On the balance of probabilities, LV didnt think it 
would have a reasonable prospect  of defending the claim in court.
Our investigator told Mr J that LV had provided an extra piece of information  that wasnt in its 
original file. A note from its engineer said he thought the damage  to the two cars could be 
consistent. She also said that in cases where  the other drivers claim isnt for a large amount, 
we think its reasonable to settle the claim rather than take it to court. 
Mr J said there were  also service issues to address, including the fact that one of LVs 
advisors had called him a liar. The investigator asked LV to provide all the call recordings 
between it and Mr J. Having listened to them, she said she didnt  find fault with its customer 
service. Mr J asked  for a review  of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also listened  to all the call recordings. I think Mr J comes across  as credible and 
distressed about  being accused of involvement  in the accident. I think he was convinced  
from the start that he could prove beyond doubt  that he wasnt  there.
LV says theres  a gap in the CCTV coverage it was given. The gap covers the time the 
accident happened. LV thinks it would have  been possible for Mr J to drive the four miles to 
the accident location and back  within the missing 18 minutes of coverage.  I think that would  
have been difficult, given  the time constraints.  But LV was faced with timed  photos taken by 
the other driver of a car identical to Mr Js car driving  away  from the accident. 
I think both Mr J and LV made efforts to ensure that the full footage could  be viewed by LV. It 
seems that different  formats were tried without success. The CCTV footage and stills Mr J 
Ref: DRN48695032sent us appear  to show that 10 minutes after the time of the accident he drove his car out of 
his garage. But thats assuming the time shown on the footage is correct. LVs view is that as 
the car couldnt  have been  in two places at once,  the timing on the CCTV footage  or on the 
other drivers  phone must be out. I think thats a reasonable conclusion  to have reached.         
Mr J initially said there was no damage  to his car. The engineer found old damage  to it, plus 
a small dent in the centre of his rear bumper. Mr J says that was also old damage,  but as he 
didnt report it to LV at the time, theres  no evidence  of that. And the location of the damage 
fits with the description  of the accident  given by the other driver.  The engineer couldnt be 
sure that the damage to Mr Js car was consistent with that to the other drivers car, but he 
said it could be. I think that must have been  very frustrating for Mr J. 
Mr J is adamant that the car at the scene  of the accident had a cloned  registration plate. He 
says he told the police  that when  he spoke to them shortly after the accident. LV asked 
whether the police had investigated  Mr Js concerns. He said he didnt know.  LV thought 
most people  would have been  concerned  enough to check.  
LV was concerned by the fact that the car involved in the accident was identical to Mr Js 
car. It struggled with the idea that an identical car with a cloned plate was photographed only 
four miles from Mr Js home and that the driver  was wearing  the same  colour  garment that 
Mr J was wearing  that day. I dont  think the colour of the clothing  is conclusive. But I can see 
why LV thought it was another factor that it would have to overcome should it try to defend 
the other drivers claim.
Under the policy, LV has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. But it has to act 
reasonably in exercising  its discretion. I understand Mr Js frustration with the situation,  but 
overall, I dont think LVs decision on liability was unreasonable.  It decided  that on the 
balance of probabilities the evidence in support of Mr Js account wasnt  sufficient to allow it 
to defend the other drivers claim successfully. 
I think the timing of the CCTV  footage  and /or the other drivers photos could be challenged, 
as LV suggested. That meant Mr Js defence largely rested on LV being able to show  that 
the car at the scene of the accident  wasnt his. It didnt think  it would  be able to do that. In 
my opinion, that was a reasonable  conclusion to reach. Mr J said the car must have been  
cloned  but LV thought that was an assumption  that couldnt be proven as fact.
As a result of having a fault claim on his policy, Mr Js no claims discount (NCD)  was 
reduced. Hes very unhappy about that. But its standard  practice  for NCDs to be reduced  in 
these circumstances.
When it issued its final response letter, LV accepted  that it had caused  a delay in waiting 
four weeks  to order a consistency report.  It also accepted  that it didnt make promised calls 
to Mr J. It offered him £75 compensation, which I think was reasonable.
Mr J told us he was unhappy with other aspects of LVs service. He said an advisor  had 
called him a liar. The call recordings  show that Mr J thought on more  than one occasion that 
LVs advisors were questioning the truth of what hed said. I think  the advisors had to point 
out to Mr J where they thought the evidence was questionable. That may have come  across 
as their not believing  Mr Js account,  which  would  naturally have been upsetting for him. 
On some occasions, LVs advisors queried how Mr J knew details of the other drivers car. It 
seems Mr J had been shown photos  by the police. But one advisor  stated very firmly that the 
Ref: DRN48695033police didnt show such photos to consumers. I can see why the way he expressed  his view 
led to Mr J thinking he was accusing Mr J of lying. When challenged by Mr J, the advisor  
said that in his experience the police didnt share  photos. But I think he should have 
expressed his view more  carefully in the first place,  to avoid causing unnecessary offence.               
Apart from the example given above,  I think LVs advisors offered Mr J reasonable service 
overall. I think the claim was a difficult one to deal with, as the evidence was hard to assess 
and much of it was disputed. One example was the dispute about whether Mr Js son could 
be considered  to be an independent witness. Mr J disagreed strongly with LV about that, and 
I understand his viewpoint. But I think LV was right to say that in court  Mr Js sons evidence  
wouldnt be given much weight, given their relationship. 
I think it was hard for LV to reach  a fair and reasonable conclusion here, whilst Mr J found it 
difficult to see why it wasnt  an open and shut case. But insurers dont generally settle 
claims if they think theres a reasonable prospect of disputing them successfully. It isnt in 
their interests to do so. But in the circumstances here, I can see why LV didnt think the 
prospects of success in court were  good.  
I have great  sympathy  for the position  Mr J has found himself in. But Ive thought very 
carefully about all the circumstances surrounding  his complaint  and how LV reached  its 
conclusions. I dont  think I can say LV acted unreasonably in deciding to settle the claim, or 
that its service on the whole was poor.  That means  I cant uphold Mr Js complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4869503