K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a lorry driver. He has told us he was entitled to at least 
six months full sick pay, redundancy pay and death  in service benefit. Mr J has said he was 
in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and death  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Js credit  card balance  in the event of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost 79p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract interest. 
Barclays has sent us information to show that the credit card account  closed in 2004.
Mr Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Js representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr J wouldnt have taken  out 
the policy  and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Js representatives believe there  to 
be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr J about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Barclays should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr J and the impact  they 
would have  had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr J received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN43192302my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. However, Barclays paid Mr J compensation  of £484.50 in relation to this issue  in 
October 2018, which it now says was paid in error. However, Barclays  has confirmed that it 
will not seek to re-coup  this money  from Mr J.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Js case.  
 
Ref: DRN43192303I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave  advice, whether  it advised Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make  an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I must 
then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr J know he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that Mr J filled in at home  and then returned by post.  
There is a separate  section for PPI with yes and no boxes that could be ticked  to either  
request or decline the policy. Mr J has ticked the yes box. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr J knew  the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN43192304did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr J cant  remember.   Looking  at 
what happened when  Barclays sold Mr J the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
The policy was sold by post with no direct input  from any member of Barclays  staff during 
the application process.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr J. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr J to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Barclays has provided us with Mr Js application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. 
It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he would have received, including 
the policy terms and conditions   which I accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to 
policies like Mr Js. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr J at the time, I dont think  Barclays gave Mr J the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against unemployment, accident, sickness and death.  It also informed Mr J 
that the relevant premiums would be debited  from the account.
The information provided would have given Mr J a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was Barclayss responsibility  to draw to Mr Js attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr J, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Barclays adequately drew 
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN43192305In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Js. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr Js representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much  of the premium went to the business rather  than the insurer. 
-the common  law duty of utmost good  faith means the business shouldnt  have  just told 
Mr J about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr J? To what extent did Mr J suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr J. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr J suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr J would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mr J says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr J had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr J chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr J thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr J has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr J ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form. But I accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the on-going 
cost information.  So while Mr J didnt  know  some things, the ultimate  position  in the event of 
a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Ref: DRN43192306Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought he had bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr J knew about  in the 12 
months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr J wasnt 
a permanent  employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mr J be unable to do his 
own job or any similar job which his experience, education  or training qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr J pause  for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he would have 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr J didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  he had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr J would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr J had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  job which  in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it might 
have played into his thinking  about  what he would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly concerned 
given that if Mr J was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances  
that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr J would  still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
he thought he was and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time,  
notwithstanding his employment benefits. And in those circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that he would have taken  out the policy in any event.   
Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
Ref: DRN43192307That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr J would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken out 
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mr J compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr J thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr J, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr J and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN43192308my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4319230