K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua  and Marbles)  was irresponsible  when it 
increased the credit limit on his credit card accounts which  were  unaffordable.
background
Mr S said hed recently experienced some  financial  distress and was unable to make full 
payments on the accounts. He said his Aqua card ending  8678 (now 6373) was opened in 
2008 and the limit increased from £250 in January 2014 to a limit of £3,150.  A Marbles  
account ending  5555 increased from around  £900  when  the account  was opened in £2,015 
to £2,500. He had a second Aqua card ending  4615 between July 2013 and February 2017 
which increased from £250 to £400  before it was combined with account 8678. The total 
lending from NewDay is £5,650. He said NewDay shouldve been  aware  he was only making 
the minimum payments  and he was using almost all his credit  limit. It shouldve  checked his 
credit record  and seen  hed taken out a lot of other  credit including payday loans. And he 
said it was his understanding that NewDays company policy was not to allow two Aqua 
cards. 
NewDay said before  increasing the limit on his card accounts it reviewed internal and 
external data and Mr S met its lending  criteria. It said it gave him the option of keeping his 
existing credit limits and to opt out of any increases in the future. It said that it generally 
doesnt allow two products  of the same  type to be open at the same time. But small 
differences in the information provided in the applications does allow  a second account to be 
accepted. And it said the Marbles account was opened in line with its business policy.
Our adjudicator thought NewDay had dealt  with Mr Ss complaint fairly. She could see there 
were minor differences in his second application for an Aqua  card and on his application  for 
his Marbles credit card account so she thought  NewDay had followed its policy  about  
multiple credit card accounts.  And she could  see his income  was increasing and the number  
of defaults had decreased. His payments were being made  on time and he was keeping 
within his credit limits. So she didnt think NewDay had been irresponsible  in lending to him.
Mr S didnt agree with this. He said a difference  in income between  applications by the same 
individual is an error in respect of this policy.  And a reduction in the number of defaults 
from nine to six is hardly indicative of a well managed income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
NewDay has a responsibility  to complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr S would  be able to repay  the credit in a sustainable way. The checks  a lender 
should carry out should be proportionate to the size of the lending and the cost of 
repayment. But we cant say that a lender shouldve done any particular check. Based on the 
information available to it, the increase in Mr Ss credit limits met NewDays lending criteria.  
Banks are entitled to set that criteria  using commercial judgement and I cant find that 
NewDay acted unreasonably  in applying it to these increases. 
Ref: DRN44765322But the next question I have to ask is whether it was fair for NewDay  to increase Mr Ss 
credit limits based on what it knew about him through those checks? In other words, was Mr 
S able to afford  the credit  in a sustainable  way?
I can see from Mr Ss account history that he appeared to be managing his accounts  without 
difficulty. So I think the credit limits  were affordable at the time. Mr S says hes now in 
financial difficulties but I have to consider whether the increases in credit  limits  were  
affordable at the time of the increases and as Ive already said I think they were.
Ive considered whether it was irresponsible for NewDay to have given Mr S the credit  limit 
increases. Irresponsible lending is not just about  whether  Mr S could afford to repay the 
credit or not  its whether  theres  another reason he shouldnt  have had the credit. This will 
depend on his personal circumstances. 
Mr S said he had other credit cards and a number  of payday loans. And he thought NewDay 
shouldve been  aware of those and that it was acting irresponsibly when  it increased  his 
debt. But before NewDay offered to increase his credit limits it reviewed a combination of 
internal and externa data and it said Mr S met its financial difficulty  and affordability criteria in 
line with its policy on responsible lending. So Im satisfied NewDay carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr S would  be able to repay any credit in a sustainable 
way. So even if Mr S had other credit including payday loans I cant  fairly say NewDay  was 
irresponsible when  it offered to increase his credit limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4476532