K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains about that she was sold an unsuitable mortgage  by a broker working for 
Quilter Financial Limited. Mrs E is unhappy  that she was advised to take out an interest  only 
mortgage and says this product wasnt suitable for her for a number of reasons. She says 
Quilters advice has led to her selling her property and has caused  her financial loss and 
upset.
Mrs Es complaint has been  brought by her daughter on her behalf,  who I will refer to as 
Miss E.
background
In July 2011 Mrs E met with a mortgage broker. She was 65 at the time and retired.  She was 
interested in borrowing around £30,000 and says she wanted to explore releasing  equity  
from her home. Mrs E says she asked the broker about an equity release  mortgage but was 
advised by Quilter that an interest only mortgage  was more suitable  for her needs and 
cheaper.
Mrs E took out a £30,000 interest only mortgage over an eight year term. The mortgage  had 
a two year tracker rate which expired in 2013. 
In 2017 Mrs Es mortgage lender  wrote  to her asking  how she planned to repay the 
mortgage at the end of the term. The letter said shed previously agreed to sell the property 
to repay  the loan in full in 2019 and it wanted to check this was still her plan.
Miss E asked her mothers  mortgage lender what options she had. Miss E says the lender 
wouldnt look to extend the mortgage term as her mother  was reaching the maximum age it 
would lend to within its age policy. It also said that no lower  interest  rates were available to 
Mrs E. By this time Mrs E was struggling to maintain the interest payments on the mortgage. 
Miss E complained to the mortgage lender in February 2018 on behalf of her mother. And 
she met with the broker to raise her concerns directly with him soon after.
In October  2018 Miss E brought the complaint to us. Quilter  asked us to allow it some time to 
provide a final response before we looked into things. It issued a final response to the 
complaint on 11 January  2019 saying it thought this complaint  had been  made  out of time.  
Our investigator thought this complaint was something we could investigate  now.  I issued a 
decision in November 2019 explaining why I had determined that this complaint had been 
brought to us within the applicable time limits.
Our investigator then looked at the merits of this complaint.  His view was that the complaint  
should be upheld.  Our investigator thought Quilter didnt appear  to have explored and 
explained all Mrs Es options to her in the recommendations made. He though Quilter should 
refund the broker fee (plus interest at 8% simple) and pay £500  for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs E. 
Miss E accepted  our investigators findings  although she was disappointed that the 
compensation awarded wasnt  higher  considering the upset this had caused  her mother. 
Quilter didnt accept the investigators findings  and it gave some further evidence,  including  a 
statement from the broker recollecting  what happened at the time the advice was given. 
Ref: DRN45758352In summary  Quilter said:
-How can the Investigator say the advice is not wholly unsuitable and yet then make 
an award to Mrs E?
-Mrs E had already  explored equity release before coming to see Quilter and shed 
already decided that an equity  release mortgage was a relatively  expensive  way of 
raising money;
-The whole thinking behind the recommendation was that when the interest  only 
mortgage expired  Mrs E could consider taking out an equity release mortgage  at that 
time;
-Mrs E is mixed  up in her recollection  of Quilters broker and a previous person she 
had spoken to about equity release  mortgages;
-Quilter disagrees about the advice it gave being  poor or unsuitable. Quilter  says it 
was suitable and it was the most  cost-efficient option for Mrs E.
Quilter asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint, and so this complaint has been 
passed to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate the arguments that Miss E makes, and why she makes this complaint. I can 
understand why Miss E feels so strongly about the dilemma  that her mother  faced struggling 
to meet  increasing  monthly payments of interest over the mortgage term. I am also sensitive 
to Mrs Es distress when she faced an apparent lack of options when the mortgage came to 
an end. 
Miss E also makes  a complaint about  the actions  of the mortgage  lender. Thats  something 
that will need to be explored as part of a separate complaint.
This complaint is about the actions  of the mortgage  broker working for Quilter,  and the 
advice and sale of the mortgage  taken out in 2011.
Ive looked carefully  at the documents completed at the time the mortgage was sold.  This 
includes a detailed fact find of Mrs Es financial situation, and a recommendation from the 
broker in which he advises Mrs E to apply for a certain type of mortgage. Ive also looked  at 
the mortgage application completed by Mrs E with the brokers help.
I note the brokers  report refers to Mrs E as having an adventurous attitude  to risk. Within 
the report, an adventurous risk appetite is further defined  as:
The client understands  that at the end of the mortgage period the lender will require the 
repayment of the loan in full and unless the client had sufficient capital available  from 
elsewhere the client would either have to sell the property to repay the loan or the lender 
would repossess it. 
Ive thought about Mrs Es appetite for risk, and her specific circumstances at the time the 
advice was given,  to see if I consider the brokers advice might  have  been  unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN45758353interest payments  throughout  the mortgage  term
At the time Mrs E took out the mortgage  shed already  retired and was on a fixed  income  of 
around £600 per month. Mrs E recalls  shed wanted to explore equity release mortgages, to 
prevent her needing  to make monthly  payments of interest when she was on a low, fixed 
income. She says the advisor told her it would be cheaper to take out an interest only 
mortgage. 
Mrs E was advised to take out an interest  only mortgage over an eight year term. The 
mortgage was on a base rate tracker, and the interest payments were £74.75 per month 
when Mrs E took out the loan. The loan had an introductory rate of 2.49% over bank base 
rate. After  two years this reverted to the lenders standard  variable rate. The broker says in 
his recommendation  this could mean that your monthly payments increase substantially. 
Assuming interest rates  remain  unchanged, I believe the payments will still remain  affordable 
for you. 
I think this was a considerable risk for Mrs E, and one that Im not persuaded that Mrs E was 
looking to take,  or one that was necessarily  good  advice for her circumstances at the time 
the mortgage was sold. As it is Mrs E says she struggled with the rising interest cost of the 
mortgage. There were other  options available to Mrs E that wouldnt have led to her making  
interest payments  each  month. I cant see from the evidence  at the time of the sale that 
these were explored with her as options. 
Instead Mrs E was advised  to take out a loan, secured on her home.  If interest costs had 
increased, as they did, and Mrs E was unable to pay this interest  she faced the prospect of 
losing her home in her retirement. I accept  that the broker has now said the plan all along 
was that if Mrs E ever started to struggle she could move to equity release. But theres no 
record of that from the recommendation  made at the time and Mrs E doesnt recall  this was 
the plan. Overall, Im not persuaded that the broker did enough to explore Mrs Es ability or 
appetite to manage the risks of the mortgage she was sold, especially in a rising  interest  rate 
environment.
repayment risk at the end of the mortgage  term
As a pensioner with a limited  knowledge of financial matters, and managing  on a relatively 
low income, I do struggle with the advisors  categorisation  of Mrs Es risk appetite.
The brokers  recommendation was for Mrs E to take out an investment to repay the 
mortgage at the end of the eight  year term. This appears to be in direct  contrast  to the more  
recent broker testimony that the plan all along  was for Mrs E to eventually  take out an equity 
release mortgage.  Its unclear to me, from the recorded advice at the time the mortgage was 
sold, how the broker thought that would be possible for someone  on Mrs Es pension income 
to pay enough  into an investment that would repay her mortgage  in eight years. 
Mrs E says she was led to believe that shed be able to extend  the term of the interest only 
mortgage at the end of the eight  year term, rather than have to sell the property at that point. 
I think there probably was an understanding that further interest only borrowing  might have 
been available to Mrs E at the end of the term. As it happens, lender appetite for interest  
only borrowing and changes to mortgage  regulation have made interest  only mortgages 
much harder to take out than they had previously been. It seems this option  was no longer 
available to her  if it ever had been - as the loan approached its end date.
Ref: DRN45758354Quilter has more recently said that it was the intention all along for Mrs E to refinance  at the 
end of the interest only mortgage term onto an equity release. If that was the advice, it isnt 
apparent from the documentation at the time. It also isnt what  Mrs E recollects. Quilter has 
said that we should rely on what the broker remembers from the time.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, we decide what we think most likely 
happened on the balance of probabilities. The documentation from the time makes no record  
of exploration of equity  release as an option,  or that Mrs E had already decided  this was too 
expensive having  met with another broker. I appreciate that this is what the broker  is saying 
happened. However, it directly challenges  both Mrs Es testimony and whats  recorded in the 
documentary evidence.  
Having reviewed all the evidence presented to me, I dont consider that Mrs E was able to 
make an informed decision to go ahead with an interest only mortgage. I say this because  
Im not persuaded that Quilter fully explored the benefits and risks of this mortgage strategy 
compared to her alternatives. I would expect  options  to have been presented and discussed  
with Mrs E, such  as equity release, even if alternative products could potentially  end up 
being more expensive. For example, an equity release mortgage does bear the advantage of 
no monthly payments  of interest to be made  by Mrs E for the term of the mortgage and, 
since its for life, there isnt the refinancing risk for her at the end of the mortgage term. That 
isnt apparent from the recommendation  made  by the broker.
What do I think should  happen now to put things right?
Mrs E paid a fee to the broker for the advice  she received from Quilter.  As Ive said, I think  
the advice given was, at best, limited in its scope. 
Because I dont consider Quilters advice was of a standard I think Mrs E should  have been 
able to expect  I think  its appropriate in the circumstances  for the fee for the advice to be 
refunded to Mrs E. Interest should be applied to this fee at 8% simple until the date Quilter  
repays the fee to Mrs E.
Ive then thought about  whether  Mrs E has suffered direct financial loss as a result of the 
advice given. I am of the view that an interest only mortgage would have been cheaper 
overall than Mrs E taking  out an equity release mortgage. Thats  not to say the cheapest  
product is the most suitable  but I am only trying to establish financial loss as a result of the 
advice here.  While an equity release plan might, overall, have been  more suitable for Mrs E, 
if shed taken one the balance now would  be higher  than the balance  of her interest  only 
mortgage. And that is a course of action that Mrs E could have explored  when  the mortgage 
came to an end. So I wont be asking Quilter to compensate Mrs E for financial loss as a 
result of the mortgage  sold. 
Ive also considered compensation for the trouble and upset caused  to Mrs E. I am 
persuaded the advice given by Quilter  caused  Mrs E unnecessary worry and distress. Mrs 
Es faced  selling her home, and shes had to cope with the increasing monthly pressure of 
rising interest payments on a limited pension income  for years.  I think its reasonable that 
Quilter pay Mrs E £500 for the trouble and upset  the advice caused  to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Quilter Financial Limited is upheld.
Ref: DRN45758355To settle  the matter I direct Quilter  Financial Limited to:
-Refund its broker fee to Mrs E, plus interest at 8% simple. Interest should be 
calculated from the date the fee was paid by Mrs E, to the date that the settlement is 
made to her;
-Pay £500 for the trouble and upset its advice had caused  Mrs E.
Quilter Financial Limited should confirm the amount of any tax deducted  by providing Mrs E 
with a tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E, or Miss E 
on her behalf, to accept  or reject my decision before  28 March  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4575835