K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Miss J took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 1991. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Js complaint because:
Theres not enough evidence for me to conclude that Nationwide didnt make Miss J 
aware that she had a choice about  buying  the MPPI, or that she didnt choose to take it. 
This is understandable given how long ago the sale was. I dont think I can reasonably  
uphold the complaint  based on Miss Js recollection of events that took place over 25 
years ago. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the MPPI  to Miss J so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But looking at her circumstances it appears that the policy  was right for her 
anyway  as she had little in the way of sick pay or savings to use if she couldnt  work  
due to sickness, accident or redundancy. 
Its possible that Nationwide couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think Miss J would still have bought it. 
Its possible that Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Miss J doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on undisclosed  high levels of commission  and profit share dont 
apply  because  the mortgage  ended in 2001.  So no refund of commission  or profit  
share is necessary.
Ive taken into account Miss Js comments,  including what shes  said about the PPI being 
cancelled by Nationwide and the proceeds being  paid to Nationwide. But these  points dont 
change my conclusion.  The policy shes provided  evidence of (where a payment was made  
on cancellation)  appears  to be an endowment  policy  not PPI. PPI wouldnt pay out any 
money on cancellation. 
Im sorry  to hear that Miss J was made redundant on more than one occasion and struggled  
financially for a number of years. There are records  that show  that in 1997 Miss J enquired 
Ref: DRN44360392about making a claim following redundancy. A claim form was sent to her. But she found a 
new job before the excess period of 90 days had expired  which meant  she wasnt  due any 
payment from the insurer. If she wanted to make enquiries about making any backdated 
claims for other occasions she was made redundant,  she would need to contact the insurer  
directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436039