K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by Billing Finance Ltd (BFL) wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants  the outstanding 
payments on the account to be waived.
background
Mrs C is represented in this complaint by her son. For ease of reading Ill mostly refer to him. 
Mr C tells us his mother acquired the vehicle in May 2018. In July 2018 he says various 
faults with the car were diagnosed and that the vehicle was repaired on a couple of 
occasions by a company Ill refer to as E. He states that E had informed him the vehicle 
had been involved  in an accident  prior to supply to Mrs C. And that it didnt think the vehicle 
had been fit for purpose when supplied. He says hes provided a report  to this effect from E. 
Mr C says that even after the repairs there were till faults with the vehicle. And that it was still 
losing power, the front end was twisted and wheel bolts were broken.
BFL told us that after Mr C had complained, on behalf of his mother, it had arranged for an 
inspection of the vehicle to be carried out by a company  Ill refer to as A. It said this report  
had identified various faults with the vehicle including with the offside air vent; parking brake 
light; pedestrian system;  and misalignment of the offside front headlamp.  As a result of these  
findings it said that it had agreed  for Mr C to arrange for repairs to be carried out by a garage 
of his choice.  This was necessary as the original  dealer had ceased trading.  And on 11 
September 2018 it said the vehicle was taken to E for repairs.  It said that on 17 September  
Mr C had confirmed the repairs  were complete. Shortly afterwards  BFL said Mr C had raised 
further issues and this led to the pedestrian sensors  being replaced. On 3 December it 
stated that Mr C had advised  that the vehicle had again broken down. And that E had 
advised him that the vehicle had - before supply - been involved in a head  on collision which  
had twisted the bumper. BFL said it suggested  to Mr C that he should obtain an independent 
report to support these  claims. But that it had never  received any such  report. It said that in 
February 2019 it received a Voluntary  Termination  (VT) form and the vehicle was 
subsequently sold. BFL said a shortfall  of £3440.02 resulted. And this hadnt  been paid.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that the initial  
faults identified  with the vehicle had been  put right. And there was insufficient  evidence of 
the further faults - including accident  damage - to which Mr C had referred. As the 
agreement had now been voluntarily terminated it wouldnt be possible for any further 
inspection to be carried out on the vehicle.  And without information  to show  the vehicle 
wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale he wouldnt be asking BFL to anything  else.
Mrs C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs C experienced problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately with older,  high 
mileage vehicle things  are more likely to go wrong.
Ref: DRN43023442Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BFL supplied  the vehicle so its responsible  for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it 
into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA). In 
summary, this states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
I should explain that whilst Ive been looking at this complaint its become apparent  that 
whilst the finance  agreement is in Mrs Cs name  the vehicle seems to have  been  almost 
exclusively used by her son. And Ive seen  reference to her believing  she was only a 
guarantor of the loan. This may not ultimately affect her financial liability but the loan was 
taken out in her sole name.
Here the vehicle was around 10 years old and had covered about 106,000 miles at the time 
of supply to Mrs C. Its not reasonable to expect  a vehicle of this age and mileage to perform  
to the same  standard as a new vehicle.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In his written view our investigator provided a detailed chronology  of events which  Ill not 
repeat here as the parties  have seen it. And Ive been provided with documentation  which  
includes inspections reports from A and E about  the condition  of the vehicle. Ive also seen a 
report of the auction report  after the vehicle had been returned when the agreement was 
subject of a VT application.
Its not in dispute  that the vehicle was supplied with a number of faults.  And that it probably 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. But repairs were carried  out and I note that by 
the time the vehicle was inspected at the auction  in February 2019 the odometer reading 
was 115,000.  This suggests the vehicle  had covered around 9,000  miles since  supply. This 
is at least average use for the period. It had, in that respect, performed to reasonable 
expectations.
As inspection was carried out on 25 July and revealed various  faults with the vehicle 
including pedestrian sensor  issues,  parking  brake light fault and front headlamp  
misalignment Most of these faults were repaired by E as confirmed  by an invoice dated 8 
August 2018.  A later invoice dated 30 November, also from E, shows the pedestrian sensors 
had been replaced.
A few days  after this Mr C complained that the vehicle  had again  broken down. And I can 
see that he told BFL that the coolant  pipe had exploded and caused damage to the power 
steering. During  several contacts that followed I can see BFL asked  Mr C to provide an 
inspection report from a source other than E. It said that E had been involved with the 
repairs and so wasnt thought to be sufficiently  independent. I cant  see that any further  
report was provided.
In January 2019, discussions took place about  the VT of the agreement  and Mrs C became 
involved with these.  And on 29 January, BFL advised her that it could arrange for another 
inspection if she wished.  Mrs C appears  to have indicated that shed been told the vehicle 
was a write off. In February 2019  the agreement was voluntarily terminated. And it was later 
disposed of at auction.
Ref: DRN43023443E reported that the vehicle was accident  damaged and had intermittent engine issues.  And it 
expressed the view that the vehicle was unreliable and not as described  by the seller. How it 
reached this latter conclusion is unclear given theres nothing  to show that it had any 
information about what the seller  had represented. I also note that it commented that repairs 
to the pedestrian sensors hadnt  cleared  the fault and that the headlamp  (it had repaired) 
had broken again very quickly. So Im going  to treat what E has said with caution and not to 
place undue reliance  on it.
Theres insufficient information to show that the alleged accident damage identified  by E 
resulted in the vehicle not conforming to contract at the time of supply. And Im satisfied that 
BFL arranged for relevant repairs - which had been identified in the report by A - to be 
carried out. BFL later asked for an independent report  to be supplied to confirm  other  issues 
raised by Mr C. And when  this wasnt done  it offered to make arrangements for such a report  
to be prepared. Instead the agreement  was voluntarily terminated and the vehicle sold.
I find that every opportunity was given to both Mr C and Mrs C to have a further inspection  
carried out on this vehicle prior to the VT taking  place. As this wasnt done Im not satisfied 
that theres sufficient information to show  that - after the repairs which  had been identified  
by A had been  carried out  - the vehicle didnt conform to contract. It seems highly unlikely 
that it couldve covered  9,000 miles if some of the issues reported after repairs - including  
the broken coolant pipe - had been present at the point of supply.
In summary,  I find the vehicle was supplied with faults which  were repaired.  Theres 
insufficient information to show that any faults  which developed later were  due to issues  
present at the point of supply. Or that they meant  the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality. 
As Mrs C agreed to VT the agreement whilst there  was still an ongoing dispute about  vehicle  
quality theres no way of conducting any further inspection to resolve  those outstanding 
matters. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask BFL to waive the outstanding  balance 
on the agreement.
I know Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision but Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4302344