K820x#14complaint
Mr W has two let properties in mortgage  to Nationwide  Building Society. He complains that 
when he let the first property Nationwide didnt charge additional  interest on account of the 
letting, but when he let the second  property it did. He doesnt know why, as it was exactly the 
same scenario.
To resolve  his complaint  hed like Nationwide to return the additional interest charges.
background
Mr W and his wife took a residential mortgage  to buy a property, pursuant to a mortgage 
offer from Nationwide dated 26 August  2004. Ill call these property 1 and mortgage  1. Mr 
and Mrs W applied for and were granted permission to let property 1 from 1 August 2008. 
On 22 March 2011 Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs W:
On 1 September 2010 we altered our mortgage  tariff of charges and introduced  an 
additional interest rate of 1.5% (variable) that will be charged to customers letting out their 
property.
A key consideration before implementing this additional interest rate was to ensure we treat 
our customers fairly. Our existing fixed and tracker rate customers letting out their properties 
have told us that they believe  these  changes disproportionately impact them. This is 
because if an existing  customer  wishes to end their deal with us and change their mortgage 
provider, rather than paying the additional interest rate, they would be subject to Early 
Repayment Charges  (ERCs).
.. We have listened  to your feedback and as a result, we have decided not to implement 
the additional interest rate for customers letting prior to 1 September 2010 until they are 
outside of their early  repayment charging period across all their mortgage accounts.
Your mortgage details  show that you let out your property and have a mortgage product that 
is currently subject to Early Repayment  Charges (ERCs). I confirm  that you will not be 
charged the additional letting interest  rate until you are outside  of the ERC period across all 
of your mortgage accounts. According  to our records  this will be on 31 October 2011.
As you currently have consent  to let your property we will contact you closer to the end of 
your letting consent period asking you to confirm  your letting status and setting  out the next 
steps.
In January 2015 Mr W took a residential  mortgage  in his sole name, with a fixed  rate interest 
product, to buy a second property, pursuant to a mortgage offer from Nationwide  dated 
24 December 2014. Ill call these  property 2 and mortgage 2.
On 23 February 2017 Mr W applied to Nationwide for permission to let property 2. The 
application form which he signed said:
By completing this letting application  form, you confirm that Nationwide Building  Society  can 
apply the 1% (variable) additional letting interest rate to your mortgage  if we consent to your 
letting arrangement.
Ref: DRN42990882The additional letting  interest rate will be payable  in addition to your current product interest 
rate and will increase  the total rate payable for the period that we agree to your letting. 
Notification of your new monthly payment  will be sent approximately 2 weeks before it is 
due.
For new letting requests the additional letting interest rate will be charged  to all accounts  
when you have been letting your property  for 6 months or more.
Nationwide granted permission to let on 2 March 2017. Its letter of that date said:
Once youve been letting for six months,  well add an extra 1% (variable) interest  rate to 
your mortgage account(s) and let you know  your new payments.
On 11 September  2017 Nationwide wrote to Mr W:
Were getting in touch because our records show youve been letting your property for six 
months or more. This means well be adding  the extra 1.0%  (variable) interest rate to your 
account(s) from 1 October 2017.
In 2018 Mr W complained to Nationwide about  the additional interest charged on mortgage  
2. He said this conflicted  with Nationwides  letter  of 22 March  2011 about mortgage 1. No 
additional interest had been  applied to mortgage  1 until it ceased to be subject to an early  
repayment charge  (ERC).
In reply Nationwide said mortgage 2 had been  taken out in January  2015 for a residential  
purchase with a 4-year fixed rate product. Mr W had applied for consent  to let this property 
too and Nationwide had approved this on 2 March  2017. Its letter confirmed that once  Mr W 
had been letting for six months, Nationwide would  add an extra  1% interest  rate to the 
mortgage. A further  letter was sent on 11 September  2017  confirming  this rate would be 
applied from 1 October 2017.
Nationwide said its letting  policy had changed between 2011  and 2017 when Mr Ws 
respective properties  were let, and its policy and processes  had been  correctly followed.
Mr W thought  this was unfair  and brought his complaint to our service. He said Nationwide 
hadnt done this on mortgage  1 until the ERC had ended - and he was still subject to an ERC 
on mortgage 2 until January 2019.
Mr W said he wasnt informed of a change in policy between the first product purchase and 
the second product purchase. If as advised, Nationwide notified him after the second  product 
was taken out, this was exactly the issue the letter  dated 22 March 2011 had tackled. At this 
point the customer  had to either accept additional interest  or face ERCs.  Nationwide  had 
tackled this issue in 2011, but it hadnt  been  addressed later down  the track.
Our investigator said the situation on mortgage  2 was different.  On mortgage 1, when Mr W 
took out the interest rate product with the ERC,  Nationwide  didnt apply the additional letting  
interest rate at first. And Nationwide allowed Mr W to take a new product with an ERC when 
it already knew he was letting his property.  It was unlikely to be fair for it to introduce  a new 
charge for borrowers in these circumstances when they werent  free to move  their mortgage 
without ERCs.
Ref: DRN42990883On mortgage  2, Mr W wasnt already  letting  the property when he took the fixed rate product. 
When he applied for permission to let property  2, the application form set out clearly and 
prominently that a 1% additional  letting  interest rate would apply. Mr W signed  to accept that. 
Nationwide set out fairly that it would apply  the additional letting interest  rate before it agreed 
to let the property.  Mr W had the choice to not let his property, remortgage and incur the 
ERC or pay the additional  interest rate. He chose to go ahead and pay the additional interest 
rate.
The investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ws complaint be upheld. She didnt consider that 
Nationwide had acted  unfairly. The circumstances on mortgage 1 and mortgage  2 were quite 
different and it was reasonable  for Nationwide to take the approach  it did. In any case,  there 
wasnt any obligation on Nationwide to tell existing borrowers who took out a new mortgage 
that its policies  or procedures had changed since their previous mortgage was taken out.
The investigator was satisfied that Nationwide  had set out clearly  and fairly  what it would do 
on mortgage 2 - and it was Mr Ws choice to go ahead  on that basis.
Mr W asked for his case to be referred to an ombudsman. He said the letter  hed sent to us 
outlined why Nationwide itself considered its approach to be unfair.  A choice  between  
additional fees (ERC) and additional fees (extra  interest)  was no choice  at all in real terms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with what  the 
investigator said.
Nationwide only considered its approach to be unfair when it imposed extra  interest on 
borrowers who already  had fixed rate products subject to ERCs and were already letting 
their properties with no additional  interest charge. It was those borrowers who had no 
choice.
Mortgage 2 doesnt fall into that category. Mr W knew, when he applied for permission to let 
property 2, that this would involve payment of extra interest after six months. He agreed  to 
that. Lettings increase lender risk and theres  nothing unusual about  permission to let 
involving additional interest. Thats why buy-to-let mortgages are more expensive.  It wouldnt 
be fair to allow borrowers to circumvent this simply by taking residential mortgages with 
interest rate products  then applying for permission  to let.
Mr W hasnt persuaded me that Nationwide has acted unfairly towards  him and Im not 
minded to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4299088