K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a secured loan. She applied 
for the loan and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  one thirtieth of Mrs Bs loan repayment  for 
each day she was unable  to work.  This would be for up to 12 months per claim for 
unemployment, and up to 60 months per claim for accident or sickness. At the time, it cost 
£22.43 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs B was employed as a cook. Mrs B has also said she did some  part time 
casual work  in addition to her main job, but she has confirmed to BOS  that this was for less 
than 16 hours per week. She has told us she was entitled to 6 months sick pay, death  in 
service benefit, and that she had a small amount of savings. Mrs B has said she was in good  
health at the time of the sale. In her initial submissions to us she did refer to a childhood 
illness she had, but given that this illness was over 40 years  before the sale I cant see that it 
is relevant here.
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2001 when the 
borrowing was repaid.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Bs representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs B and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN49936282The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a secured loan is 
generally a long- term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be most 
needed; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN49936283The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mrs B sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN49936284damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and BOS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the loan application that Mrs B completed at the time. This included  a 
separate section  relating to PPI which asked Mrs B to sign a box  separately  to her 
signature for the loan itself  to say either yes or no to taking out the PPI. There was 
nothing on this application to suggest  that taking the PPI would affect the loan application  in 
any way. And Mrs B had signed to say she did want the cover.  
Taking all of this into account,  I think its more  likely  that Mrs B knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did BOS provide  advice?
Im satisfied that BOS  provided advice during this sale.
This means  BOS had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mrs B. It seems Mrs B cant remember clearly what  happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mrs Bs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  she would  have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest BOS considered whether Mrs B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs B given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Bs ability to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the employment  benefits and 
savings she says she would have been  entitled  to.
Ref: DRN49936285-Although Mrs B says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs B. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Bs employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for unemployment and 60 months for each claim for disability, it still provided useful 
cover given  Mrs Bs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mrs B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BOS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she were  
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs B would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
The loan agreement  that Mrs B signed  did set out the monthly cost of the policy, but by the 
time she signed that document she had already agreed to the PPI. So the evidence from the 
time of sale doesnt  tell us whether BOS gave sufficient information  about the actual  monthly 
benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mrs B agreed to take out 
the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS  gave Mrs B all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN49936286-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs B, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs B knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BOS told her the exact premium at the point Mrs B applied 
Ref: DRN49936287for the policy. Having  said that, as Ive explained above, the cost of the policy  was set out on 
the loan agreement that Mrs B signed, and she paid for the policy for nearly  two years,  so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
she might  have raised that with BOS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOS  made  clear  exactly what Mrs B would  get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Bs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her loan 
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs B knew  about, 
ought to have known about,  or sought advice, treatment or counselling for before the 
start date of the policy and which reoccurred within 24 months of the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs B be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months for unemployment and 60 months 
for accident and sickness, rather than the remaining term of the loan.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs B was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs B wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs B didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. Mrs B has said she had a 
second job at the time,  but this was for less than 16 hours per week  and so would not have 
affected her ability  to make a claim for unemployment. So, I still think  she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs B 
Ref: DRN49936288from taking out the policy,  Mrs B, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view she might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Bs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
BOS may not have  told Mrs B that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12 month 
period for unemployment and a 60 month period for accident or sickness.  This may have 
differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  but 60 months was a longer  
period than Mrs B would have received full sick pay for, and her statutory redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than the 12 months cover she would have got if shed 
been made redundant.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs B would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to either  12 or 60 monthly loan payments would have been  of benefit to her and would 
help her manage the consequences should Mrs B be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
her outgoings at a difficult and uncertain  time ensure her home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Bs sick pay, savings, or redundancy money for other 
use.
Mrs B has also noted that at the time she took the policy out she was already thinking  about 
retirement, and that the policy would no longer have provided useful cover once she had 
retired. But Mrs B was 49 at the time of the sale, and didnt  retire  until 11 years later, so I 
dont think this would have affected her decision to take it out as she would still have been 
eligible for cover for a significant  period of time and, in any case, the disability portion of the 
policy would still have  covered her even after retirement.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she were made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN49936289presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mrs B compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs B thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mrs B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs B and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2021.
Ref: DRN499362810Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4993628