K821x#15complaint
Mr B took out a HomeCare policy with British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) on 9 September  
2018. He complains about the service hes received from it following a problem with his hot 
water supply.
background
On 30th December  2018, Mr B suffered  a rapid  loss of hot water pressure which left him 
without hot water. He contacted BG who sent an engineer who told him that he needed a 
new cylinder.  However he told Mr B that this wouldnt be covered  under his HomeCare 
policy because the problem was caused by limescale. The relevant section of Mr Bs policy 
says it doesnt  cover:
Damage caused  by limescale,  sludge  or other  debris - if we've told you before that
you need to carry  out repairs,  improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a
similar process, but you haven't done  so.
Mr B maintains that hed never been  advised that his system was dirty and there was 
nothing to this effect  mentioned in the paperwork hed been given following BGs initial  
inspection visit on 12 September 2018. There was no mention of limescale, sludge or other 
debris. He says he wasnt told that he needed to carry out repairs,  improvements or a 
powerflush, or a similar process.  There were  no recommendations made  following the visit. 
So after having been  told by BG on a number of occasions that he wasnt covered because 
of the presence  of limescale, BG eventually accepted that the exclusion didnt apply in his 
case. It accepted  that there  was no evidence that hed been advised that unless he had his 
limescale dealt with, no further repairs  could  be undertaken under his policy.  
Mr B says that BG then ordered a custom made  cylinder for him which  caused  a weeks  
delay in his getting his hot water restored.  When this cylinder was delivered on 17 January,  
when Mr B had taken a day off work,  it was the wrong size cylinder for his property. He says 
it was twice the height of the room  in which it was to be housed. A replacement  cylinder  of 
the correct size, which had been in stock all along,  was due to be delivered  on 21 January.  
Mr B says he lost earnings  to stay at home for the engineers visit, only to learn at around 
midday that the engineer  had cancelled his visit without informing anyone.
Another engineer  came  on 25 January  and the new cylinder was installed, but Mr B says it 
wasnt installed correctly. His water continued to run cold,  and then the cylinder  leaked.  This 
required a visit from another engineer who fixed the leak.  Mr Bs hot water  supply was then 
restored.
BG agreed  that Mr B had suffered inconvenience whilst waiting for repairs  to be approved,  
and parts to be delivered and in BG not keeping scheduled appointments. In recognition of 
this, on 28 January 2019, it offered  to pay him compensation of £250. This sum was arrived 
at as follows:
£120.00 for the inconvenience of having  to take time off work and appointments 
wasted
£100.00 for the inconvenience of having  no proper hot water for 26 days and having 
to go to work to shower
Ref: DRN46408062£30.00 for delays  in having  to wait for a new cylinder when the wrong  one was 
ordered.
On 30 January another problem occurred.  A thermostat fault resulted in scalding hot water  
being delivered. An engineer, independent  of BG, attributed this to the new cylinder having 
been fitted with the thermostat from the old cylinder. A further leak then developed. Mr B 
says that BG failed  to attend an appointment on 4 February to deal with these issues without 
any cancellation message, and he didnt  get any replies to his emails  to BG. He says he lost 
another days earnings waiting in for a BG engineer.  He says he was without hot water for a 
total of 26 days  and had to shower at work or with friends or family.
Having lost faith in BGs  ability to attend  appointments  and undertake  work correctly,  Mr B 
said hed be getting  another  engineer to sort out the problem with the thermostat and a small 
leak. 
 
Mr B maintains that his hot water problem shouldve been resolved well within  a week had 
there not been  incorrect challenges to his right to claim the repair under his policy,  the wrong 
cylinder ordered, a prolonged  wait for unnecessary manufacture of the custom cylinder,  two 
missed appointments,  and an incorrect installation. He says hes been caused loss 
amounting to £1,928.62, calculated as follows:
Excessive time without hot water: £840.00 (inconvenience, embarrassment of 
attending work to shower, difficulty in maintaining  hygiene and interruptions to daily 
life)
Lost earnings (3 days):  £838.62
Estimated cost of completion of outstanding  work by a third party:  £250.00
BG has confirmed that its engineer failed to record advice  provided to Mr B about the need 
to rectify limescale problems before any further  repairs could be undertaken under his policy.  
BG therefore  agreed to replace the hot water cylinder free of charge. It also acknowledged 
that Mr B had experienced delays in the restoration  of his hot water supply. In response to 
his request for compensation, it said that for it to consider  his claim for loss of earnings, Mr B 
would need to provide some factual proof of this from his employer. Mr B responded to this 
by saying that the work hed lost was overtime work,  and he was unsure how this could be 
evidenced. BG also said that it couldnt refund the cost of work undertaken by a third party  
unless this was supported  by an invoice for work  actually carried  out. BG offered to send an 
engineer to look at the thermostat problem, and said it would replace the thermostat but only 
if it was faulty.  
Mr B was dissatisfied with BGs response to his complaint, and brought it to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that BG had treated Mr B unfairly. It had apologised and had offered 
him compensation of £250. Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  view on compensation 
and so his complaints was referred  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in this case. I received responses  to that 
decision from both Mr B and BG. Mr B didnt consider that my provisional decision 
sufficiently reflected his situation. BG said it thought its original offer was sufficient.
Ref: DRN46408063Having considered these responses, neither gives me sufficient reason to change my 
decision. Im therefore going to maintain my provisional decision which was to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
I think there were a number of faults on BGs part which led to a significant delay in restoring 
Mr Bs hot water  supply.  BG has accepted that there was some fault on its part and has 
offered Mr B compensation of £250,  although he says he hasnt received this. 
I think that to be without a hot water supply for 26 days, when the delay was attributable  to 
faults on BGs part, deserves rather more by way of compensation. Mr B wouldve suffered 
considerable inconvenience  in having to go to work  or the homes of others in order to 
shower. I think that £150 would be appropriate  compensation for such  inconvenience.
Mr B also had to take quite a bit if time off work for BG appointments. Whilst its not 
unreasonable that a consumer should have  to take some time off work or experience some 
inconvenience when  waiting in for contractors to attend their property, where a contractor 
has missed a number of appointments  in Mr Bs case  appointments  on 21 January  and 4 
February -  I think that additional compensation is reasonable.  Mr B has said he missed out 
on overtime, but he hasnt  provided  any evidence that might support a specific  sum by way 
of lost earnings. However I think that £250 would be fair compensation for the two days Mr B 
had to take off work unnecessarily. 
So Im therefore going  to require BG to pay Mr B compensation of £400.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I require  British Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr B 
compensation of £400, less any sum its already  paid him.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4640806