K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about a loan he took out with Instant Cash  Loans Limited, trading as Payday 
Express, (ICL).  He said that ICL shouldnt have  given  him the loan as it was unaffordable.  
background
Mr T took out a loan for £1,250 with ICL on 13 May 2016. The loan was repayable by twelve 
monthly instalments  of £196.77. Mr T hasnt  repaid  the loan. He said that the loan had been 
lent irresponsibly.
ICL said that it had made a credit check and asked  Mr T for details of his income and regular 
expenditure. ICL said that the loan repayments  appeared to be affordable based on the 
information Mr T had declared to it. It said that there didnt appear to be any particular  issues 
with other  lenders that concerned it. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He noted  that ICL 
had carried out a credit check  which he hadnt  seen and that it had asked Mr T for his 
income and regular expenditure. He said that ICLs checks were proportionate, and that 
based on Mr Ts declared disposable income, the loan was reasonably lent.
Mr T disagreed. He responded to say that his income hadnt been checked  at any point.  He 
noted that the adjudicator  had said in his assessment that ICL had checked this. Mr T also 
said that he hadnt been asked by ICL to send  it any bank statements. If ICL had seen these, 
it would  have seen  that there were a lot of other payday loans and other loans. It would have 
also seen that he was gambling  a lot at this time.  His credit report would also have shown he 
had a significant amount of lenders and debt at the time. 
Mr T also noted that the adjudicator had said that he had £725 disposable income at this 
time. He said that his statements  confirmed that this was untrue. He was financially 
struggling at this point  and was borrowing to pay off other debts that were spiralling out of 
control.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ICL is required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr T could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr T was borrowing,  and his lending history, but there  was no 
set list of checks ICL had to do.
Ive thought about whether ICLs  checks were proportionate for this loan. ICL told us that 
before lending to Mr T, it had asked about  his income and expenditure. And it had carried 
out a credit check before the loan.  I havent seen ICLs credit check.
I note that Mr T said that he had other  credit  accounts and Ive seen these on his own credit  
report. Mr T had declared monthly credit commitments of £400 to ICL but I can see from 
Mr Ts credit report that his credit  commitments were somewhat higher  than this. But I think 
its also important to note that the information  a consumer might see, when they request a 
copy of their credit file, might  be very different to that seen by a lender. ICL hasnt been able 
Ref: DRN48610872to provide us with any information about its credit check. But Im aware  that when a lender 
carries out a credit search,  the information  it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of 
detail that a consumers credit  report will and it isnt necessarily up to date.  A lender might 
only see a small portion of a borrowers credit  file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday  and short term lenders report  to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, Mr T may have taken other payday or short term loans prior to 
the loan which may not have been identified by ICLs credit  check.  So, this may explain any 
differences between  the information provided by ICLs credit check  and Mr Ts actual 
situation.
 
I note that Mr T had to repay a monthly amount of £196.77 for twelve months to repay the 
loan. But even though the amounts  that Mr T needed to repay each month  were  smaller than 
if hed taken a normal payday loan, he was committing to making  those repayments over a 
far longer period.  So I think it would have  been  proportionate here for ICL to gather 
information about Mr Ts income  and regular outgoings, which I can see that it did. 
ICLs records show that Mr T declared an income of £2,200 to ICL and his declared regular 
expenditure totalled £1,475 including credit  commitments of £400.  The expenditure 
information requested  by ICL included housing, utilities, food, other credit commitments and 
other expenditure. ICL also took into account statistical  expenditure data,  which increased 
Mr Ts outgoings  to £1,510.79. So it calculated  that Mr T had a disposable income of 
£689.21. 
I dont think at that stage  of its relationship  with Mr T that ICL had any reason to doubt the 
information hed provided to it. I think it was reasonable for ICL to rely on the information
Mr T provided at this stage about  his financial situation and to add an additional amount 
based on statistical data.  The information Mr T provided together  with the additional 
outgoings amount  suggested that he was able to afford to repay  the loan sustainably. And 
there was little to suggest to ICL at this stage that Mr T wasnt using the loan in the way it 
was intended   as a short term solution to a temporary cash flow problem. 
I appreciate that Mr T now says that he wasnt asked to provide his bank statements to ICL 
and that his income hadnt been checked.  But this would have been disproportionate  here.  
At this stage of the lending I wouldnt have expected ICL to ask for Mr Ts bank statements 
or his payslips to independently verify the financial information that he gave. I think  ICL was 
entitled to rely on what Mr T had said about his income and expenditure.
I also note that Mr T has referred to his other credit commitments. But, the information  he
provided to ICL took into account his credit  commitments. His declared financial information 
suggested he could  comfortably repay  the loan and didnt suggest he was experiencing 
difficulty. 
I also note that Mr T said that he had a gambling problem. But that wasnt  something  he told 
ICL about or something that ICL would have discovered from what I consider to be 
proportionate checks.  
I appreciate that Mr T will be disappointed with my decision. But, I dont think  that ICL treated 
Mr T unfairly  in giving him the loan.  And based on the information  ICL had about Mr T, it 
appeared that he could afford  the repayments. So, I dont think ICL was wrong to give Mr T 
this loan.
Ref: DRN48610873I understand that Mr T hasnt repaid the loan.  If he currently  has financial issues, I would 
remind ICL of its responsibility to treat him in a positive and sympathetic manner about the 
amounts he should  repay.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4861087