K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited  withheld a payment of £1,650 which  a third party 
had paid to him on a card reading machine.
background
Mr A is a sole trader. He used to process debit  and credit card payments using a machine 
provided to him by WorldPay.  In June 2016 he received a payment of £1,650,  which 
WorldPay decided to investigate. The result of the investigation was that WorldPay  was not 
satisfied that this was a legitimate transaction, and it permanently  withheld the money from 
him. He complained.  WorldPay  says it sent him a final response letter in December 2016, 
but Mr A says he did not receive it.
Mr A complained to our Service in 2018.  He mainly complains about the withheld payment, 
but he also complains  that WorldPay failed to send him a final response letter and had kept 
him waiting  for one for many months,  thereby preventing him from complaining to us. He 
also says that WorldPays  staff were rude to him on the phone.
WorldPay objected to our Service considering  this complaint, because  Mr A had brought  it to 
us more than six months after its 2016 final response letter.  But our adjudicator decided that 
she could consider it, because he had complained within  six months of the 2018 final 
response.
The adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.  She said that WorldPay  had acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions, and so it had done  nothing wrong. It had been 
entitled to withhold  the money from Mr A.
Mr A did not accept that decision. He maintained that the transaction was innocent. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why, but 
before I do that I will explain why I have jurisdiction  to consider this complaint.
Under rules  made by the Financial Conduct Authority, our Service can only consider a 
complaint if it is brought to us within  six months  of the date when the respondent business 
sent the complainant its final response letter  except  if the complaint is late as a result of 
exceptional circumstances.  If the business  fails to send a final response letter within  eight 
months of receiving the complaint,  then we can consider the complaint at any time after that, 
without waiting any longer for a final response.
When a business  sends two letters which appear  to be final responses,  then we would 
generally treat the first one as being the only one which counts.  The sending of a second 
final response later on doesnt usually re-start the clock for the purposes of the six month 
deadline. This case is no exception, so the time limit expired in 2017.
However, the 2016 final response letter was sent to the wrong address, so Mr A didnt 
receive it. I think  that amounts to exceptional circumstances which caused the delay  in 
Ref: DRN41187502bringing this complaint, and so for that reason I think that our Service  does have power  to 
consider this complaint.
I have considered whether that error is worth awarding compensation for. But since  Mr A 
didnt need to wait any longer for a final response after the eight week deadline ran out in 
early 2017   he could have come  to us then  I dont think  it is.
WorldPays terms and conditions say that it can permanently withhold a payment from its 
customer if it reasonably believes that the customer has breached  his obligations  under  its 
merchant services agreement. Following  its investigation,  WorldPay believed that to be the 
case here. It gave Mr A an opportunity to explain the transaction  and to provide evidence to 
support his case, but it was not satisfied with his response. It provided its findings  to us in 
confidence and so I am not at liberty  to share them,  but I can see why it reached  the 
conclusion it did, and I cannot fault its reasoning. So I am unable  to require it to do anything.
Because recordings of the phone calls are no longer available,  I cant  fairly determine 
whether anyone was rude to Mr A on the phone.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.  But if we dont hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4118750