K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs W were sold the PPI when they applied for a mortgage.  The mortgage was in 
joint names but the policy covered Mr W only against being  unable to work  due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
NatWest has shown  us a copy of the mortgage  application form. I can see there is a section 
on PPI. There are two boxes that couldve been ticked, one to apply for the PPI and one to 
decline it. The one to accept PPI has been ticked.  And details of the cover  selected have 
been entered. Details of the policy also appear  on the mortgage offer, but there is nothing in 
the offer to suggest the PPI was a condition of the offer.
I also note the PPI remained in force for many years, and over the years  the level of cover  
was amended and increased on more than one occasion. Possibly when further  advances  
were taken on the mortgage.  If Mr and Mrs W hadnt  wanted the PPI Id have expected them 
to have questioned it at an early  stage but Ive not seen any evidence they did so.
Taking everything into account  I think NatWest made it clear  that Mr and Mrs W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this after so many years.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
After so many years  I cant be sure exactly what was information was given to Mr and Mrs W 
during the meeting where  the PPI was sold to them. Its possible  the information  NatWest 
gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. 
But they chose  to take out the PPI and it looks like they chose to cover Mr W as the main  
wage-earner - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover for him. Based on what Ive seen 
of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So it wouldve been useful for him if something went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I can see the monthly cost of the policy  
Ref: DRN41807132appeared on the mortgage offer. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr and Mrs W off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said, including what  they told us about    
Mr Ws sick pay. Mr W has said his employer wouldve paid him full pay for up to six months,  
followed by half pay for a further  six months  if he became too unwell to work. But the PPI 
policy would pay a monthly benefit  on top of any sick pay and for up to 12 months. So I still 
think Mr W wouldve  found the policy useful  if he became unwell or had an accident,  
particularly if he was off work for a prolonged period.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4180713