K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Europ Assistance S.A (Europ) have declined his excess protection  
insurance claim.
background
In November 2017, a car Mr H hired  abroad  was damaged. Mr H had to pay around €350 to 
cover the excess he says he paid to the car hire company, after the damages had been 
fixed.
The repairs  werent  carried  out until June 2018  and Mr H didnt reimburse the hire company 
until he went abroad again in October 2018.
Mr H has a policy with Europ which covers  excess reimbursement  of up to £6,000  so he 
put in a claim for this in November  2018.  But Europ declined this claim, as Mr H didnt have 
all the paperwork they needed. Specifically, the underwriters asked for a copy  of the hire 
agreement. As Mr H didnt  have  this, both he and Europ approached the hire company  but 
the hire company refused  to supply this information unless an admin  fee of £250  was paid.
Mr H thought that Europ  already had enough  information to pay his claim and raised a 
complaint with them. Dissatisfied with their response, he brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator thought that Europ  had treated Mr H fairly in declining the claim  she 
thought the evidence hed sent them didnt give all the information  they needed. And she 
thought theyd done enough to try and get this information from Mr H and directly  from the 
hire company.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings  so the complaint has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint   and I wont be asking Europ to do anything further.
Its clear to me that Mr H feels  strongly  about  his complaint  so I think  its likely  hell be 
disappointed by my decision. But Ive explained  why I think this is a fair answer below.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Hs policy   and can see the following 
information is needed when putting in a claim:
-a copy of the hire agreement
-a copy of the hire company accident  damage report and a photographic picture  of the 
damage caused
-invoices, receipts and other documents confirming  the amount the insured has paid 
in respect of the damage to the hired vehicle theyre seeking reimbursement for
-a final repair invoice  from the repairing garage  which details the breakdown of parts 
and labour
-any other documentation requested by Europ in order to settle  the claim
Ref: DRN45573822I think this is set out clearly in the policy documents.
With an insurance claim, the responsibility is on the insured person to show  the loss that 
theyre claiming for  in Mr Hs case,  the excess he paid when the hire car was fixed. But I 
dont think Mr H has been able to evidence this.
Mr H sent Europ information which included an invoice showing he hired a car with the hire 
company, receipts  adding  up to around  €350  (the excess  amount hes claiming on his 
policy), an image of the damage to the hire car and an invoice showing he paid for the car 
hire in cash.
But theres nothing  here that shows the agreement he had with the hire company  and no 
recorded details  of the excess he was expected  to pay. The cash receipt Mr H has provided  
is blurred and theres no relevant detail included in it. The invoices for the repairs  carried  out 
are also not to Mr H  and dont  show that hes made any payments. I appreciate  thats 
because the hire company paid these  which Mr H says he reimbursed at later date. 
But this still doesnt  give Europ the information  theyve asked for to assess his claim.
So, I dont think they had all Europ needed  to consider the claim. And I think they were 
acting reasonably by still asking  Mr H for remaining evidence.
I can also see that Europs underwriters were contacted and agreed that they at least 
needed a copy  of the hire agreement. But Mr H wasnt  able to produce this, as he says he 
wasnt given one. I can also see that Europ contacted the hire company several times to get 
this information   but the hire company werent  prepared to help further unless a fee of £250  
was paid. Europ  also kept in contact  with Mr H, asking  him if hed had any success  in getting 
the missing information.
So overall, I think Europ  thought carefully about what they needed to consider the claim,  
tried hard to get that information and took all the reasonable steps  Id expect. From  the 
correspondence between  Europ and their underwriters, I think theyve taken into account the 
difficulty Mr H was having. As thats  the case, Im not going to ask Europ to do anything  
further.
Mr H has also said if Europ wont pay his claim, hed like to be refunded  all the premiums 
hes paid. But Mr H has been  protected by this insurance all the while  its been in force   so I 
dont think Europ needs to do that. And it wouldnt be fair to say they had to refund him, just 
because this current claim hasnt  been  successful. I also couldnt find any other reason why 
Europ should  cancel Mr Hs policy and refund him all his premiums.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint against  Europ Assistance S.A..
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4557382