K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr C says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2002 it was sold 
during a phone  call.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his card. Mr C says he wouldnt have  asked for the PPI to be added to his card.  I wasnt 
present when Mr C applied for the PPI so I dont know for certain what  was said.  But from 
what I know about how FICL sold this type of policy at the time I think  its more  likely FICL 
made it clear  that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. The PPI 
was also taken out several years after Mr C applied for the card itself so I think  this also 
shows he would have  known that he didnt have to have to policy.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr C has told us he was entitled  to generous sick pay when he took the PPI and had 
some savings, so he didnt need  the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mr Cs sick pay and allowed him to keep his savings in place to be used towards any other 
essential expenses  he may have had.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN41413852For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141385