K821x#15complaint
Mr Ts complaint against Cofunds Limited is about the problems hes had accessing his 
online accounts.
background
In June 2018, Mr T attempted to activate his two ISA accounts on Cofunds  new website. 
Unfortunately he was only able to access one of the accounts. 
Mr T contacted Cofunds on 12 June  2018.  He says he made  six calls but was unable to 
resolve things. He complains he was put in queues, Cofunds hung up on him, and he was 
promised emails that never arrived. 
A week later, Mr Ts financial  advisor  contacted Cofunds to ask that the accounts be held 
together, but not merged,  so Mr T could view them both under one log in. In August 2018,  
Cofunds told Mr T that he should  be able to log in and view both accounts,  but he was still 
unable to do so. 
In September  2018, Cofunds  apologised to Mr T for the inconvenience caused  and offered  
him £100 in compensation. They said Mr T should  be able to view his accounts by the end of 
the month.   
Unfortunately, the problem wasnt  resolved  and Mr T brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service. Our investigator looked  into what had happened  and thought  Cofunds 
should do more  to compensate Mr T. She also said Cofunds should contact Mr T directly to 
discuss merging the ISAs to resolve  the problems  he was having.
While the complaint was with our service, Cofunds  said they were still trying  to find a solution 
to the problems Mr T was having. They said theyd like to offer Mr T an additional £175 in 
compensation. Our investigator thought this was reasonable,  but Mr T disagreed.  He said 
Cofunds still hadnt resolved things and failed to contact  him when promised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cofunds accept  that the introduction of their new website has caused problems for Mr T in 
accessing his accounts. And they acknowledge they havent provided  Mr T with a 
satisfactory service in trying  to resolve things.  So the key point I need to look at is what  they 
should do to put things  right. 
Mr T has been  unable to access his account for some months.  So hes been  unable to 
monitor his investments in the way he wanted to. Over this period, Cofunds havent  
responded as quickly  as they should  have to Mr Ts requests and complaints. And theyve 
told him the problems  would  be resolved when they havent been. 
Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive looked  at everything hes said about the service  hes 
received from Cofunds. I appreciate that Cofunds actions have caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience to Mr T. 
Ref: DRN40244322But its not our role to punish businesses. Where something has gone wrong, we look at the 
impact its had and whether what the business  has done to put things  right is fair and 
reasonable. And overall, I think Cofunds latest offer to pay Mr T an additional £175 in 
compensation - bringing the total to £275 - is fair and reasonable. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mr T was hoping for, but I wont be asking Cofunds to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Cofunds Limiteds offer to 
pay Mr T a total of £275 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4024432