K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Trusted Cash Limited, trading as Trusted Quid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on 4 February 2019. A copy  is attached and it 
forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in it, so 
I wont reiterate that here.
I explained why I was planning  to uphold the complaint and asked both parties  for their 
comments. Mr O and Trusted Quid have both responded and accepted the provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted the provisional  decision,  I see no reason to depart from it. My final 
decision is therefore the same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Trusted Cash Limited must put things right by taking the steps set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42233792COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr O says Trusted Cash Limited, trading as Trusted Quid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr O had two loans with Trusted Quid. Both were instalment  loans with a term of six months.  Trusted 
Quid has provided  the following  information  about the loans:
Loan  1  for £300, started on 07 October 2016 and repaid  on 20 October 2016
Loan  2  for £500, started on 20 October 2016 and not yet repaid
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website  and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case. 
Im planning to uphold Mr Os complaint  and have explained why below.
Broadly speaking, I think the checks Trusted  Quid carried  out before lending were proportionate.  The 
contractual repayments were small  when compared to Mr Os income and appeared to be affordable 
for Mr O when taking account  of what he said about  his expected monthly  expenditure. As part of its 
affordability assessment,  Trusted Quid asked Mr O questions about his expenditure. The questions  
included asking Mr O about his credit  commitments. For loan 1, Mr O declared £400 of commitments 
towards credit cards  and nothing else for other credit  commitments.  For loan 2, he declared £450 for 
credit cards and again  nothing for other  credit commitments. Trusted  Quid also recorded  a zero 
figure for pay day loans. Its notes for loan 2 say Trusted Quid  included one credit card and an 
overdraft in the £450  figure.
But although  the checks were proportionate, I dont think Trusted Quid  properly  took into account all 
of the information it obtained  particularly  the results  of its credit check.
Ive only been able to interpret the details of the check for loan 2. But as the loans were  only 13 days 
apart, I dont  think its likely  the results for loan 1 would  have looked  very different.  A copy of a credit 
report provided by Mr O supports that the results  wouldve been broadly similar.
Included within the credit file data Trusted Quid obtained are the following details:
Mr O had £18,713  of outstanding debt
£13,689 of this was for loans
Mr Os monthly credit  commitments were £1,437
Mr O had 12 active credit accounts, 9 of which were opened in the last six months
Trusted Quid  hasnt explained if or how it reconciled  what Mr O told it (when it was manually 
underwing the loan) with the results  of the credit check. I think Trusted Quid did need to reconcile  this 
information somehow because it had information undermining  what Mr O told it about his credit  
commitments. I note that CONC 5.3.1G (4) says:
(4) If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):

(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customer's income and 
expenditure, on a statement  of those matters made by the customer
Ref: DRN42233793(c) its assessment should be based on what the firm knows at the time of the assessment.
Bearing in mind  the above  and the information on the credit report  it received, I dont think  it was 
reasonable for Trusted Quid to simply rely on what Mr O had said about  his credit commitments.  
Taking into account the number of active accounts  it knew  Mr O had  and the information  it received 
about Mr Os monthly  credit  commitments  I think Trusted Quid  had enough information in its 
possession to reasonably realise that Mr Os monthly credit commitments  were more than the £400-
£450 stated and upon which it based its affordability assessment.
If the £1,437 figure in the credit reference data is correct, Mr Os actual credit commitments were  
£987-£1,037 higher than stated.  Bearing in mind that Trusted Quid  originally calculated 
Mr Os disposable income as £780-£820, it would appear  that if Trusted Quid  had taken the 
information it obtained into account, neither loan would have been affordable for him.
Its clear from the credit  report  that Mr O had a number of other outstanding loans. He had 12 active 
accounts and having seen a copy of a credit report  provided by Mr O, there were about five short-term  
loans outstanding at the time of loan one and about seven at the time of loan two. The payments 
towards these  were around £1,150 at the time of loan one and about £1,500 at the time of loan two. 
Allowing for some margin for error, both figures are within a reasonable distance of the £1,437 figure  
obtained in Trusted Quids credit check. So I think its fair to say Trusted Quid  should  have taken  this 
figure into account and realised the loans  were not affordable for Mr O.
In summary, Im not currently persuaded that it was reasonable for Trusted Quid  to rely on the 
information Mr O provided about his credit  commitments. I think it shouldve taken into account  the 
information it obtained about Mr Os credit commitments from the credit reference agency  or 
otherwise shouldve  done  more to verify what Mr Os credit commitments were. And had Trusted Quid 
done this, I think it wouldve  realised the loans were  not affordable for him.
what Trusted  Quid needs to do to put things  right
I plan to say Trusted Quid should:
refund the interest and charges Mr O paid on his loans
add to the refund interest at 8% simple per year, from when the interest and charges were 
paid (if they were) until the date of settlement
remove any adverse  information about the loans from Mr Os credit file
Trusted Quid  has said loan two wasnt repaid.  If this is correct, Trusted Quid  will have to restructure 
the loan to remove  any interest and charges and treat any payments  made  as if they were payments 
towards the principal.  If this leaves a balance, Trusted Quid can offset  the redress for loan one 
against that balance.  It can only offset  the redress if it still owns the debt.
HM Revenue & Customs requires  Trusted Quid to take off tax from this interest. Trusted Quid  must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im planning to uphold the complaint and to tell Trusted Cash Limited  to put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Ref: DRN4223379