K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1989 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs L say Principality  Building Society (PBS) mis-sold them 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs L say they werent  told the policy was optional, and they felt pressured to take it 
out. Ive considered what theyve said, but Ive also looked  at the documents available from 
the sale of the PPI in order to come to a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  application which included a section for PPI. In 
this there  is both a yes and no option for the cover and the yes box has been ticked. But I 
think its clear  Mr and Mrs L had the option to decline  the cover  if they didnt want it. PBS 
says that Mr L wouldve  also been required to complete  and sign a separate PPI application 
form as the policy was taken out in his name only, but that this document is no longer 
available. In any event  the PPI was added to their account so I think  its more likely than not 
that he completed and signed the separate PPI application form. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs L have  said about being pressured into taking it out. But 
pressure is subjective  - what one person may feel is pressure another may not. And I havent 
seen any evidence to support what  theyve  said about this, so I cant  fairly and reasonably  
uphold the complaint on this point. But based on everything I have  seen I think PBS made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this.
Mr and Mrs L say they were advised to take out the policy.  PBS says that it didnt give Mr 
and Mrs L any advice  or recommendation. As things stand,  there isnt enough information  to 
determine this point. But being  able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had PBS 
recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable recommendation to have made  
for the reasons Ive set out below. As a result, Ive considered  the complaint as an advised 
sale. 
As an advised sale PSB wouldve had to check that the PPI was right for them   and based  
on what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances (as the insured party) at the time, I think  that it 
was. Ive seen  that Mr L was self-employed and so he doesnt think he wouldve been  able to 
make a valid claim on the policy because of this. Ive had a look at the Insurance Schedule  
from the time of sale which includes a summary of the exclusions and conditions of the 
policy. Having reviewed  these I havent  seen anything which  wouldve excluded  Mr L from 
making a claim or wouldve made it harder for a self-employed person to make  a claim than 
an employed person.  And although  this is not the full policy  document,  I think if there were 
Ref: DRN43846632any conditions or exclusions for a self-employed person on this policy I would expect  them to 
be mentioned in here.
Ive also looked  at the nearest available policy document. And although this is dated some 
years after the sale,  there is nothing  in the terms and conditions  which  made it harder for a 
self-employed person to make a claim.  So without  any stronger evidence to the contrary, I 
dont think Mr L was affected by this or any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And as a self-employed person, Mr L wouldnt  have  had any sick pay and without any 
savings to rely on had he been unable to work, I think he had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information PBS gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  PBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. But 
PBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because : 
PBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because PBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, PBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
PBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. PBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any extra interest  
they paid because of that.
PBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. PBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15%  on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Principality Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Principality Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2019.
Ref: DRN43846633Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384663