K820x#14complaint 
Mr Fs complaint is that Peter Richards  Financial Ltd failed to arrange a pension  transfer  in a 
timely manner. As a result  a new transfer  value had to be requested, and this was 
significantly lower than the original. Mr F considers the firm failed in its duty of care which 
resulted in him suffering  a financial loss. 
background
In summary,  Mr F was a deferred member of a defined benefit  occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) and was approaching his normal retirement age for it. The scheme  administrators 
sent him a retirement pack outlining the various  options open to him which included the 
possibility of taking  a transfer  value  and transferring the pension to another arrangement.  
The transfer value  quoted  was £277,787.
Mr F said after careful consideration of his options he decided to transfer. But on completing 
and returning  the relevant forms the scheme  administrators informed him that he was unable  
to transfer without taking independent financial advice. The administrators provided a new 
transfer value  as at 19 May 2017,  which had increased slightly to £280,610. It was 
guaranteed until the 19 August 2017.
Mr F had a meeting with Peter Richards  Financial Ltd (which  I will refer to as PRFL)  about 
the prospective transfer on 14 June 2017. Mr F was told that PRFL didnt have the relevant 
permissions to advise  on a pension transfer but would use the services of a pension  transfer  
specialist to determine whether a transfer  was in his interests. 
PRFL engaged the pension transfer  specialist (which I will refer to as Firm A). Unbeknown to 
PRFL, Firm A had voluntarily had its permissions to provide transfer advice suspended on 
15 June 2017  following  a visit from the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Firm A has said it understood  the situation  was only temporary and short term and it 
accepted the business  from PRFL on that basis.  Firm A used another firm to carry out the 
research and information gathering stage of the transfer process. It was a connected firm 
and the same person was involved in both.  PRFL had engaged Firm A. And the second firm 
carried out its work for Firm A. For ease I will refer to both as Firm A in this decision.
Firm A sent a letter to the administrators  of the OPS on 16 June 2017 enclosing  a letter  of 
authority and requesting scheme  information.  It chased the administrators for information on 
11 July 2017 and was told that information was in the post. It asked the administrators to e-
mail it a copy. 
Firm A chased the administrators of the OPS  for information that they hadnt sent on 19 July 
2017. And again on 26 July 2017. They were told it would be looked at on 3 August 2017.  
The administrators  sent a letter dated  1 August 2017 saying there would be a charge for 
supplying the information requested. Firm A responded to the administrators on 7 August 
2017 saying the provision  of information  was a regulatory requirement.  And PRFL  wrote to 
Mr F on 9 August 2017  attaching a copy of the information  that had been requested. It said 
PRFL would cover the fee the administrators were  asking for if they still required it. Mr F     
e-mailed PRFL with information about the scheme  on 11 August 2017. He provided  a copy 
of information  about the funding position  of the scheme as at 31 October 2015. And a 
scheme booklet dated October 2011.
Ref: DRN45919942Firm A chased the administrators again on 16 August 2017 and were  told the request would 
be worked on on 21 August 2017. PRFL sent a letter to Mr F dated 17 August 2017 
explaining they were still waiting for information from the scheme.
The deadline  for the guaranteed transfer  value  passed  on 19 August 2017.
PRFL wrote to Mr F on 20 September 2017 explaining that Firm As permissions were  
suspended and further progress couldnt be made until it received the go ahead from the 
FCA. It said if Mr F didnt  want  to wait, the information that had been obtained to date could 
be passed to another  company. Mr F decided to use another firm which had to request a 
new transfer value.  This was almost £22,800 less than that offered on 19 May 2017. 
Mr F complained about the matter to PRFL  and subsequently referred it to us. Our 
adjudicators who investigated the complaint didnt recommend that it should  be upheld.  Their 
view, in summary, was that PRFL hadnt  caused the delays in the transfer  of the pension. 
Although there were  regulatory issues surrounding Firm A this hadnt delayed  the 
preparation of the pension  transfer report. Firm A hadnt breached  any regulatory rules as it 
was only researching and collecting  information.  And although some of the information  it had 
requested may not have been  required, the majority  was. 
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings.  He asked that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman if the points he made  didnt  change the adjudicators  opinion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The guaranteed transfer value had been  issued as at 19 May 2017. So by the time Firm A 
requested information  on 16 June 2017 (two days after Mr Fs meeting with PRFL), four 
weeks of the guaranteed period had passed. Mr F has explained the circumstances behind 
that which I understand. But ultimately,  this left about nine weeks to meet the deadline.
Mr F raised  a number of concerns following the adjudicators assessment. In particular that 
Firm A didnt have the legal capacity to take on his case or issue  a report at the relevant 
times; failed  to consider his particular circumstances  and kept requesting unnecessary 
information from the administrators knowing their long response  times; and failed to request 
a new CETV  when the 19 May 2017  one had expired. 
The nature of the relationships between the different parties  involved isnt entirely  clear.   It 
appears that Mr F was PRFLs client and it effectively subcontracted the work to Firm A. 
There is evidence that PRFL intended to introduce  Mr F to Firm A (who he would then have 
a direct relationship  with). However the evidence suggests that what happened here was 
that Mr F was PRFLs client  possibly  because it didnt get to the stage where  a transfer  
report was produced and advice given  . Firm A were  effectively carrying out the work for 
PRFL. In the particular  circumstances,  I think  PRFL was responsible for any errors made by 
Firm A in carrying out the service it had been  engaged to provide. PRFL would in turn be 
able to pursue  Firm A for any losses caused  by it given its client  relationship. 
However I think whats key here is that irrespective of the particular  agreement  between the 
parties, I dont think there were failures by either  PRFL or Firm A (acting for PRFL) that 
caused the loss of the May 2019 guaranteed transfer value. An error  or omission by a firm 
Ref: DRN45919943doesnt, in itself, create an entitlement to compensation. It would have to be shown that the 
alleged errors or omissions caused the losses that were the subject of the claim. 
Like the adjudicators,  I dont think there  were any material delays in requesting  information 
or acting  on receipt  of information. And although  I agree  with Mr F that there was some 
information requested  that was unnecessary, there  was other  information  that hadnt  been 
provided and was material to providing  appropriate  advice. 
Mr F has said that hed given the transfer  careful consideration on receipt  of the original 
transfer value.  He said he was already in drawdown, had completed his own calculations  
and had started the process to transfer. So I understand Mr F may already have been 
minded to transfer and focused  on the benefits of such a transfer.
However when providing advice  a firm has to consider all the circumstances  to ensure that 
its advice is appropriate.  Whilst  I accept that ultimately a transfer may have been suitable  for 
Mr F the firm had to consider all the options  available  including  all the benefits  offered by 
the scheme itself and what Mr F may have  potentially lost on transfer. 
OPS benefits can differ between schemes, and some are not always obvious. The FCA 
says firms advising retail clients about transfers of defined  benefits should start by assuming 
that a transfer  will not be suitable. Clearly it depends  on a clients individual  objectives and 
circumstances and those  of the scheme.  But a firm has to ensure its aware of exactly whats  
being given up to enable it to compare  it with the benefits gained on transfer. It needs to be 
in a position to provide suitable  advice. Mr F supplied PRFL  with a scheme  booklet  and 
information about the schemes funding position  on 11 August 2017. However the firm would 
still have had to satisfy itself that information was the most up to date otherwise it would 
leave itself open to missing  important information.  
PRFL says it became  aware that Firm A had voluntarily suspended its permissions on 12 
July 2017. It said Firm A told it that it wouldnt affect  existing  cases  as it expected  to be 
authorised again in the near term. I am satisfied  that PRFL  acted in good faith. However I 
think Firm A should have  alerted PRFL  to its change in regulatory position when PRFL  
engaged its services. Whilst Firm A thought it would regain its permission in the short  term 
there was a risk it could  affect the transfer  process if it didnt. 
However Firm A was able to gather information  about the transfer and from the OPS. It 
wasnt breaching  any regulatory rules.  Although  Firm A wasnt  allowed to provide advice 
during the period, it didnt  get to the advice stage. I accept that had it obtained all the 
relevant information  and there had been a delay because it couldnt provide advice or a 
delay in engaging another appropriate  firm the position may have been  different. But thats 
not actually what  happened.  And it may have provided the information  to another  firm that 
was able to produce  a report  in time.  But this is just speculation. 
In the circumstances of this case,  Im not persuaded that PRFLs decision to engage Firm A 
as the pension transfer specialist caused  the loss of the May 2017 guaranteed transfer value 
(due to its regulatory status).
As I said earlier,  almost a month of the guaranteed transfer value period had passed by the 
time Mr F had his meeting with PRFL.  There was still enough  time to complete the transfer  in 
the remaining  period, but it did mean  that it was obviously tighter. I note that when Mr F 
employed another firm to complete the transfer it still took it several weeks  to issue its report, 
already having  the information  that Firm A had passed onto it. 
Ref: DRN45919944I dont think it was an error not to immediately request a new transfer value  given the time 
taken to obtain information up to that point I think  it was reasonable to bottom out the 
information requests  before requesting another CETV with its associated deadline. And a 
new transfer value  could have been the same, higher or lower  as Mr F was aware,  as the 
19 May 2019 transfer value was slightly higher than the original one hed obtained.  I dont 
think it was unreasonable of it to gather all the scheme information that was necessary 
before requesting a new transfer  value.  
As I have set out above, I do think there were some failings by the firm. But ultimately, I dont 
think it was responsible for any material delays in requesting information or acting on receipt 
of the information it did receive.  And taking  everything into account, I dont think  the loss of 
the higher transfer value was caused by the firms  failings.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4591994