K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the service shes received from Computershare Investor Services 
Plc.
background
Mrs C was employed by a company R and was a member of their employee share scheme  
which is administered by Computershare.
In October  2017 Mrs C left Rs employment  and Computershare sent her a leavers  pack  
explaining her options in relation to the five share schemes shed participated  in. 
Later the same month Mrs C completed  and returned a share leaver  form choosing  to 
withdraw her savings from three of the five schemes. 
On 19 January 2018 Mrs C contacted Computershare in relation  to her two remaining 
schemes. Computershare agreed  to send her further forms, one of which they received back  
on 31 January 2018. This form instructed that the shares from one of the schemes  be 
transferred into a vested  share account (VSA). The transfer took place the following day and 
Computershare say the shares have been  available to be sold since that date. 
In March 2018 Mrs C returned a form in relation to the remaining share scheme  and the 
shares were  added to the VSA. Mrs C says she is yet to sell any of the shares.
Being unhappy with the service shed  received  Mrs C complained to Computershare  and 
later to our service.  Mrs C says the call agent  referred to the form she required as a Leaver 
Form of Direction. And that this caused her to believe  she didnt have the correct form. The 
forms she had were  titled Sharesave Leaver Form. Mrs C was also unhappy with some  of 
the phone  calls which she says were handled atrociously. 
Mrs C says the confusion  caused delays during which time Rs share price fell. She would 
like to be compensated as if she had sold her shares sooner, when the price was higher. 
Computershare didnt uphold the complaint. They  dont agree they caused delays and said 
that as Mrs C hasnt yet sold the shares, she hasnt suffered  a financial loss. Mrs C referred 
her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think  
Computershare had done anything wrong, and so didnt recommend that they need to take 
any further action.  
Mrs C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. So Im not upholding it. Let me explain why.
Ive looked at the Sharesave Leaver Form and I think  it is clear.  There are options to tick for 
each scheme. These allow the customer to either buy shares,  withdraw savings and any 
interest or to continue  to save until maturity. 
Ref: DRN40476032Mrs C completed  the form and withdrew funds in October 2017. So I think  she would have 
had at least some familiarity  with the form when it came  to January 2018 when she wished 
to give further instructions.
I accept there has been some confusion  as I dont  think Mrs C wouldve requested  further 
forms if shed known  she already had the correct ones. But even if I were to conclude  that 
Computershare were responsible for this confusion (which I dont), I dont  think  this has 
caused Mrs C any financial loss. 
Mrs C told our investigator  she is yet to sell the shares  when to do so is entirely her 
decision. Computershare  say the shares  have been available  to sell since  their respective 
transfer dates into the VSA. I dont think Computershare are responsible  for Mrs Cs decision 
not to do so. 
Mrs C contacted Computershare for more forms to provide instructions on 19 January 2018. 
And whilst I understand  there were some  issues around the receipt  of the forms  
Computershare still received Mrs Cs completed  form back  on 31 January 2018. This is only 
eight working days  in total, and Computershare have  explained  that they have a five working 
day service level agreement. 
I dont think this is in itself unreasonable and I dont think  Computershare are responsible for 
unnecessary delays. I understand Mrs C is deeply  unhappy with the service  shes received 
and with one phone  call in particular where  she ended  up terminating the call. But looking at 
the complaint  as a whole, Im not persuaded that the impact  of this is sufficient that 
compensation needs to be paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4047603