K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the way UK Insurance  Limited (UKI) dealt with his motor insurance 
claim. 
background
In September  2018, Mr D was involved in an accident when his car hit a third partys car 
after it came  across his lane on a motorway. Due to the accident,  Mr Ds car was a write-off.  
The third party says he was hit by another unknown vehicle which hasnt been identified. But 
it has been confirmed  that Mr D wasnt at fault.  
Mr D submitted his claim to UKI on 23 September 2018. He received the settlement of his 
claim on 29 September 2018  with the deducted  amount of £300 for his excess. The excess 
was refunded by UKI on 19 October 2018.
Mr D says it didnt process  his claim as quickly as it should have. The delay meant  he was 
without a car for a period of time and Mr D says he couldnt attend  a college course he had 
booked as he was unable to get there.  
UKI has acknowledged that the claim was logged  incorrectly, and it shouldnt have charged 
Mr D the excess cost when it paid out the value of Mr Ds car. It also said it should have 
offered him the option of using a credit  hire company. But that it couldnt be sure any credit 
hire company wouldve offered him a car because  of the circumstances surrounding  the 
accident. So UKI refunded the excess cost of £300 and awarded Mr D £150 in recognition of 
the inconvenience caused by its errors.  
Mr D wasnt happy with that response; he wanted  UKI to reimburse him for the cost of the 
repairs hed had done on the car a few weeks  before  the accident. This amount was £363. 
Our adjudicator initially upheld  Mr Ds complaint and asked UKI to award  a further £150 to 
Mr D for the cost of the course  hed missed. UKI didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. 
Our adjudicator then explained to Mr D that he thought the £150 offer was fair. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute that UKI has made  an error here which  has caused Mr D inconvenience 
and slowed down  the progress of his claim.  So what Ive got to consider is whether UKI has 
done enough to put things right. 
Ive thought about whether UKI not offering  Mr D the option of using a credit hire company 
has meant he has lost out. But I dont think  it has, UKI didnt have a contractual  obligation to 
offer a hire car. It could  have referred him on but even if it did, there  was no guarantee that 
hed have got a car because of the complexity  of his claim. 
Ref: DRN47406012Mr D has said he had to cancel attending a college course because  he was unable to get 
there. But this was an uninsured loss and wasnt covered under Mr Ds policy,  so I wouldnt 
be looking  to UKI to reimburse this cost.
Turning now to the cost of the repairs Mr D paid on his car shortly before the accident. It was 
very unfortunate that the accident happened so soon after Mr D had paid for those  repairs 
but this isnt a cost that would be covered under his insurance. UKI has paid out the value of 
the car because it was unrepairable  and that is all we would expect it to do. So, I wont  be 
asking UKI to pay for the costs of the repairs. 
Ive looked at the amount  of compensation UKI has offered. Taking into account the 
circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied £150 is a fair and reasonable amount  for UKI to 
pay Mr D for the fact it didnt categorise  his claim correctly.  This led to Mr D having to chase  
things up and caused a delay in Mr D being refunded his excess. 
Ive noted Mr Ds comments about the fact he is paying more for his premium. I have 
checked with UKI and it has confirmed this accident  has been  recorded as a non-fault  claim. 
So Mr D will need to speak to his current insurer  as to what the reason is that hes paying 
more. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping  for but Im not going to ask UKI to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
If it hasnt  done  so already, U K Insurance Limited should reimburse Mr D the excess costs 
of £300 and pay him £150 for the inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4740601