K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr H took out a credit card in March 2002. At the same time he was sold PPI to protect  his 
credit card monthly  repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Mr H disagrees.  Hes mainly concerned that 
PPI wasnt clearly explained and that if the terms had been  made  sufficiently clear to him 
then he wouldve realised  he didnt  need the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H applied for this credit card with PPI by filling in a postal application.  Its completely 
understandable that Mr H mightve forgotten exactly what happened  so long ago. But the 
way the application form is set out makes it clear  that it was up to Mr H to say if he wanted  to 
take out PPI with his credit card. And he indicated on the form that he wanted to have PPI. 
So, I find that Capital  One made Mr H aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to take 
it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for him. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr H enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him.
Mr H was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
PPI covered Mr H in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Ive taken into account that Mr H wouldve had up to 6 months  full sick pay. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer  - up to 12 months for each successful claim. 
So it provided better protection than Mr H wouldve had if he was off work sick or disabled 
and hed just been relying on his sick pay through work. 
And the policy wouldve paid out for 12 months per claim if Mr H lost his job unexpectedly 
and he was out of work.  
Although Mr H had other PPI set up, this protected different borrowing. 
Ive also taken into account that he had a private  healthcare policy in place. But this offered 
a different sort of cover to PPI. 
Ref: DRN42921172Based on everything  hes told us, I think Mr H couldve  benefitted from the PPI.   
 
Its possible some information Capital One gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Hs case. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to have PPI.
I dont think the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr H when he bought  the policy. But, from what  
Ive seen, Mr H hasnt  suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums.  And he 
chose to take out the policy when he didnt have  to, so it seems Mr H wanted this type of 
cover at the time. Looked at overall, I think Mr H still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if 
hed been better informed. The policy gave  him worthwhile protection in his particular 
situation. So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means  Capital One (Europe) Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One (Europe) Plc got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr H about that. Because 
Capital One (Europe) Plc didnt  tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One (Europe)  Plc has paid back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4292117