K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the way TSB Bank plc has treated her while shes  been in financial 
difficulties and unable  to pay off arrears on her mortgage.
background
Ms M and her husband, Mr L, took out a 25 year repayment mortgage for around £185,000 
in July 2004. The loan was transferred to TSB Bank plc (TSB)  by the original lender in 
around 2015.
Ms M has been paying the whole of the mortgage  for around 12 years since her husband left 
the property. In about November 2007  it was converted to an interest only mortgage  to ease 
financial pressures when  they were divorcing. Theres  around £183,000 left to pay and 
Ms Ms said the value  of the property is about £350,000. 
In 2017 Ms M suffered  a serious accident  and couldnt keep up her mortgage payments. She 
cashed in her pension and paid off part of the mortgage. But she has arrears of around 
£3,000. 
Ms M spoke to TSB in January 2018 and again in April 2018.  Theres a dispute between 
Ms M and TSB about what was discussed and agreed. And the parties havent been able to 
reach agreement about  what should happen next about paying off the arrears.  
Ms M feels TSB have  treated her unfairly  in a number of ways  but our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint.  So the matters been referred  to me to review  as Ms M was unhappy 
with that outcome. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Under the terms of the mortgage Mr L and Ms M had to make the contractual monthly 
payments (CMP)  throughout  its 25 year term. I understand Mr L is still party to the 
mortgage. TSB did contact him to see if he could help but he was uncooperative. TSB can 
ask Ms M alone to make  payments as she and her husband are jointly and severally  liable 
for them. And if the contractual  monthly  payments are not made on time TSB is allowed, 
under the mortgage agreement, to charge fees at the rates which  apply from time to time.
Until around July 2016 Ms M hadnt had any difficulty in paying the mortgage. Unfortunately 
following her accident, from which shes still recovering, it became difficult for her to make  
her mortgage payments  as she cant work. She fell into arrears and charges have been 
added to her account as a result.
By cashing in her pension and with help from relatives she was able to make some ad hoc 
payments to reduce the arrears. From September 2017 the Department of Work and 
Pensions (DWP)  began to make payments of around half the contractual  monthly  payment.  
The DWP stopped paying for a couple of months in April 2018 but resumed payments later 
that year. I understand these are continuing. Ms M has been  paying the rest of the CMP but 
hasnt been able to offer more than £5 a month  towards  reducing  the arrears.
Ref: DRN40437302TSBs agreed several  short term payment arrangements while its been discussing with 
Ms M how shell pay off the remaining arrears.  It hasnt  charged arrears fees while  those 
arrangements have been in place. But when theyve ended, its added charges to her 
account. And no agreements been reached  about  how Ms M will pay off her arrears within a 
reasonable timeframe.
Ms Ms made the following complaints about  TSB:
She feels harassed because she receives a call each time a payment arrangement 
comes to an end
Shes been told to sell the property even though the arrears are only about £3,000
On a call in January  2018 she didnt say she would sell a piece of land to pay off the 
arrears as TSB have  suggested
She didnt realise the payment arrangement agreed in January 2018  was only for 
three months
TSB wouldnt  agree to another payment plan allowing her pay £5 a month towards  
her arrears when she thought it would be possible once the amount of DWP 
contributions from around July 2018  had been  confirmed  
TSB have added charges to her account  which she wants removed
I would expect a customer whos finding  it difficult to keep up their mortgage payments to be 
in regular contact  with their lender and to discuss with the lender in a meaningful  way how 
they will clear  their arrears in a reasonable timeframe. I would expect the lender to keep in 
contact with the borrower and to consider ways of helping the borrower to get back on track. 
So, whilst I appreciate Ms Ms situation is a stressful one, I dont think  its unreasonable  
TSBs contacted her when payment arrangements have  come to an end to discuss  how she 
will pay off the arrears.  And TSBs offered to write to Ms M rather  than ring if she prefers.
Ms M tried to sell her house in late 2016 but a potential sale fell through some months later. 
TSB discussed a possible assisted voluntary  sale with her but that didnt  go ahead. And 
Ms M has since  wanted to stay in the house. Theres  no evidence TSB told Ms M she must 
sell her house. It raised it as a possibility on a call in January 2018. Since Ms Ms been 
unable to show how she can pay off the arrears in a reasonable  timeframe another way, I 
dont think its unreasonable that TSB discussed this with Ms M this as part of considering 
her options  to repay the arrears.  
When TSB spoke to Ms M in January 2018  it assessed her income and expenditure which 
showed she had significant negative income even though family members living with her 
were paying  board and lodging and DWP  payments  were being made from September  2017 
onwards. Ms M told TSB her financial  circumstances  were unlikely to improve in the 
foreseeable future. And the DWP  payments were about to end so her financial situation 
would get worse. TSB explained it needed  to see some way of reducing the arrears if it was 
to agree future payment  arrangements. 
Ms M told TSB on the January 2018 call she had planning permission on a piece of land at 
the end of her garden she thought she could sell for around £100,000 without affecting the 
value of her property. She also raised  the possibility of taking in a lodger. Although Ms M 
said these wouldnt be immediate solutions, I think TSB reasonably  understood from the 
conversation Ms M would look into these possibilities straight away as a way to clear her 
arrears. And it was on that understanding TSB agreed to a temporary payment arrangement 
for three months, with a review in April 2018.  Under this arrangement  TSB accepted £5 a 
month towards the arrears in addition to the contractual monthly payment.
Ref: DRN40437303When TSB contacted Ms M to review  things in April 2018 she hadnt looked into the 
proposals to sell off the land or take in a lodger. Ms Ms said she didnt understand the 
arrangement shed reached  with TSB in January was only temporary  and she wouldve 
looked more closely  into her financial situation  if shed realised that. But I think  TSB made it 
clear on the call the arrangement would come to an end in March.  And TSB wrote to Ms M to 
confirm the terms of the payment arrangement. So I think Ms M wouldve known  the position.
Ms M made  it clear  on the April call her financial situation hadnt changed. She wanted to 
make the temporary  arrangement a permanent one. TSB explained to Ms M it couldnt 
accept a proposal that didnt lead to her arrears being cleared within the term of the 
mortgage. Since she wasnt able to make a proposal that would do that, TSB wouldnt agree 
to another arrangement at that stage. When Ms M spoke to TSB again in July 2018 she still 
wasnt able to make any alternative proposals. But TSB has since  agreed two further 
temporary arrangements with Ms M in September 2018 and December 2018, with the most 
recent arrangement  due to end in mid-March 2019. 
I wouldnt expect TSB to agree to put in place a permanent payment arrangement. Its 
reasonable for TSB to want to check with borrowers in arrears from time to time whether 
their financial  circumstances have  changed to enable them  to reduce their arrears more  
quickly. And I think TSBs been fair to Ms M in agreeing further arrangements  to give her 
more time to put in place plans to repay  the arrears and avoid charges being added  to her 
account. 
I would expect TSB to consider a range of concessions  when a borrower is in financial 
difficulties. TSB has placed Ms M with their specialist team. Its provided Ms M with details of 
agencies which can help people  in financial difficulties. It contacted Mr L to see if he would 
help. And its agreed a series of payment arrangements to give her time to put forward  
proposals to pay off the arrears. TSBs done what Id expect it to in the circumstances of 
Ms Ms complaint and I think it has treated her fairly overall. 
Ms Ms said she doesnt expect her financial circumstances to improve in the foreseeable 
future. Unfortunately she doesnt  know if or when shell  be able to return to work given her 
health issues. And she hasnt been able to put forward  any proposals to pay off the arrears.  
Even though  combined the total loan and arrears  seem to be well below  the value of the 
property, unless Ms M is able to make a reasonable proposal to pay off the arrears before 
the term end, I think its reasonable for TSB to continue to discuss  things with her and to 
take steps to recover the arrears if they decide  to. 
Ms Ms unhappy about the charges TSB has put on her account. As Ive explained,  TSB is 
allowed to put charges  on the account  when a borrower is in arrears. This is to cover the 
extra costs  of administration  it incurs. I can consider if the charges are fair. TSB agreed not 
to charge the fees when  it arranged  payment  agreements with Ms M, and it didnt  do so. It 
did add the charges when  the agreements ended. I think it was fair for TSB to do that since it 
was taking active steps to address the arrears with Ms M and she wasnt  able to make  any 
proposals to clear the arrears in a reasonable time.  It also agreed  to remove  some of the 
charges when Ms M complained. Overall I think TSBs been fair to Ms M about when its 
charged her fees. Arrears  fees are intended  to reflect  the extra costs a lender  has in dealing  
with a borrower in arrears  and I can see TSB was working with Ms M in those months.
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think TSB has acted  reasonably  and treated Ms M fairly. 
And, whilst I know  Ms M will be disappointed,  I dont uphold  her complaint. Ms Ls mentioned 
Ref: DRN40437304she may be able to make some sort of provision to pay off the arrears  in the future. If she 
can I would  urge her to discuss  this with TSB now to see if they can come to an arrangement 
thats acceptable to them both. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4043730