K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Auto Network  UK Limited mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2006 when  he bought a car.
background
Mr C complained to this Service. He bought a car in 2006 from a Car Dealership, and at the 
same time he took out a loan with the lender, Company P. He told us PPI was added  to the 
loan without his knowledge; he said no-one talked to him about PPI. He said all the financial 
documents were  sorted out upstairs in a business centre. He initially brought his complaint 
against the insurance company. The insurance company advised him to complain against 
Company P. Company  P advised him to complain  against Broker  Company C which  was an 
appointed representative of Auto Network UK Limited from 2005 to 2008; and Company C 
(through Auto Network) advised  him to complain to the Car Dealership.
Lender Company  P told us it was not responsible for the PPI sale. It said Broker  Company C 
was responsible because it received a commission for the PPI sale.
Company C (and therefore Auto Network)  said it was not responsible  for the PPI sale 
because it had no direct  contact with Mr C; it acted as a finance broker  between  the Car 
Dealership and Company  P to help to arrange  the loan. 
The Car Dealership said it was not responsible for the PPI sale because it said the 
documents clearly  showed JL from Company C handled the PPI sale and the 
correspondence with the lender and insurer was handled by Company  C.
Our adjudicator thought Auto Network was responsible  for looking at this PPI sale because  
Company C was Auto Networks appointed representative at the time of the sale; JL who 
worked for Company C was involved in the loan and PPI sale and also because Company C 
had received commission for the sale.
Another adjudicator  looked at the merits of Mr Cs complaint and said the complaint  should 
be upheld against  Auto Network  because he thought  Mr C did not satisfy the eligibility  
criteria to buy the policy.
Auto Network disagreed  with our adjudicators views and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. I issued my provisional decision in January where I explained why I thought Auto 
Network was responsible  for the sale through  its appointed representatives actions. I also 
explained why I would  not uphold  Mr Cs complaint against Auto Network. I sent my 
provisional decision to both parties and invited them to comment  before  I drafted my final 
decision. Auto Network  did not raise any new evidence so I will continue  to conclude  Auto 
Network is responsible for the PPI sale in my final decision. 
Mr C raised the following  points about  the merits of his PPI complaint:
He had already provided proof that he was at university/college  at the time of the sale 
 and so he was not eligible to buy PPI;
At no point was PPI mentioned;
He did not read the terms  of the agreement at the time of the sale;
Auto Network was aware  he was a student at the time of the sale;
He would not have got the loan unless he had some sort of income  or a job;
Ref: DRN45846572He showed  Auto Network his passport,  student  letter and anything else he was 
asked for;
Auto Network told him the finance had gone through and it asked him to sign to 
agree to pay a certain amount  each month.
Mr C has not raised any new points  so I had considered all his arguments  in my 
provisional decision. I can confirm that Mr C sent in proof that he qualified on a certain date 
but we asked him to send in proof that he was a student for a two year period before he got 
the qualification. He has not sent in any further  documents so there is no new evidence for 
me to consider. This means I see no reason to change the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether Auto Network is responsible for the sale of the 
policy to Mr C. If I dont  think Auto Network was responsible for the sale of the policy, then 
Im clearly  not able to consider  a complaint about the PPI mis-sale against it. 
In this case, I think the representative - Ill call JL - from finance broker  Company C sold the 
PPI to Mr C. Company C was an appointed representative of Auto Network  at the time of the 
sale. So I think Auto Network is responsible for the PPI sale (through JLs actions working  for 
Company C at the time.) Auto Network  has not challenged this finding so I will continue  this 
final decision  on the basis Auto Network is responsible for the PPI sale.
I will go on to look at the merits of the complaint. However, I dont think  the policy  was mis-
sold because:
 I think Auto Network made it clear on the loan agreement that Mr C didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out by signing the agreement  although  I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
 Auto Network didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
 Its possible the information Auto Network gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it looks like he was 
eligible for cover (unless he could  show he was a full time student or had worked for less 
than six months) and it looks  like he was unaffected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  currently  think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN45846573Ive thought about everything Mr C told us  including what  he said about  being a student for 
more than 20 hours per week  at the time he bought  the PPI. Mr C produced a copy of his 
certificate to confirm he qualified in November 2007  he says this shows  he was a full time 
student at the time of the PPI sale. However, the loan agreement completed at the time of 
the sale says he was working full time for 2 years  with the same employer and earning 
£1,000 per month. So Mr Cs point  about his status as a student doesnt change  my decision 
because he hasnt produced any evidence to confirm he was a full time student at the time 
he bought the PPI or that he had worked  for less than six months.  
I have also reconsidered  our adjudicators view that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld 
because his employment was not permanent and had a specific  end date. I have looked at 
the PPI policy. The policy will not pay benefits if:
your fixed term contract  ends unless you have been continuously employed by the same 
employer for the last 2 years.
As I said above, the loan agreement says Mr C was working full time with his employer for 
2 years.  I dont think this term would have applied to Mr C. So I cannot  uphold his complaint  
for this reason.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think Auto Network is responsible for the PPI sale but 
I am not going  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Auto Network  UK Limited is responsible for this PPI sale but I do not 
uphold Mr Cs PPI mis-sale complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584657