K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  card in 2000 over the telephone.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs M owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs M couldnt work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job until her unemployment or her disability 
ended or the outstanding amount was repaid.
The heart of Mrs Ms complaint is that she didnt knowingly  agree to the PPI and it was 
added without her knowledge.  And Mrs M has told us that it wasnt  right for her as she had 
excellent benefits from work so she had no need  for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  I appreciate  this will come as a disappointment 
and Ill explain my reasons why.
As the sale took place such a long time ago FICL cant  provide all the information from the 
time. Thats not unusual. But where the information is incomplete I will make my decision 
based on whats most likely to have happened taking into account what  both parties have 
told us, the paperwork  thats available and also thinking  about what  we know about these 
types of sales at the time.
The first thing Ive thought  about  was whether Mrs M was given a fair choice about taking out 
the PPI. I think she was most likely  given  an option  to accept the PPI and she chose to take 
it out knowing she could  decline it if she didnt want it. I think  she took out the PPI once the 
credit had been set up. And taking  into account what we know  about  these  types of sales,  I 
think its more likely  that FICL gave her the choice when she applied  for her PPI on the 
telephone.
I dont think its likely  FICL advised Mrs M to buy the PPI. That meant it didnt have to make 
sure it was suitable for her. But it still had to give her enough clear information  so she could 
decide for herself whether  or not she wanted the policy.
Ref: DRN45959692Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even  if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information,  I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken  out the policy.  I say this because she 
was eligible for the cover  and doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, such as unusual employment  circumstances or a pre-existing medical 
condition.
Mrs M has told us she would have received six months full sick pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work through accident or illness. But the PPI policy  could have paid out 15% of the 
outstanding balance until she was able to return  to work or until the balance was cleared - so 
it was a good benefit compared with other similar policies at the time.  This would be paid in 
addition to, and would  have lasted potentially for longer than any sick pay she may have 
received. And it would have provided cover  if she lost her job. So I still think  the PPI could 
have been useful.
And although I note that Mrs M has told us that the extra cost of the PPI caused her some  
financial difficulty, theres nothing to make  me think the PPI was unaffordable at the time she 
took it out and it only accounted for a small proportion  of the amount spent on the store  card.   
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I think  its likely Mrs M chose the cover.  
So it looks  like she wanted this type of insurance.  I think the policy  could have been useful if 
something went wrong and I dont  think Mrs M would have been put off taking it out even 
with better  or clearer information. So I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything  
FICL may have done wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4595969