K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont tell him why his premiums for his 
landlord Insurance have gone up.
background
Mr H had a landlord  insurance  policy with UKI. For the renewal in January 2018  the premium  
went up by nearly 20%. Mr H wanted  to know why. UKI said that the reason for the premium 
increase was due to changes within its risk assessment tool and the way it rated risk. It was 
unable to provide  Mr H with further  information in regard to the tools that it uses  as it would 
be classed as commercially sensitive information.  Mr H thought this was unfair and referred 
his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied Mr H had been   
treated fairly but couldnt tell him exactly why the premium had increased apart from a 
general reassessment and an increase in Insurance Premium Tax (IPT).
Mr H wasnt satisfied with that and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I understand that Mr H would like me to speak to him. I dont think thats 
necessary. I have all the information I need  to decide this complaint which in my view is quite 
clear. 
Mr Hs premium has gone up by nearly  20%, and he wants  to know the reason why. 
Generally insurers are free to charge whatever premiums they want to (apart  from a few 
limited exceptions).  The customer is free to decide whether to renew or to look for other 
insurance. Obviously  this is subject to market forces and an insurer  would  be unlikely to 
price itself out of the market.
Here the premium went up by just over £20. As our adjudicator explained some  of this is due 
to an increase in IPT (of 2%). I think its likely that the balance is accounted for by UKIs 
rating of the policy using  its risk assessment tool. UKI has shared some of that information 
with us which allowed  us to see that there was no extra  loading  just for Mr Hs policy (which 
might apply if there were  any claims) but there was a general increase which was applied  
across the board for all policyholders in  a similar  position. Our procedures do allow us to 
receive confidential information. I think,  taking that into account, that Mr H was treated fairly.
I understand that Mr H would like more  specific  information in case  there is something he 
needs to be concerned about eg an increase in the flood risk. Although the premium  has 
increased over the rate of inflation, I think it likely that if there were any such re-rating, the 
premium would go up by a lot more (and, if that related to flood UKI would probably tell him). 
So whilst I understand Mr Hs concerns I dont  think  its appropriate to require UKI to share 
commercially sensitive  information with him. 
Ref: DRN41273262my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4127326