K822xThis complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Gs signed  credit  agreement. On it there  is a section related to 
PPI and the box opting for the policy has a printed cross in it. As this policy was sold in a 
face-to-face meeting  I think its likely this selection came  about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Mrs G, where  PPI was discussed.  Mrs G has signed 
the form so I think its likely  to reflect what she wanted. And theres  nothing  on the form 
to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think  its likely Halifax  made  it clear  
that Mrs G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mrs G says she would not have received any sick pay or other means she couldve relied 
on to make her repayments. But the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  if she 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness or unemployment. So I think  she 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said, including  what  shes  said about working 
less than 16 hours per week at the time of sale. She says for this reason she wasnt  
eligible for the policy. But Ive looked  carefully  at the policy  terms that likely applied to 
Mrs G  and can see that the hours she worked  would not have prevented  her from 
being eligible  for this policy. So this point  doesnt  change my decision.  
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Mrs G paid for it. But I understand Halifax  has 
offered to give Mrs G back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision  if it has not 
already done so. 
Ref: DRN45884032my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4588403