K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that because  
Santander told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less than 50% of what 
they paid, Santander didnt need  to pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs W about the commission it received - so Santander doesnt need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each  of these 
conclusions below.
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN41380772I say this because,  while  Santander  no longer  has all of the paperwork from the time of 
the sale  not unsurprising given  how long-ago  things happened  it does have Mr and 
Mrs Ws original  mortgage  application from 1981.  And this shows  that they didnt take out 
PPI at this time  they ticked a box to decline the cover.  Mr and Mrs W took out PPI 
some years later in 1992. And it doesnt  appear this was connected  to any application for 
lending  it was a separate and distinct transaction or interaction with Santander.  So it 
doesnt seem likely to me that Mr and Mrs W would  have  been under the impression that 
they had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W chose  to take out 
PPI and did so without undue pressure.  
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W - so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example Mr W as the sole policyholder was eligible for the cover and although he had 
some existing  means in the form of at least three months sick pay and a few hundred  
pounds in savings,  they still seem to have had a need  for cover.  The policy  would have 
paid out for up to 24 months per claim,  which was longer  than Mr Ws sick pay would 
have lasted. And I think Mr and Mrs Ws savings would  have  quickly  been used up if Mr 
W found himself unable  to work. 
 
There was nothing about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would  have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that Mr W had which could  affect  his ability  to claim. There  were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  and back problems.
So I dont  think it was wrong for Santander to have  recommended  the policy  to them.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs W as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information I think they were likely given (Santander has provided a leaflet 
which it says is representative  of the information Mr and Mrs W would have been 
provided with.). And at less than £6 a month  it also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went  wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs W would have declined the cover had Santander done anything  
more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ref: DRN41380773These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  Santander 
should have disclosed  the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint   just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need  to disclose the commission  it received, 
so Santander  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  a number of representations  about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs W should  get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs W about  the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about  the level of commission and they should  
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Santander has worked 
this out and based on what  weve seen,  Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Ws 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN41380774-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Santander  needed to tell Mr and Mrs W about the commission.  So it follows that 
I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs W unfairly. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Santander  UK Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138077