K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited wrongly recorded a CIFAS
marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud  alert service. Mr C says that, as a result  of
the marker,  he lost significant sums  in earnings. He wants  Shop Direct to compensate him
for those  losses.
background
In July 2014 Shop Direct received an application   made online  for a Very account in
Mr Cs name. The application  was approved and some purchases were made. They were 
sent to the address registered to the account.  However, Shop Direct  received no payment. 
Early in 2015 Shop Direct issued a default notice  and assigned the debt to a debt collection
business, Capquest. Around the same  time it recorded an entry with CIFAS for evasion  of
payment.
In fact, Mr C had moved from the address used for the account several months before the
application had been made. He hadnt  made the application  and hadnt  ordered or received
the goods sent to that address. Shop Direct appears  to accept that, although it didnt identify
it at the time.
Mr C says he became aware  of the debt when  his mortgage broker identified  information on
his credit file, later in 2015. Capquest asked the credit reference  agency to remove 
references to the debt from its credit file, and it appears that it did.
Mr C says however that he remained unaware  of the CIFAS entry  until early 2018.  He was
working as an IT consultant through his own company,  ultimately providing services  to a
major financial  institution on a six-month contract. That contract was due to end on 
4 June 2018 but it was terminated on 23 February   some 14 weeks early.  Mr C says that 
his company was charging £600  a day (plus VAT). He says too that he was unable to find 
replacement work to cover the balance of the terminated contract. Some time later the 
financial institution wrote  to Mr C to tell him that the contract with his company  had been  
terminated because  of the CIFAS marker against  his name.
Mr C contacted Shop Direct to explain what had happened and that he hadnt been living at
the account address when the account was opened. Having carried out further checks,
Shop Direct accepted what he had said and arranged  for the removal of the CIFAS marker
and offered Mr C £100 in compensation. It didnt however agree to make good Mr Cs lost
earnings. It said he could  have taken steps  to minimise his losses by seeking  alternative
work. Mr C said he wasnt able to find alternative  work until early 2019.  He referred the
matter to this service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Cs complaint. She agreed that Shop Direct had
been wrong to record a CIFAS marker  against Mr Cs name and invited it to increase its offer
to £300  which Shop Direct  agreed to do.
In respect of Mr Cs lost earnings,  however, the investigator noted that the contract had been
with Mr Cs company, not with Mr C himself.  So, she said,  the losses  were the companys,
not Mr Cs. She also considered that the losses were  not a reasonably  foreseeable
consequence of placing a CIFAS  marker  against  Mr Cs name. Shop Direct could not have
known that its actions might result  in Mr Cs company losing a contract  three years later.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman review them.
Ref: DRN42069032my provisional decision  
I noted in my provisional findings that there  was no real dispute about the underlying  facts.  
Mr C had moved house in early  2014,  and someone  had taken advantage of that fact to 
make a fraudulent  application for credit  in his name. Shop Direct had offered Mr C £300 in 
recognition of that and agreed to arrange  for the removal of the CIFAS entry. The issue  I had 
to consider was, therefore, whether any further  compensation  was merited  and, 
specifically, whether I should make an award in respect of Mr Cs claim for loss of earnings.
I was satisfied that Mr C had shown that his company was being paid £600 a day before 
VAT and that the companys contract  had been  terminated around 14 weeks  early. I was 
satisfied too that the reason for the early termination  was the CIFAS entry against Mr Cs 
name. 
I took the view that it was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of recording the CIFAS 
entry that Mr Cs earning capacity (whether directly or through his consultancy  company) 
would be affected.  I considered  too whether Mr C could  have  reduced  or offset his losses by 
taking alternative work, but accepted it was plausible  that he was unable  to find such work. 
Overall, I thought that Mr C had lost around £27,500  as a direct  result of having  the CIFAS 
marker against his name. I indicated that I thought  Shop  Direct  should pay Mr C this amount, 
together with interest at 8% a year, and a further £500 in recognition  of the distress  Mr C had 
suffered and the inconvenience to which hed been put. 
responses to my provisional  decision    
Mr C accepted my provisional  findings.  Shop Direct  too indicated that it was prepared  to 
accept them,  save in respect of my proposed  award  of interest on Mr Cs loss of earnings.  It 
said, in summary, that an award of 8% based on the statutory interest that courts  can award  
wouldnt be appropriate in this case. It said that in recent years courts have routinely 
awarded less than that and noted  that in that time the Bank of England base rate has been 
less than 1% a year. A simple rate of 1-2% would reflect the rate Mr C could have achieved 
in a savings account over the same period. 
Because Shop Direct didnt accept all of my provisional findings, Ive reviewed the case 
before issuing this final decision. But, since the only issue still in dispute  is the appropriate 
rate of interest, Ive focused on that.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, both parties have said they accept the main  thrust  of my findings.  And I 
remain of the view that an award  of £27,500 in respect of Mr Cs losses  is appropriate, 
together with a further £500. But I need to consider further the appropriate rate of interest  on 
the £27,500. 
As Shop Direct has noted, 8% is the statutory  rate of interest which  applies to High Court  
judgments (under  section 17 of the Judgments Act 1838). Courts  also have a discretion  to 
award interest before judgment. But interest doesnt  apply automatically  to my awards,  and I 
have a discretion  whether to award  interest at all and, if I do, what  rate I should  apply. So, 
whilst its not uncommon for an ombudsmans award to use a rate of 8%, its open to me to 
apply a different  rate  which might  be higher or lower. 
Ref: DRN42069033But an award of interest  isnt necessarily intended to reflect what  a complainant  might  have  
earned in interest.  Its intended  at least in part  to reflect the cost to the complainant  of 
being deprived of money. The cost of not having money is, in many cases, more closely 
linked to what it would cost to borrow that money  than it is to the loss of interest that could 
have been earned on it. I believe thats  the case here.
Whilst Mr C hasnt challenged the rate of interest I proposed,  he has said that he had to 
borrow money to cover  the gap in earnings, sometimes  using credit cards.  Credit  card 
borrowing often costs  rather more  than 8% a year.  
Taking those factors  into consideration,  I havent changed my view that an appropriate rate 
of interest here is 8%. 
my final decision
For these reasons my provisional decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Cs complaint,
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited should  pay Mr C:
£27,500;
interest on £27,500  at 8% a year simple  from 4 June 2018  until the date of payment; 
and
£500 in recognition  of the distress Mr C has suffered and the inconvenience to which  
hes been put.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4206903