K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Scotland PLC t/a Halifax (Halifax) blocked  her account after 
she made a transfer  to another account.  To put things right, Ms H wants  Halifax to pay her 
lost interest and compensation.
background
On 31 March 2019, Ms H attempted make a transfer for £2,250 from her Halifax account, to 
another account in her name with a different bank. Halifax blocked  the transaction and froze  
Ms Hs account. On 12 April 2019,  Ms H called Halifax  to discuss  the block.  Halifax  asked a 
few questions about the transfer including the reason for it.
Ms H declined to tell Halifax the reason  for the transfer, and said she was upset that Halifax  
had asked the question.  Ms H was told to visit her local branch with identification  instead.  
But when she did so, she says she was told the branch couldnt help her as she didnt have 
a Passport.
Halifax issued a final response to Ms Hs complaint  on 12 April 2019. It rejected Ms Hs 
complaint, saying it was complying with its security procedures. Ms H remained unhappy, so 
she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, as well as a number of other issues  Ms H raised 
after Halifax  had responded. She said Halifax was entitled to block  the account and that it 
asked reasonable questions  on the phone. 
She also said Halifax shouldnt have to compensate Ms H for having to pay her bills at the 
Post Office  instead  of online and noted  that Halifax had since suggested alternative means 
by which  Ms H could identify herself, given that she didnt have a Passport. Finally,  she 
noted Ms Hs complaint  that the final response  letter had been addressed to the wrong  
name, but didnt feel any harm had been caused to Ms H.
Ms H didnt agree, so she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Having considered all of the evidence  provided  by both parties,  Im satisfied Halifax acted  in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations when  it blocked and reviewed Ms Hs account.  
And that it was entitled to review her account  under the account terms and conditions.
Ive listened to the call Ms H complains about and I didnt  hear anything  inappropriate. 
Halifax is entitled to ask questions about payments  made from its customers  accounts  and I 
found the call handler to be very respectful and courteous.
Having looked  at the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award in this 
regard against  Halifax, given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures  when  
it blocked and reviewed Ms Hs account.
Ref: DRN41711362Other matters
Ms H also complains that she was turned away by the branch when  she told them  she didnt  
have a Passport.  I note Halifax has since told Ms H she can attend a branch with alternative 
identification, and Im satisfied it has taken reasonable steps  in this regard. 
Theres no evidence to show  what happened in branch, but my view is that Halifax would  
have informed Ms H what else she could use, had she asked it. And that Ms H could have 
avoided having  to go to branch by answering  Halifaxs reasonable question. So, Im not 
persuaded Halifax is to blame for any delay  caused  in Ms H being able to access  her 
account, or any distress  and inconvenience  she experienced as a result.
Ms H also said she experienced  difficulties  in getting to branch because  of Coronavirus 
restrictions. Asking a customer to attend  a branch with identification  in circumstances such 
as these is standard practice in the banking industry. And I cant reasonably  say Halifax  
treated Ms H unfairly by asking her to do so. Ms H only had to attend branch because  she 
declined to answer a reasonable question about  her account. So, Im not persuaded Halifax  
was the cause of any distress or inconvenience  Ms H experienced in this regard.
Because Ive said that Halifax has done  nothing wrong  in blocking and reviewing Ms Hs 
account, it follows that Im not going  to ask it to compensate Ms H for any expenses  she may 
have incurred as a result of not having access to her account,  such as trips to the Post 
Office.
With regard to the wrong name being  printed  on Halifaxs final response  letter,  Im satisfied 
this was a simple error, and that Ms H suffered no harm as a result.  Ms Hs data was not 
compromised, and Ive seen nothing to suggest  any payment of compensation would be 
appropriate as a result.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171136