K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with his previous  home  insurer Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) 
because it chose not to offer renewal terms and in so doing  wrote to Mr G and told him he 
may have  to declare this to other  insurers.
background
Mr G arranged cover with L&G in 2013. In 2015,  2016 and 2018 Mr G made  three claims to 
L&G which it accepted  and settled. At renewal in 2018 L&G wrote to Mr G and told him it had 
decided, due to his claims history, to not offer him renewal terms. L&G continued and said 
Mr G may need to declare this fact to future  insurers.
Mr G was unhappy about how L&G had acted. Not on account of its decision not to renew 
his cover  he had already decided to look elsewhere. But he was upset  because  L&G had 
never warned him there was a limit to what he could claim and that having to tell other 
insurers would impact  his ability  to find cover and/or the premium hed have to pay. 
L&G noted it had reviewed Mr Gs claim history and found its action  had been  correct when 
applying its criteria for cover. It explained it doesnt  warn policyholders  about  its criteria for 
offering cover. Rather it notes in the policy booklet that it may choose to not offer renewal 
and if that is the case it will write  to the policyholder prior to the current years  policy  ending  
and that is what  it had done  here.
Our investigator felt that L&G had acted fairly, so he didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr G was unhappy. He felt wed used incorrect and unfair  terminology,  such as 
cancelled  and fraud. He felt we hadnt  really understood that his main concern was 
always that L&G hadnt told him previously  about its claim limits and that it was requiring him 
to notify other insurers of its actions. He was also concerned  that it may have breached data 
regulations by sharing his data with a third-party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G didnt cancel  Mr Gs cover, or accuse him of any mis-deed. Nor did L&G refuse  an 
application or renewal  request from Mr G for cover.  Rather L&G looked  at its criteria for 
cover which it applies  to all policyholders and prospective policyholders and decided that 
Mr Gs claims history meant it wouldnt want to offer renewal terms. In-line with the terms the 
parties agreed to, set out in the policy booklet,  L&G wrote to Mr G to tell him of its decision.
Most insurers have some  criteria which they assess policyholders  against  when deciding 
whether to offer cover for the first time and at renewal. This detail doesnt form part of the 
contract that then comes  into play between the policyholder  and the insurer.  This type of 
information is considered to be commercially sensitive (because of its nature and what it is 
used for) and so its deemed to be confidential. Each insurer  views risk differently and so its 
criteria for acceptance will be different. Also the criteria may change at intervals.  Therefore, 
insurers do not share the acceptance criteria information with policyholders. Not even when 
they make  claims which may mean  they, at that point in time, have breached  or are coming  
close to breaching the existing criteria  for cover. I cant reasonably criticise L&G for not 
having warned  Mr G because it has acted in-line  with general industry practice.
Ref: DRN41306402L&G did advise that Mr G may need to notify its decision to future insurers.  But L&G isnt 
penalising Mr G by providing this advice. It is always the case  that a policyholder has to take 
reasonable care to tell an insurer about  material facts. So if Mr G is asked a relevant 
question about  invitations to renew and answering it reasonably means  he has to divulge 
L&Gs decision to not invite renewal then that is what he should do. Even  if L&G had stayed 
silent on the topic of renewal that wouldnt  have  changed Mr Gs obligation  to answer  any 
questions asked by future  insurers about renewal invites  with reasonable care.  So I cant  
require L&G to remove this obligation  from Mr G because  it isnt one it has created. Rather it 
merely reminded  Mr G of his existing duty.
I do understand that its frustrating to use a policy in the way intended (to claim) only to be 
told that this means  youre no longer eligible for cover  and for this to seemingly impact  
cover going  forwards. But making claims usually  does have an impact  but the exact  nature  
of that will depend  upon which insurer you are covered with, and sometimes  even how long 
for. For example, several claims in the first few years  of cover may make  the policyholder a 
less attractive prospect  than one whose first few years on risk are claim free. And the 
decision on offering  cover is a purely business  one  it isnt something considered at a 
personal level taking  into account the policyholder  as an individual. That must seem harsh 
and unfair  but it means that all policyholders  that present  with the same  certain  criteria  are 
treated the same. Having  reviewed everything  Im not persuaded that L&G did anything 
wrong. Therefore,  Im not going to uphold this complaint against it.  
I see that L&G said it was sharing Mr Gs details with a third-party with a view to helping him 
find alternate cover. I can understand why L&G did this. But I can also understand why such  
contact and sharing  of data would worry Mr G. That said the issue  of data sharing is dealt 
with by the information commissioners office. Whether L&G failed Mr G in this respect  is not 
for me to decide.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Legal  & General Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4130640