K821x#15complaint
Mr G on behalf of his farming enterprise has complained that Society  of Lloyds (SOL) have 
unfairly refused  his claim for the death  of his bull under this livestock insurance policy. Mr G 
is also represented by his broker, whom I shall call Mr A. 
For the sake of simplicity, I shall just refer to Mr G instead of his farming  enterprise.
background
Mr G insured his bull under this policy, which provides cover  if he died or was stolen. Mr G 
did not take out cover for losses due to the various  diseases listed  or infertility.  The bull lost 
condition and was being treated by a vet in July 2017. Blood tests  results showed high liver 
enzymes and so the vet gave him a B12 injection  on 4 August. Unfortunately, the bull then 
dropped dead  on 23 August, unexpectedly and suddenly according  to the vet.
No post mortem  was done, as there didnt seem  to be anything  unknown  or suspicious about 
the bulls death. However, SOL said its policy was clear  that a post mortem  was required 
and so it didnt  pay Mr Gs claim. 
Mr G brought the complaint to us. Ultimately, the investigator didnt uphold it. Mr G disagreed  
so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 January 2019. I said the following:
There are several issues here,  which I shall deal with in turn.
It appears that SOL is relying on a policy, which was drafted  and issued in 2017. This 
cant be the correct  policy, as the policy which covered this bull was issued in August  
2016 and obviously  therefore any policy drafted and dated in 2017 would not have 
been available in August  2016.  
So I think Mr A is correct  that it is the policy with a date of April 2015  and the precise 
terms in that policy which  governs  this complaint and this claim.
Mr G paid a premium of £599.18  for cover for two bulls for just mortality  and theft to 
run from 28 August 2016 to 27 August 2017.  Mr G chose not to insure their death 
from any of the listed  diseases  in the policy or if they were infertile. The bull that died 
here, was listed in the schedule of having a market value of £3,600,  which is what 
Mr G claimed  from SOL. The other bull has a market value of £4,000 making  a total 
of £7,600. And together,  that was the extent of the risk, which  SOL undertook  to 
insure for the premium of £599.18.
Mr Gs claim falls under Section 1a Mortality on page 4 of this policy. This says the 
following:
The Underwriters agree  that, subject to the following terms, conditions and 
exclusions, in the event  of the death  of the ANIMAL  caused by any accident,  
injury, illness  or disease, the Underwriters will indemnify the INSURED  in 
respect of the MARKET VALUE  of the ANIMAL provided that such accident, 
injury, illness  or disease first manifests itself during  the period of insurance  
and death occurs:
Ref: DRN47256972a)During the period of insurance, or
b)For annual policies  only, within thirty (30) days after the expiry of such 
period of insurance provided that the INSURED has notified Underwriters 
in writing during  the period of insurance of such accident. injury,  illness  or 
disease, or
c)Including HUMANE DESTRUCTION of the ANIMAL in accordance with a 
certificate of a VETERTINARY SURGEON
Not exceeding  the total limits of indemnity for the ANIMAL.
The General  Exclusions  start on page  11 and I dont consider any of those 
exclusions apply in this complaint. This is because Mr G did call out his vet in 
July 2017, his vet was treating his bull and had taken blood  samples,  and had them 
analysed. I shall deal with this issue in more depth below.
The General  Conditions start on page 12 and I dont consider any of them are 
relevant to this complaint either.
On page 15, the policy  sets out the conditions to be complied  with in the event of a 
loss under sections  1 to 12. The relevant ones are as follows:
 1. It is a condition  precedent to any liability of the Underwriters that the 
INSURED shall give notice immediately in respect of any occurrence likely to 
give rise to a claim under this insurance to .
It is a condition precedent  to any liability  of the Underwriters hereunder  that: 
a)The INSURED  shall use due diligence and do and concur in doing  all 
things reasonably practicable  to avoid or diminish a loss of or damage to 
the ANIMAL herein insured at their own expense,  and
b)In the event of any illness,  disease,  lameness, injury, accident or physical  
disability whatsoever  of or to an injured ANIMAL the INSURED  shall 
immediately at his own expense employ  a VETERINARY SURGEON  and, 
if required by the Underwriters, allow removal of the ANIMAL for 
treatment, and
c)In the event of the death  or HUMANE DESTRUCTION  of an insured 
ANIMAL the INSURED shall at his own expense arrange for a POST-
MORTEM, and
in either  event, a) or b) the INSURED  shall immediately give notice to the 
person or persons  specified for the purpose in the Schedule,  who will instruct  
a VETERINARY SURGEON on the Underwriters  behalf if deemed 
necessary.
d)The Underwriters have the right to have a POST-MORTEM carried  out by 
their VETERINARY SURGEON at their own expense.
e)After receiving permission from the Underwriters, the INSURED shall 
arrange for the removal and disposal of the remains  of the ANIMAL  at his 
own expense.  The Underwriters are entitled to receive any money  
recoverable by the INSURED in excess of the removal and disposal costs 
if the remains are sold.
..
Ref: DRN472569734. The INSURED shall at all times  co-operate  with the Underwriters and their 
representatives in the investigation  and adjustment of any actual or potential 
claim by:
.
c) taking all reasonable  precautions at their own expense to prevent further 
losses
..
e) otherwise taking  all reasonable  precautions to preserve anything  which  
might prove necessary or useful by way of evidence  in connection with any 
actual or potential claim and to retain  such evidence until the Underwriters  or 
their representatives have had an opportunity of inspection.

If there is any lack of such co-operation causing  prejudice to the Underwriters, 
any claim by the INSURED will be diminished  or extinguished to the extent of 
that prejudice.
So this imposes  several  duties on both Mr G and SOL. First,  in the schedule  there  is 
no person or persons  identified  clearly  for Mr G to contact in the event of the death or 
theft of either of his bulls. The schedule is silent on that other  than identifying  the 
underwriters, the broker, Mr G and his two bulls in the usual way a schedule does 
these things. It makes no mention of which person or which  entity in particular, to 
contact in the event  of a claim or loss. Theres no telephone number, no email 
address or even  any postal address, although  that would be irrelevant  for these 
circumstances where  theres  a bull dead  in a field which obviously cant  stay there 
long enough  for the postal service to effect delivery  of the notification.
Turning now to the policy term which requires as a condition  precedent  that the 
INSURED shall give notice immediately in respect of any occurrence likely to give 
rise to a claim I consider Mr G did that as soon as he found his bull dead in the field.  
Having read the comments of the vet appointed by SOL I dont find him persuasive 
extolling at some length about  the fact that SOL needed to ensure Mr Gs bull was 
being treated  properly.  The reason for this is because the policy  doesnt have any 
term requiring Mr G to notify SOL every  time he calls out a vet to look at the insured 
animal. And if SOL wished to be so involved in the vet treatment  of the animals  it was 
insuring, before it considered any death  claim, then its policy  wording should have 
made that perfectly  clear. Further, as is often  the case, as it was here too in Mr Gs 
claim, the evidence shows the events leading up a claim werent  likely  at all until the 
unfortunate animal died as unexpectedly and suddenly as this bull died. So it is (and 
certainly was in Mr Gs case) that one only knows the events were likely to give rise 
to a claim with the benefit of hindsight. That by definition simply cant be a condition 
precedent, or at least a condition that can be relied on solely with just the benefit  of 
hindsight.
Mr G, in any event immediately  told his broker when he found his bull dead  in the 
field. I consider consequently that Mr G did ensure the event of his bulls death was 
Ref: DRN47256974properly reported  for the purposes  of this policy wording. If SOL did indeed require 
the ability to appoint its own vet immediately (which  it would have to do in instances 
of death) then the policy and its supporting documents  must identify who within SOL 
Mr G was required to contact, which consequently his broker  could have ensured. 
The policy or schedule  didnt do that. It appears to me that the schedule details, as 
prepared by SOL, simply didnt mirror  the requirements set out in the policy it was 
referring to. That cannot be used by SOL, in my view, as a reason  for declining to 
pay Mr Gs claim as that would be wholly unreasonable  and unfair.  Also, if SOL 
believes the broker should have contacted it or directed  Mr G to do so, then SOL is 
free to take this matter up with the broker. But this issue should not delay payment of 
this claim.
In any event once  SOL was notified of this claim,  with the exception of the first letter 
dated 20 September 2017, it persists in using the later of the 2017 policy for its 
reasons to refuse to pay Mr Gs claim.  It also initially failed to understand that the bull 
actually did die suddenly  and his death wasnt at all expected, and also that he 
wasnt humanely destroyed or indeed even  slaughtered. SOL was confused  at times 
as to the circumstances  of this bulls death.
So I consider in these circumstances that Mr G did all that was required by him under  
the policy in notifying his brokers the day he discovered his bull dead in the field.  The 
email back from the brokers senior claims technician that same day details the 
brokers understanding of the duties under the policy, namely that Mr G had to 
complete the claim form and get it back as quickly as possible and that crucially a 
post mortem  was only required if the cause of death is unknown.  That obviously isnt 
correct, as the policy does require a post mortem irrespective of whether or not the 
cause of death is unknown and further  permits SOL to do its own too if it wants  to. 
And this didnt happen. 
But the policy clearly  only permits SOL to diminish  or extinguish Mr Gs claim to the 
extent of any prejudice Mr Gs lack of co-operation caused it, namely here the lack of 
the post mortem.  So the onus is on SOL to prove  the lack of any post mortem 
prejudiced it and by how much. I dont consider it has done  this here for reasons, 
which I will explain further. However SOLs vet following further comments  by Mr Gs 
vet, does himself acknowledge that on some  occasions they [post mortems] are not 
going to be very informative and we have not had a problem with them  not being 
done. So this tells me claims  are routinely paid by SOL in some  circumstances when  
post mortems are not done. That appears to be quite reasonable in my view, as it 
would be quite naturally dependent on the circumstances.
So the circumstances of Mr Gs bull were that he was losing condition and as a 
result, Mr G called out his vet in July 2017.  The vet took some  blood samples and 
had them analysed,  which  showed  the bull to have  raised liver enzymes. Further 
tests were being considered by his vet and in the meantime,  the vet gave the bull a 
B12 injection to stimulate his liver.  And then, a couple of weeks  later, the bull was 
found dead unexpectedly before any further treatment was undertaken. 
SOLs vet said he needed to see from a post mortem whether anything else could 
have been done for the bull to stop it dying. But I consider  thats the wrong 
approach, as the policy doesnt require the policyholder to have SOL involved every 
time the vet is called out. I also consider some of the comments made by SOLs  vet 
on the actions  taken by Mr Gs vet show me that he hadnt read the report  of the 
Ref: DRN47256975results of the blood analysis properly. As he hadnt  noted the bull had been properly 
treated for parasites  prior to the bull getting  ill, and he hadnt noted that the bull didnt 
need housing,  as he wasnt showing signs of being  photosensitive.  
So many of the conclusions by SOLs vet are first based on the wrong policy wording  
and secondly  refer to duties of the policy holder which arent detailed in this policy  
and thirdly dont consider  the situation that this bull obviously had some issue with his 
liver and what could  have  done to cure  that. I am more persuaded by Mr Gs vet 
about the condition of the bull and the fact he said there are no specific  treatments 
for liver disease. Im also persuaded  that if the sole reason for needing a post 
mortem, which SOLs said many  times,  was to see if more could be done  then that 
is totally outside the terms of this policy  and cannot be a consideration in refusing to 
pay Mr Gs claim.
So I dont  consider SOL has shown that it was at all prejudiced by the lack of Mr G 
getting a post mortem done or the lack of its own ability to do a post mortem.  Simply 
to look at this on a reasonable basis, notwithstanding the clear term that a post 
mortem is required, Ive asked for Mr Gs vet to provide some  estimate  of the costs  of 
a doing post mortem in the field and indeed in the vets beside the knackery. Ive 
been told it would be £100 per hour in either situation and I assume  that would take 
two to three  hours  to at a probable total cost of say around £500 including  analysis  
costs since the original blood analysis  cost around  £87. All in all that would  mean for 
a premium paid of £599.18 in order to successfully claim for the market value of this 
bull being £3,600 Mr G was required to spend an additional up to £500  costs for his 
claim, which most likely  died as result  of some liver issue for which there  was no 
treatment in any event.
I think the more reasonable approach for SOL to have taken with this claim was to 
pay it without the need for a post mortem,  which obviously it does do from time to 
time when  the circumstances  demand. I certainly dont consider SOL has shown it 
suffered any prejudice  to enable it to at all diminish or extinguish  Mr Gs claim.
Mr G agreed with my provisional  decision but noted  he was claiming £3,500 for the death  of 
his bull not £3,600, which I had mentioned.  He was also claiming  the knackery cost, which 
was £76.25 (net of VAT). 
SOL said the policy I said was dated  2017  was actually dated 2016.  But it agreed to rely on 
the fact the 2015 policy governs this complaint. It said there  was a phone number on the 
policy to call in the event of a claim  but acknowledged there  was nothing in the schedule.  
It maintained it should have been informed about the ill health of the bull and the lack of 
doing so eliminated its opportunity to mitigate  a claim. It could have removed the bull for 
treatment. It believes because the bull was losing condition over the winter  and had 
intermittent diarrhoea that that was enough to consider  a claim might be made.  It maintains 
as the bull was suffering from an illness, it was clearly foreseeable that that illness might 
result in his death.
It explained initially it didnt know whether  the bull had died or was euthanized,  as it wasnt  
clear from the information it then had. It also questioned the delay between  the policyholder  
notifying the broker his bull had died and it being  told there would  be a claim.  As that delay 
made it too late for it to do anything. The necessity of a PM was commonplace to safeguard 
against moral hazard. So it maintained it was prejudiced by this lack of notification. It also 
Ref: DRN47256976upheld its vets opinion  on the blood  tests report about the lack of clarity  as to whether or not 
this bull was treated  effectively for parasites.
It maintained its decision  to refuse to pay this claim was justified and asked that I reviewed 
my provisional decision.
 my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am upholding  this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
There is no date on the policy  which SOL now says was dated 2016.  It was the broker who 
confirmed to this service, that it received  updated  policy wording in February 2017. And 
since there was no date on it, it was assumed that, as the date the policy year commenced  
was August 2016 that consequently  the older policy clearly dated 2015 applied.  That was 
clearly the brokers view and if SOL still has concerns about this, it should  direct those 
concerns directly to the broker. I note nevertheless SOL is happy to agree for the purposes 
of adjudicating  this complaint that the 2015  policy wording prevails. My duty here to 
adjudicate the complaint Mr G has regards SOLs decision to refuse  to pay his claim for the 
death of his bull. Issues concerning the lack of any communication between  SOL and the 
broker, remain a matter  for both of them to clarify  between themselves. 
The remaining  issues  for me to determine is both the lack of notification  to SOL that this bull 
was suffering a condition  where he might die and the delay in notifying SOL that he had in 
fact died.
Turning to the first, its entirely subjective as whether or not one knows an illness might result 
in death. Mr G was reliant on his vet for that information. His vet clearly didnt think  that was 
the case. Mr Gs vet is a recognised specialist vet for bulls with over 40 years experience in 
the care of bulls. He is also obviously good enough too, as he is retained by a government 
bull stud organisation for his services.  So from Mr Gs perspective  his bull was being treated 
by a competent and extensively  experienced vet, so I dont consider Mr G did anything  
wrong in relying  on the experience and care by his chosen vet. 
The policy doesnt  require  Mr G to notify SOL every time he calls out a vet. It merely requires 
him to notify it of anything that might  give rise to a claim. As the bull died suddenly and 
unexpectedly from his vets point of view, theres nothing  in my opinion that Mr G could  have 
done differently.  If SOL wants  to take over the treatment of any bull it insures when it is ill, 
then as I explained in my provisional decision,  its policy needs  to make that abundantly clear 
and it doesnt.  Its unreasonable as I also explained  in my provisional  decision to rely on 
information only available with the benefit  of hindsight. So I remain of the view Mr G was 
diligent in the care of his bull as he employed the services of a competent,  experienced vet 
to both treat his bull and advise him. Had no vet been retained  by Mr G due to his bull losing 
condition, my decision might well have  then been different. However, I dont  consider  
suffering an illness means its clearly  foreseeable that the illness  might result  in death as 
SOL said in its response to my provisional decision.  I dont consider that either reasonable or 
fair as not every illness  an animal  suffers means  it will imminently  die.
Mr G immediately notified the broker on the day his bull died. He was thereafter  reliant  on 
what the broker told him to do. And again,  I consider whatever issues SOL has with this 
remains an issue for it and the broker to sort out themselves.
Ref: DRN47256977SOLs issue  is that there was no PM to absolutely determine the cause of death,  and it was 
denied its own opportunity to do its own. I agree PMs are routinely used to prevent moral 
hazard but theres no evidence here that Mr G was anything less than honest in his claim. 
He employed the services  of his vet to care for his bull and he informed the broker  on the 
same day his bull was found  dead  unexpectedly. He merely followed the advice of what  to 
do next, that was given  by his broker, which was at odds with the policy  requirements.   
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SOLs policy however only allows SOL to diminish 
or extinguish Mr Gs claim to the extent  of any prejudice Mr Gs lack of co-operation  caused  
it, namely here the lack of the post mortem. I remain of the view that SOL hasnt  done  this 
because as Mr Gs vet said,  there are no specific treatments for liver disease  and SOL 
hasnt proffered  any evidence to the contrary. So as SOL does, according to its own vet, pay 
claims without  a PM, and so has discretion to do so, I remain  of the view the circumstances 
here, indicate there was no prejudice to SOL with the lack of a PM 
Therefore, I remain of the view that SOL should  pay Mr Gs claim in the very specific 
particulars of this claim.
my final decision
For these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Society  of Lloyds to pay Mr G claim in the amount Mr G said he claimed,  
adding interest at 8% simple per year from the date of his claim form to the date it pays  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Rona Doyle  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4725697