K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained that in 2007, National Westminster  Bank  Plc (Natwest)  mis-sold her a 
packaged bank  account called an Advantage Gold account.
Ms T paid a monthly fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that Natwest should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
(In 2015, Natwest switched many  of its customers,  including Ms T, from Advantage Gold 
accounts to Select Premium accounts.  However,  for simplicity,  I have  referred to Ms Ts 
account as an Advantage  Gold account throughout this decision). 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ts complaint and didnt think  that 
Natwest had mis-sold the Advantage  Gold account to her. 
Ms T didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Ms Ts case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Ms T and Natwest have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ms T has banked with Natwest for quite a long time.  I understand that before Natwest sold 
her the Advantage Gold account, she had held a fee-free account  and that she kept the 
Advantage Gold account itself until 2016, when she switched back to a fee-free account.  
Ms T has told us that when Natwest sold her the Advantage  Gold  account, it misled  her into 
thinking that she had to buy it in order to take out an overdraft,  which she says she now 
knows to have been wrong.  Shes  also told us that Natwest said that she would get a better 
rate of interest on an overdraft with the Advantage Gold account than with a fee-free 
account; and that Natwest  didnt tell her that the Advantage  Gold account was something  
(she) had to pay for, but led her to think it was free. 
Some of Ms Ts comments seem to be slightly contradictory. For example, Im not sure if she 
means that Natwest told her the only way to get an overdraft was to buy the Advantage Gold 
account, or that if she bought it, she would  get a better  rate of interest than with a fee-free 
account. However, given  the amount of time that has passed,  Im not surprised by this, as it 
can be difficult to remember details over such long periods. 
On our questionnaire,  Ms T said that Natwest recommended the account to her during  a 
meeting with one of its representative, whereas Natwest has said that it sold the account to 
Ms T on a non-advised or information-only  basis. At that time, Natwest  often sold packaged 
bank accounts  on this basis, where  it would tell customers about the account, but wouldnt 
make a personal recommendation. I havent seen anything to make me think that it did make 
Ref: DRN40563322a recommendation  to Ms T, so I have assessed her complaint as a non-advised sale.  This 
meant that Natwest had to tell Ms T about  the account clearly  and fairly and give her a 
choice about buying it, but didnt have to check that the account  was right for her personal 
circumstances.
Its clear from Ms Ts comments that she wanted an account which  would allow her to use an 
overdraft. In 2007, many fee-free accounts, including those provided by Natwest, provided 
overdrafts. However, Natwest charged  customers with Advantage Gold  accounts less for 
overdrafts than it charged its customers with fee-free accounts. So it seems highly likely to 
me that Natwest would  have discussed  this with Ms T during the meeting. But it would have 
been giving  her factual information  about the account, not misleading her.
Of course,  Natwest  shouldnt have told Ms T that buying an Advantage Gold account was 
the only way she could get an overdraft,  but given that she already had a fee-free account  
which probably allowed  her an overdraft, I doubt that it did this. I think its more likely that 
Natwest told her that an overdraft could cost less with an Advantage Gold  account  than with 
a fee-free account. 
In 2007, other potential  benefits of the Advantage Gold account included travel  insurance, 
mobile phone insurance,  accidental  death insurance  and identity theft insurance. I think its 
highly likely  that Natwest told Ms T about  some of these benefits  during the meeting. After  
all, it was trying to sell the account  to Ms T and it would have been in its own interests to tell 
her what  it could provide.  Indeed, Natwest has sent us some information from its records  
which shows that Ms T went on to register for some of the potential benefits,  so Im satisfied 
that she knew about them.
Ms T may not have wanted  or needed  all the potential benefits that came with the account,  
(for example, she doesnt seem to have needed the travel insurance) but packaged bank 
accounts cant usually  be tailored for individual customers, so this doesnt  mean  that 
Natwest was wrong  to sell the account to Ms T.
I also think its unlikely that Natwest told Ms T that she could  have all the potential  benefits of 
the Advantage Gold account for free. It had already provided her with a fee-free bank 
account which didnt  have such benefits  and it would have been difficult for it to justify  why it 
was now offering a lot more for free. And the monthly charges for the Advantaged Gold  
account would appear on Ms Ts statements, so I dont think that Natwest  was trying to hide 
them from her. I think its more likely that Natwest told Ms T about  the charges  and the 
potential benefits  of the Advantage  Gold account,  and that she chose to buy it. 
So, although  I accept  that Natwest may not have  done  everything right in the way it sold the 
Advantage Gold account to Ms T, I dont think it misled her about the overdraft or tried to 
hide the charges from her. I also think it probably  told her about  the potential  benefits of the 
account and gave her a choice to buy it or keep her existing account. I dont think  Natwest 
mis-sold the Advantage  Gold  account  to Ms T. 
Ref: DRN40563323my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ts complaint  about National 
Westminster Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give her any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4056332