K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that Aioi Nissay  Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE (Aioi) has 
unfairly declined  a claim under his motor insurance  policy. It also scrapped the car when it 
shouldnt have and hasnt given a fair salvage value.  In addition to this Mr Fs premium 
increased when  he changed the address on the policy.
For the purpose of this decision  any mention  of Aioi will include all representatives working 
on its behalf.
 
background
Mr F was involved in a car accident on 13 August 2017 and the next day he called Aioi to 
make a claim.
Mr F explained he had been out with friends  and as he was driving, he saw an obstruction in 
the road. This caused  him to swerve and hit the curb which caused the car to flip over.  As it 
was his grandfathers car Mr F panicked and left the scene. Mr Fs grandfather had been 
contacted by the police and they were  going to arrange  an interview with Mr F. At this point 
the interview had not been  arranged.
Given the circumstances of the accident  Aioi made an assumption that the car would be 
considered a write off and arranged for it to be collected from the police by its salvage 
agent.
Aioi said it asked during  this call if Mr F lived with his grandfather. Mr F said he was always 
there but didnt confirm  if it was his permanent residence.
Mr Fs grandfather  called  Aioi several days later and gave a different address for Mr F than 
that recorded on the insurance policy. He went on to say that the new address was only 
effective from that day as Mr F had separated from his partner and as a result  had moved 
home.
Due to the type of policy Mr F had a telematics  box that records  data about  the car was fitted 
to it. This showed the car had been kept at the address given by Mr Fs grandfather for most  
of the time it had been insured. As a result of this and Mr Fs grandfather being the 
registered keeper  of the car Mr Fs claim was placed  on hold while it asked for an 
explanation of the conflicting information. A deadline of 30 August 2017 was given for the 
information to be provided.
During this time Aioi sent Mr F a letter confirming the car had been  written off and the 
valuation that had been placed on it. Mr F called Aioi to discuss the settlement which was 
explained to him along  with a further explanation  that the claim was on hold waiting for his 
explanation of the contradicting information.
As no response was provided from Mr F by the deadline Aioi sent him a letter informing him 
his policy  would be cancelled, giving him seven  days notice.
Mr F called Aioi within the seven days and agreed  to an increased  premium based on the 
corrected address, which he has also raised concerns about being unfair. On 
25 September 2017 Aioi agreed a settlement figure  of £11,235 with him.
Ref: DRN47128022On the same  day another department at Aioi was looking at a personal injury claim that had 
been made by one of the passengers in the car at the time. The Aioi representative called 
Mr F for more information.
During this call it came to light that although Mr F had left the scene of the accident  one of 
the passengers  had stayed with the car and was arrested.  As this was new information that 
Aioi thought could  have  been an important factor in its investigation of the claim, the claim 
was again placed on hold and a police report was requested.
The police report wasnt received until 14 March 2018. The report  confirmed Mr F had been 
interviewed by them  on 13 October 2017. It also explained that there was CCTV that showed 
Mr F was seen  to be travelling over the speed limit, driving dangerously and eventually  
crashed the car. The report also confirmed Mr F had attended court  on 2 January 2018 
where he was convicted of dangerous driving, given a 12 month  suspended  sentence  and 
banned from driving for 18 months.
Aioi then arranged  for Mr F to be interviewed  as part of its investigation  and decided  to 
cancel the claim on the basis  that Mr F had made a false statement in relation  to the 
accident.
Mr F has explained  that he thinks this decision is unfair and that his claim should not have  
been declined.  He also doesnt think the car should  have been  scrapped as he didnt give his 
permission and his grandfather could have  used the parts for another  car. Specifically, the 
gearbox could  have been used in another car his grandfather had. 
Aioi spoke to the salvage agent that considered the damage to the car based  on photos and 
was of the opinion these  parts couldnt  have been reused.
Our investigator considered Mr Fs complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. 
Although he thought the decision to decline Mr Fs claim  and increase his premium was fair 
he didnt think Aioi had acted fairly by scrapping the car and suggested  Aioi should pay Mr F 
£200 compensation in recognition of this.
Both Mr F and Aioi disagreed with the investigator. Mr F thought the amount was too low and 
Aioi explained  that had Mr F been  given the option  to retain  the car he wouldnt have been 
able to use the parts and would have  incurred expenses in having  the car delivered back  to 
him.
As neither side agreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs complaint covers  three main areas. His claim being declined, the insured car being  
scrapped, and his premium increasing  when  he corrected  his address details. I will look at 
each of these  areas  in turn.
claim declined  
Ref: DRN47128023I have thought about whether Aioi made  this decision fairly, and in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Fs policy.
When Aioi decided to decline Mr Fs claim it said that the information recorded  on the 
telematics box showed his account of the accident  to be false. There  were also many  
inconsistencies between  his account and that gathered throughout its investigation.
Aioi also pointed to the following section of Mr Fs policy and said he made  a false  
statement.
Misrepresentation and non-disclosure If you have made a false statement,  
misrepresentation or have withheld information  when providing  the information  which  is 
detailed in your Statement of Fact,  Schedule or Certificate of Motor Insurance,  the insurer 
may not make a payment  in respect of a claim and your policy  may be cancelled with no 
return of premium.
Aioi have explained that the address on Mr Fs policy was incorrect  and that data from the 
telematics box supported  that the insured car was being kept consistently at an address 
other than that stated  on his policy.
Mr Fs version  of the accident circumstances are also very different  to that documented in 
the police  statement.  As the circumstances in the police  statement are supported  by 
evidence which includes witnesses, CCTV, and telematics  evidence  I think Aioi acted fairly 
when it relied on the differing evidence to say Mr F gave a false  statement and withheld 
important information.
Mr F has told us that he accepted the offer made by Aioi in settlement of his car and so it 
should be binding  on it. But, with the above  in mind I think  Aioi acted fairly when it decided  to 
decline Mr Fs claim, and I dont think Mr F has shown the loss happened in a way that is 
covered by the policy.
premium increase
Mr Fs premium was increased when he updated  his address.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide,
and I dont have  the power to tell Aioi what its insurance should cost.  I would  be, in
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. 
So I cant say the cost of Mr Fs policy is too high, he should have been charged  less for the
policy or that he should be charged less in the future. I can only look at whether Aioi has 
treated Mr F in the same  way it would  have treated any other  customer  in the same position.
Aioi has sent us detailed information on how it priced Mr Fs policy  using its usual criteria for 
pricing insurance policies.  Even though the two address  were  relatively  close together, from 
the information Aioi sent us I am persuaded it has treated Mr F in the same way it would 
have treated anyone  else in the same position.
I dont think Aioi has treated Mr F unfairly  by increasing the premium.
scrapping of insured car
Ref: DRN47128024Although Mr F didnt express  much interest  in retaining the car before his claim was 
declined, I think this was based on him receiving the offer Aioi had made to him in settlement 
of the claim. When Aioi explained it wouldnt be paying the settlement  Mr F clearly wanted  
the option to keep the car.
I have thought about this and the impact Aiois decision  to scrap Mr Fs car had on him. 
Mr Fs car was declared a category B write off which means it could not be repaired and put 
back on the road. Considering the circumstances  of the accident and the condition of the car 
afterwards this is not surprising.
In response to Mr Fs comments that the cars parts could have been salvaged  and reused,  
specifically the gear box, Aioi have spoken  to the salvage company who confirmed  the 
gearbox was not in a salvageable condition. Aioi has also confirmed there  would have been 
additional costs  involved in recovering the car to Mr F which he would have been 
responsible for.
I havent seen  enough to suggest Mr F would have been able to salvage  parts  from the car 
that could be safely reused  so although Aioi shouldnt  have arranged for the car to be 
scrapped I dont think Mr F has lost out financially, as it sent Mr F the salvage value.
As Mr Fs claim was declined the car was not Aiois property, so it shouldnt have disposed  
of it. I dont think Mr F expected this, and it caused  him some  upset. So, I think Aioi should 
compensate him for this, and the £200 recommended by the investigator is fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  
SE to pay Mr £200  compensation for the upset it caused when scrapping the insured car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712802