K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made mistakes during a review  
and did not pay the compensation offered.
background
HSBC was in contact with A about a safeguarding  review. HSBC wanted up to date 
information about As ownership and management  structure. It accepted that it did not 
communicate its requirements well. It said it would pay A £250 in compensation.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that HSBC  had in 
fact paid A £450  in compensation  with £200 of that paid in error  and HSBC  was not 
seeking to reclaim this. He said that HSBC  was entitled to ask for the information  about A. 
But that its conduct of the review could have been better. He thought that the compensation 
was reasonable.
A did not agree. It said that this service was biased and that it did not expect a fair review.  A 
would now be able to take HSBC to court. A had also now been  told that HSBC wanted to 
close its account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its reasonable for HSBC to want up to date information about  A to meet legal and regulatory 
requirements. And its also entitled  to carry out a review  to decide whether it wants  to 
provide A with banking services or not. Thats a commercial  decision and one in which  this 
service would not generally interfere with.
I understand the concerns  raised  by A about  the way the process was carried out. In a first 
final response to A dated 7 July 2018  HSBC accepted that its emails  about the requirements 
were unclear  and that it could have better explained  what it wanted. As far as A is concerned 
things didnt improve after that. It received a letter from HSBC on 22 August 2018 saying that 
its account would be closing on 21 September 2018.  The reason given was that A had not 
provided all the information  that had been  asked  for.
A thought that it had provided  this and so complained. I note that the letter from HSBC of 22 
August 2018 said that A should contact HSBC to discuss the missing information.  And that 
this might lead to a review  of the decision or an extension of the period of notice for closure.  
The complaint letter from A to HSBC on 8 September 2018  seemed to state that it believed 
the closure was inevitable. And it provided details of where to send the closing balance 
which was repeated in a form on 20 October 2018. A then decided  that it wanted  the account  
to remain open.  Its provided a letter  from HSBC  dated 5 November 2018 stating that this 
would happen  and any restrictions lifted.  By that point HSBC  said that all the information 
required had been received and the safeguard review had been submitted and was then 
being reviewed.  HSBC  sent a further  final response  letter on 20 December 2018 saying that 
it had nothing else to add on this complaint.
There is no doubt that A found this an onerous  process as it says. HSBC has apologised for 
poor communication. Ive no reason to doubt  that A thought it had provided what was 
Ref: DRN40165642required. But it was for HSBC to decide  whether what it had was sufficient. Its clear that 
when A had satisfied  those requirements the decision  to close the account  was reversed 
during the period of an ongoing review.
I consider A has been caused  inconvenience  by the poor communication  from HSBC. And I 
think that extended beyond July 2018. However, HSBC told A that it needed  more  
information and asked it to get in contact about  this. So Im not going to making  an award 
beyond that of compensation for inconvenience. 
HSBC has paid A more  than it intended to. But I think  the amount it has paid fairly reflects  
the full inconvenience caused  to A. So for this reason  I wont  be asking it to do anything  
more. If A does not accept my decision then it remains free to take legal action subject to 
relevant time limits as its said it wants to.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that HSBC  UK Bank Plc need 
take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4016564