K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about a hire agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCIFS).
background 
In October  2016 Mr W was supplied with a Zoe electric car battery under a hire agreement.  
The duration of the agreement  was 24 months with a monthly  payment of £87.00.  The total 
mileage allowance  was 18,000 over the term.
In April 2018 Mr W asked RCIFS to reduce his total mileage allowance  to 15,000. He wanted 
his monthly payments based on the lower mileage backdated to the start of the agreement. 
Mr W wanted to continue  his contract  on a monthly rolling basis after the 24 month term had 
expired rather than enter into a further contract  with a minimum period of 12 months.
RCIFS advised Mr W that it would reduce his mileage to 15,000  but that this couldnt  be 
backdated to the start of the agreement.  It also advised Mr W that he would need to enter  
into a new contract for a 12 month  period of hire.
Mr W complained.  He said his existing contract  provided for continuance on a rolling one 
month basis at the end of the minimum period. He didnt  accept that he should have to enter 
into a new contract as a result of amending the mileage. Mr W asked RCIFS to amend  the 
mileage allowance  and confirm that the existing contact would continue on a rolling one 
month basis at the end of the 24 month period.
RCIFS said that an amendment to the mileage  would require a modified agreement  which  
would be of 12 months duration. It offered to backdate  the reduced annual  mileage to the 
date of Mr Ws request (April 2018) and said if Mr W sold the car midway through  the 12 
month term it wouldnt look to charge him an early  termination fee.
Mr W remained unhappy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it was the policy  of RCIFS to renew on 
a 12 month  minimum term and that this service wasnt  able to ask RCIFS to alter its policy. 
The investigator said that RCIFSs offer to refund Mr W £54 together  with £50 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said RCIFSs policy was irrelevant because the existing contract 
provided that the agreement would automatically continue  on a monthly  rolling basis  after 
the minimum period  until either party terminated the hire of the battery by giving one months 
notice. Mr W said he didnt want  and wasnt obliged to accept  a contract  renewal.  He 
said all he wanted to do was amend  the existing contract to reflect the lower mileage. Mr W 
also said the agreement  didnt adequately define  how the amount payable under the 
contract would  be calculated as a result  of amending the mileage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ive looked at the hire agreement including the terms and conditions. The terms and 
conditions say, at clause 5.1 (Modifications  to the Agreement)  that at any time prior to the 
last 3 months of the minimum period, the hirer can ask RCIFS to vary the maximum 
Ref: DRN47392802contractual mileage. Varying the contractual mileage is dealt with under the heading  
Modifications to the Agreement so Im satisfied that a request to amend the mileage is a 
request to modify the agreement.
Clause 5.2 sets out what will happen if RCIFS agree to vary the mileage. It says:
If we agree to the modifications, we will issue  an agreement modifying this Agreement  
which will be binding  on you and us once signed.  This will also show any changes  to your 
Rentals.
Mr W has signed the agreement and is therefore  bound by the terms and conditions 
including clauses 5.1 and 5.2.
Having considered clause 5 in its entirety, Im satisfied  that RCIFS has acted in accordance 
with the terms of the contract by issuing  a new agreement showing  the changes  to the 
mileage and the reduced rentals.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr W doesnt want a new agreement, Im satisfied that this is a 
contractual consequence of a modification  to the existing agreement.
Ive thought about Mr Ws point that the existing agreement provides for it to automatically 
continue on a monthly rolling  basis at the end of the minimum term. I agree that, if no 
modifications were requested, this would be the position. But in this case, Mr W requested a 
modification which brought clause 5 into play. I think that clauses 2 and 5 are mutually  
exclusive. If the existing agreement is modified under clause 5, then clause 2 no longer has 
effect because  any modification results  in a new agreement.  
I cant say that Mr W has been disadvantaged  by being asked to enter into a new 
agreement. RCIFS  has said that no early  termination  fee would be payable in the event that 
Mr W sold the car before the end of the (12 month) minimum  term. So this puts Mr W in the 
same position as he would be under the existing agreement.
Mr W has asked  how the rentals  would be calculated under  the agreement  as a result  of 
amending the mileage. The (amended) rental  amount isnt something  which  Mr W has 
complained about so if Mr W thinks it has been calculated incorrectly  this is something which 
would need to be raised with RCIFS as a separate complaint  before this service could 
investigate. To the extent that Mr W feels that the wording of the agreement  regarding how 
the amounts payable  are calculated as a result of amending the mileage is unsatisfactory,  
this isnt something I am able to comment on. I can only look at whether RCIFS has acted in 
accordance with the terms  of the contract.
Taking all of the circumstances of this complaint into account Im unable  to conclude that 
RCIFS has done anything  wrong. The terms and conditions of the agreement say that any 
modifications will result in a new agreement being  issued. 
I acknowledge that there  was some delay in RCIFS dealing with Mr Ws complaint. In this 
respect, I think  the offer to refund £54 and pay compensation of £50 is fair so I wont  be 
asking RCIFS to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN47392803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4739280