K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of a single premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out with a £15,000  personal loan in 2002. The loan was intended to run for 84 
months.
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  PPI with the loan.
background
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs W a single premium PPI policy  alongside their joint loan. It 
offered protection against Mr W losing his job or being unable  to work. Mrs W wasnt 
covered.
The policy cost £2,926 and Mr and Mrs W had to pay the full cost of the PPI up front.  They 
also borrowed the money to pay for the PPI premium from Nationwide.  
Our adjudicator recommended  we shouldnt  uphold this complaint but Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
These events obviously  took place a long time ago and so I can understand how difficult it 
might be for Mr and Mrs W to remember exactly what  happened.  They themselves 
acknowledge they dont have a specific recollection  of what took place.
However, my experience  of these types of loan is that they were first discussed over the 
phone or at a branch, with a credit agreement then sent out or given to the consumer(s), 
based on that discussion. The consumer  was invited to check  and sign the agreement and 
return it to Nationwide. 
Nationwide says this was a telephone sale.
Ive looked carefully  at the original credit  agreement in this case. In relation to the PPI, it has 
Optional Credit Insurance clearly  written on it. So I think Mr and Mrs W would have been 
able to understand the PPI wasnt something they needed to buy if they didnt want  to. Mr 
and Mrs W both signed the agreement so I think they consented to the PPI.
Nationwide had a responsibility to give Mr and Mrs W enough  information  so they could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to buy PPI cover  with their loan. But this 
wasnt an advised sale so it was for Mr and Mrs W to decide for themselves what they 
wanted to do. And overall, I think Nationwide  provided enough information. 
I say this because  the amount (including interest) of both the loan and PPI part of the loan 
was set out on the agreement, as was the amount theyd have to pay each  month. In my 
Ref: DRN46869092view, this was done  prominently.  The agreement also showed who was covered and for 
what. So I think Mr and Mrs W had enough information to decide what they wanted  to do.
Even if I accept that Nationwide  could have probably  set things out more clearly, I dont think  
this would have  mattered to whether or not Mr and Mrs W wouldve still bought the policy. 
This is because the evidence  points to them wanting the cover.  Mr W also appears to have 
been eligible for the PPI and I dont think that hed have been  caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. In the event of a successful claim for accident / 
sickness, the policy could  have met the loan repayments until the loan was repaid. And if 
hed become unemployed, he could have claimed for up to 12 months.  So even though  I can 
see Mr W had some protection from sickness through his job, I think  all these things show 
the cover  was of use. The cover was designed  to help in time of unforeseen financial 
difficulties and it covered  a lengthy  time period.
In summary,  I think the evidence shows Mr and Mrs W agreed  to have this PPI policy  when 
they were asking for the loan. I think the way the cover was then described for them and how 
the costs were disclosed wouldve allowed them to see they had options and what  they were 
required to pay. The PPI policy ran for the same  length of time as the loan and if cashed in 
early, a proportionate  refund was applied.  I note this did eventually  happen in this case.
Im afraid I dont think this PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint or direct  Nationwide  
Building Society to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686909