K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject it 
and end the agreement.
background
Mr H says he took delivery of the new vehicle in late April 2018. But he says he found there 
was a fault with the air-conditioning system which  he says he reported. He took the car in for 
repairs. After repairs  had been completed he says the next day he noticed the air- 
conditioning was still not working. The car was taken in for examination a few days  later and 
he says he was told the dashboard would need to be removed as the fault appeared to be 
with the evaporator. He says he sent an email the same day asking to reject  the vehicle. 
Mr H says the dealership  nonetheless went ahead with the repairs  and returned the car to 
him. He says when  he complained to BMW it offered two monthly repayments as a gesture 
of goodwill  - but wouldnt accept the vehicle should be rejected.
BMW told us no fault had been established  when Mr H had first taken the vehicle  in for 
investigation. And when the fault with the air conditioning had been identified  it had been 
repaired under  warranty at no cost to Mr H. It didnt  think he should be allowed to reject the 
vehicle. It said it had offered him two monthly  payments, over £700, as gesture of goodwill.
The investigator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She found Mr H had 
reported a fault with the air conditioning within a month of acquiring the car. This had been 
repaired by re-gassing.  However, within a few days the issue  reoccurred  and required the 
evaporator to be replaced which necessitated the dashboard being removed. Mr H had 
asked to reject the vehicle  at this stage rather than accept such a major repair.  She thought 
the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. And that Mr H should be 
able to reject  the vehicle  and end the agreement.
BMW didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to make  the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr H being  extremely disappointed  that a new vehicle would encounter  
problems within such a short time of supply. And as the supplier of both vehicle and finance 
under the agreement BMW is responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality  at the 
time of supply. Satisfactory quality  includes  freedom from minor defects and durability.
The evidence shows Mr H took the vehicle in for repairs  - and the issue  identified was 
rectified by the re-gassing of the air conditioning system. But this doesnt appear  to have 
solved the problem as another fault arose.  And it became apparent  a major repair  - involving 
the removal of the dashboard  was required. 
Ref: DRN46296142As its a new vehicle I dont consider these sorts of issues should be arising  if a vehicle is of 
satisfactory quality. And so I consider its fair reasonable to allow Mr H to end the agreement  
and return the vehicle. He made it clear he wanted to reject the vehicle but the dealer went  
ahead with the repairs. Even these dont seem to have been entirely completed entirely 
successfully. Mr H has supplied photographic evidence which seems to show the dashboard 
has not been re-fitted correctly after the second repair.
In summary,  as I dont  think  the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied,  I think  Mr 
H should be entitled to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement. Im upholding his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  Im ordering 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  to:
1.Arrange for collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr H.
2.Allow Mr H to end the agreement with no further payments due from date of 
collection.
3.Refund the deposit of £13,000.  Simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year should be 
added from date of payment  to date of settlement.
4.Refund one monthly  payment (£362.80) to reflect impaired use.
5.Arrange to have  any record  of the agreement removed from Mr Hs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4629614