K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited acted  unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under  an insurance policy. He wants  the full cost 
of repair  paid by DAS.
background
Mr D had an insurance policy with DAS, which covered claims made in respect of the roof of 
his property (amongst  other items). The policy said that it would carry out permanent repairs 
if there were  issues with the tiles, water ingress from ridge tiles that need repointing, or with 
glass roofs  that were  part of a conservatory.  The policy didnt cover normal  maintenance.
In April 2018, Mr D reported  that the roof was leaking and a contractor attended the property. 
It said that the boiler flue had been  incorrectly installed, which caused the leak. Mr D said 
that a leak had happened in October 2017 in the same  place  and the repair carried out 
under the insurance must have failed. DAS rejected his claim.
DAS said that the repair  carried out in October 2017  had been  temporary  (and there was 
evidence of earlier repairs being carried out according to its contractor), and its contractor  
advised that this was a wear and tear issue. DAS noted that the policy didnt cover 
maintenance or damage caused  by this issue, which was why it rejected Mr Ds claim.
Mr D complained to us, pointing out that the boiler  and roof had been inspected more  than 
once previously and that there had never been any mention before of poor installation of the 
flue. He said he hadnt been  told that the 2017 repair  was temporary and that the terms and 
conditions of the policy required that a permanent repair was carried out. DAS said that it 
shouldnt have covered the 2017  repair as it wasnt required under the policy  as the work 
was caused by wear  and tear; it confirmed  that the repair was temporary.
The adjudicators view was that DAS was at fault.  He pointed out that DAS chose to 
undertake the work in 2017 and didnt tell Mr D that this had been done as a gesture of 
goodwill, not under  the terms and conditions of the policy (which wouldve allowed it to 
exclude the work). The adjudicator also noted that there was no evidence  Mr D had been 
told that the 2017 repair was temporary, and said it appeared Mr D had been led to believe 
the repair was permanent.  This meant Mr D was denied  the chance  to properly fix the issue, 
which the adjudicator said wasnt fair. He said DAS should pay the costs of the 2018  leak 
repair and for any connected damage caused  by the later leak (together  with 8% simple  
interest a year if Mr D has paid these costs,  subject to evidence), and £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
DAS disagreed. It said that the work was excluded under the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN45306502The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  I accept that under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, the work  caused by issues with a boiler  flue arent 
covered (because  it isnt to do with the tiles, ridge  or glass roof, and because it appears  to 
be more likely than not to be due to wear  and tear from the account  of the contractor and 
Mr D  a new installation  wasnt required to deal with the problem). 
But this service can depart from the terms and conditions if it considers it fair and reasonable 
to do so. In all the circumstances of the case, I think its fair and reasonable to go beyond the 
scope of the policy due to the actions of DAS. In 2017, it shouldve excluded  the repair work 
required but chose  instead to carry out a temporary repair. But DAS didnt  tell Mr D that 
technically this work  wasnt required under  the policy and it was choosing to do it anyway. 
Critically, theres no evidence at all that Mr D was told the repair was temporary; it was 
reasonable for Mr D to believe the repair was permanent as thats  what  the policy  promised 
and he hadnt  been told the work  hadnt  been done under the policy. This wasnt fair or 
reasonable in my view.
DAS actions meant Mr D didnt know he had to take action to properly fix the issue with the 
flue or that the issue wasnt covered  under the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr D paid 
to have the permanent repair carried out (which he says didnt involve re-installing the flue). I 
think the fair and reasonable  outcome is that DAS pays for the costs of repairing the 2018  
leak (including the costs  of a permanent repair), subject to Mr D providing evidence  of those 
costs. This is because DAS led Mr D to believe this issue was covered by the policy in 2017 
and didnt tell him the repair was temporary.  And as Mr D has paid the repair  costs, its fair 
and reasonable for interest to be paid at a rate of 8% a year simple  interest  from the date 
Mr D paid his contractor  to the date of refund.
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset. Money  never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset suffered, but I note Mr D feels £100  is fair and 
reasonable. I agree. He has been put to inconvenience and his trust in DAS has been  
affected. I think £100 compensation fairly and reasonably reflects  this and the frustration 
Mr D has felt in trying  to establish the position, discovering that the 2017 repair  was only 
temporary and his boiler breaking down as a result.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  DAS Legal Expenses Insurance  Company 
Limited must  pay Mr D the costs  of repairing the 2018 leak in the roof (subject  to receipt  of 
evidence of payment  of such  costs)  with interest as outlined above, and £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused by its failings. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before [ ] October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4530650