K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One), offered her following a complaint  about the level of commission it received 
on a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  The PPI was attached to Mrs Hs credit 
card which was taken out in 1999.
Mrs H has been represented throughout her complaint.
background
Mrs H made  a complaint  to Capital One about the sale of the PPI in 2013. Capital One 
considered it hadnt mis-sold the PPI and the complaint was referred to our Service.
The mis-sale was looked into by our Service under a different reference number. An 
ombudsman looked  into the complaint and a final decision was issued in 2014.  The 
ombudsman considered that the PPI policy hadnt  been mis-sold.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
In October  2017, Mrs H, through her representative  complained about the level of 
commission Capital One received on her PPI policy.
In November 2017, Capital One wrote out to Mrs H and it offered to pay compensation for 
the level of commission  and profit share  it received and didnt disclose which had created  an 
unfair relationship. It offered to pay Mrs H £2,887.88 in compensation.
Unhappy, Mrs H brought her complaint to out Service.  Mrs H, through  her representative 
says that the non-disclosure of commission which Capital One admits caused an unfair 
relationship, means that the Mrs H wasnt given the correct information at the point of sale 
and Mrs H wouldnt have taken out PPI had she been aware of the correct information.  
Mrs Hs representative says that this should be treated as new information and Mrs Hs 
complaint about  the sale should be reinvestigated, and Mrs H should get back  all the 
premiums she paid.     
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and thought  Capital One had acted fairly.
As Mrs H and her representative disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49981422First, I would like to explain to Mrs H and her representative what  I can and cant  look at 
within this decision.  
Mrs H had the complaint  about the mis-sale of the PPI looked into by our Service  in 2014  
under a different reference number  and a final decision was issued. A final decision  is the 
last stage in our process. That complaint  cant be re-opened, re-investigated or overturned 
by any other  ombudsman within our Service unless material, new information  comes to light 
that would  change the outcome.
I understand that Mrs Hs representative feels that information about the level of commission 
Capital One received is new information  and so warrants the mis-sale to be re-investigated. 
But I dont think it does.
Ill explain  why I consider Capital One has acted fairly in its offer of compensation to Mrs H 
for the unfair  level of commission it received.
As explained above, the FCA provided guidance and rules on how businesses  should deal 
with complaints about the sale of PPI. It referred  to a two-step approach.  
The first step was that a business should look to see whether  a policy  was mis-sold and 
whether the consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy. 
The second  was that if a policy wasnt mis-sold, did the level of undisclosed  commission 
(and profit share) received by the lender create  an unfair relationship between the consumer 
and the lender.
what does this mean for  Mrs H?
Mrs H complained about the sale of her PPI in 2013.  Capital One investigated this and 
considered that the policy wasnt mis-sold   our ombudsman agreed  with this. So in light of 
the above, Capital One, in looking at the sale of the PPI has considered  the first step as set 
out in the FCAs  approach. 
After the FCA issued the rules and guidance  in 2017, Mrs H complained about the level of 
commission Capital One received. Capital  One went on to consider level of undisclosed 
commission (and profit share)  it received and looked  to see if an unfair relationship  was 
created. This is the second  step of the FCAs approach. 
Capital One said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs H paid each month  for 
the time the commission  and profit share  it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It 
also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mrs H for any time she was out of 
pocket.  
Ref: DRN49981423So, in this case Capital  One has made Mrs H an offer of compensation in relation to the level 
of commission it received that is in-line  with the methods set out by the FCA.
And overall,  Capital One has done what the rules it must follow  tell it to do. It looked at 
whether it considered the PPI was mis-sold,  and then looked at the level of commission  it 
received and subsequently offered compensation to correct the unfair  relationship that was 
created.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Hs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Capital  One should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. 
But I dont think there is. 
In this case I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling Capital  One to do anything more.   
what the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Mrs H any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs H the difference 
between what Mrs H owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mrs H 
8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
Capital One (Europe) plc has to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so it 
doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4998142