K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in December 2019 explaining why I didnt  intend  
to uphold Ms Cs complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of 
my final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments and/or evidence  they would 
like me to consider.  However, neither party has provided me with anything  further to 
consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
As I havent  received anything further  from Ms C or B&B, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings as set out in my provisional decision.  It follows that I dont think B&B mis-sold Ms C 
PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint against  Bradford & Bingley Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40156672copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms C complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold her a monthly premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms C took out a mortgage with B&B in 1989. She was sold a PPI policy at the same time in 
connection with this mortgage.  
At the time of the sale, this policy cost £3.50 and would have provided  a monthly benefit of £100 for 
the remaining term of the mortgage if Ms C was off work sick. Ms C did not have unemployment cover 
at this stage.
In May 1996  unemployment cover was added. The cost of the policy increased  to £6.50  but the 
monthly benefit of the policy remained at £100. At this stage the monthly  benefit would have  paid out 
for up to 12 months  per claim if Ms C was off work  sick or lost her job.
In November 1996 Ms C took out a further advance, it appears the cost and benefit of the policy  
remained the same.
In June 1999  the cost of the policy increased  to £8.27 and the benefit increased to £126. 
Our adjudicator considered  this complaint  and didnt  think that the policy was mis-sold  in 1989. But 
she thought that the amendment which she says took place in November  1996 with the further 
advance meant that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. This is because  by this time Ms C had 
developed a medical condition. And our adjudicator thought that this would  be regarded as a pre-
existing medical condition when the policy  was amended.  Our adjudicator thought  that B&B hadnt 
made it clear to Ms C that she wouldnt  be covered  under the policy  for this condition.
B&B didnt agree  with our adjudicator because they said that the amendment  that took place in 
November 1996 was the addition of unemployment cover. This they say wouldnt  have affected Ms 
Cs ability  to make a claim for her medical condition as she had been covered  for accident and 
sickness from the start of the policy  in 1989 and this condition arose  after this time (so effectively  this 
would not have been a pre-existing medical condition).  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Having done that, Im intending not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. I will go on to explain why. 
1989 sale
First, Ive considered whether Ms C was eligible for the PPI. Based  on her age and employment at the 
time of the sale, Im satisfied  that she was eligible.
B&B had to make it clear  to Ms C that the PPI was optional and needed  Ms Cs consent before it 
could be applied to the account. Ms C says the policy was added without  her knowledge. She says 
had she known about it, she would have refused it as she had sufficient  existing cover in place.
Ref: DRN40156673I cant  know  for sure what happened  during the sale and so Ive thought about  what  Ms C and B&B 
have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more 
likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application form.  This document  has a section for 
PPI. This presented  Ms C with options as to the level of PPI cover and I can see that there was also a 
box to refuse  PPI. Ms C chose to take accident and sickness cover only.  She could equally have 
refused cover altogether. By signing the form, Ms C confirmed the selection. 
So, while I appreciate what Ms C has told us, based on what  Ive seen, I cant  say that its more likely 
that the PPI was added without Ms Cs knowledge. I think its more likely that  PPI  was presented as 
optional and that Ms C chose to take it out and thats why it was applied to her account. 
B&B say they didnt advise  Ms C to take PPI. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest otherwise. 
This means  they didnt have  to take adequate steps to ensure  the policy  was suitable for Ms C. So, 
for example,  they didnt have to ask about or consider Ms Cs existing  provisions or assess  if the PPI 
was affordable for Ms C.
But B&B did have to give Ms C clear information so that she could make a proper choice about 
whether to take the policy out. I cant say that B&B gave Ms C all the information as they shouldve 
about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
So, I have to go on and consider whether  better information  wouldve put Ms C off taking the policy 
out. I dont  think it wouldve. I say this because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition  to Ms Cs sick pay and would have  done so for a 
much longer  period  of time:  potentially the remaining term of her mortgage.  
-Ms C didnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy such  as 
those relating to pre-existing medical  conditions  and unusual working arrangements. So, it 
seems like Ms C could have made a successful  claim  under the policy if the need arose.
-I havent seen any evidence  which would suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable  for Ms C.
-Ms C couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing  out financially  if she thought she 
could no longer  afford it or no longer wanted it.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont currently think Ms C was mis-sold this PPI policy  in 1989.
November 1996  further advance
It is right that Ms C applied for a further advance in November  1996. However, from the evidence 
available to me, I cant see that any amendments were made to Ms Cs existing policy  in terms of 
cover or benefit at this time. From the evidence  available to me, the amendments  relating to the 
addition of unemployment  cover and the corresponding  increase in policy costs, had already taken 
place prior to the further advance application - in May 1996. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form Ms C completed in May 1996.  I note that Ms C specifically 
made this application so that unemployment cover could  be added. Ive also seen a copy  of a letter 
Ms C wrote  to B&B enclosing her PPI application. This confirms that she would  like unemployment 
cover to be added. In this letter, she also sets out that she has recently undergone an operation and 
may need to have another operation. However, B&B dont  appear to have  acknowledged this at the 
time. B&B sent Ms C a letter on 14 May 1996 confirming that the amendment would apply  from the 
date Ms C signed the application form (9 May 1996) and a schedule was attached  which set out the 
policy inception date as 13 May 1996, the level of cover as accident,  sickness & unemployment and 
the cost as £6.50.
Ref: DRN40156674So, Im satisfied that the amendments relating to the addition of unemployment and the increase in 
costs took place in May 1996 and not at the time of the further advance  application  in November 
1996.
Ive had a look at the 1996  policy document provided  by B&B. Specifically under the heading 
Increases in Benefit  or Cover. This states  that the provisions of this Certificate  of Insurance  shall 
apply to the additional benefit or cover as if a new Certificate of Insurance had been issued from the 
date of the change.  It goes on to set out various  exclusions that apply to the additional  benefit and 
cover. Ive had a look at these to check whether Ms Cs medical condition  would have meant that she 
would no longer  be able to make a claim or be restricted from making  a claim  for this following this 
amendment. 
Having done that, I dont think the addition of the unemployment  cover would have had any adverse  
impact on Ms Cs ability to be able to make  a claim  for accident and sickness.  This is because  the 
exclusions only applied  to any additional benefit or cover. There was no additional benefit  as the 
monthly benefit remained the same as it was in 1989.  And the additional  cover only related to 
unemployment and this had no bearing  on a claim for accident and sickness.
The further advance application form completed in November 1996 had a section for PPI and Ms C 
could have answered Yes  or No to PPI. She answered  Yes and there is also a handwritten note 
which says please increase to cover new loan. However, there is nothing  to indicate that the benefit 
was increased  to cover the new loan. In fact, evidence provided from June 1999 (letter from B&B to 
Ms C) shows  that the level of benefit was still £100 until Ms C applied for it to be increased  to £126  
(again in June 1999).
As there  was no additional benefit or cover at the time of the November 1996 further advance, again  
there would  have been  no impact on Ms Cs ability to make a claim under  the policy for any medical 
conditions. Ms C has confirmed that her circumstances were the same in all other respects.
So, having taken everything into consideration, I dont currently think Ms C was mis-sold  PPI.
commission
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure  of commission 
where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy   
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer,  then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back  
the amount of commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added  to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came  into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained  that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
B&B have given me information that shows Ms Cs mortgage was taken  out in 1989 and ended in 
2006. So based on what Ive said above,  I dont  think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules  and guidance made by the FCA in 
relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply  here.
So B&B dont  need to refund any of the commission  Ms C paid for the PPI she had with her mortgage. 
Ref: DRN40156675my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Ms Cs complaint against Bradford & Bingley Plc.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4015667