K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc unfairly declined her claim for 
storm damage to her boundary wall.
Mrs B is represented by Mr H.
background
Mrs B made the claim under her home  insurance  policy. The cover is underwritten by RSA, 
which means its responsible for the claim  and this complaint. For ease, throughout my 
decision I will simply refer to RSA when referencing  the actions of all the businesses 
involved.
Mrs Bs boundary wall collapsed during strong  winds. RSA appointed a surveyor  to inspect 
the wall, who declined  the claim.  The surveyor noted that the wall was 1.8 metres tall, built 
with single brick thickness, and a damp  proof membrane had been added  to the base. The 
surveyor commented that a single brick wall shouldnt  exceed 1.2 metres in height;  and a 
damp proof membrane isnt necessary in a boundary wall, and reduces the bond strength. 
They concluded the wall had failed due to poor workmanship; that it was insufficient to 
withstand wind pressure  and the damage  was inevitable.
Mr H complained about the decision.  He said the wall was rebuilt  about  seven years ago to 
replicate the original wall that had stood for about 50 years   and it had been unaffected by 
storms during that time. He said the storm on the day the wall collapsed  was the proximate 
cause of the damage, and the wall wouldnt  have  fallen but for hurricane force gusts.  
However, RSA maintained its position.
Mr H referred  the complaint to this service.  It was considered by one of our investigators, but 
she didnt think it should be upheld. She explained  that she had relied  on the expert  opinion  
of the surveyor  and concluded that the main cause of the damage  was the wall had been 
poorly constructed. She thought the storm conditions  had highlighted the problem, rather  
than caused it. She also explained that faulty  design is excluded under the policy.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. Mr H has made  the following points:
there wasnt any damage to the wall before  the storm and the wall had survived  
numerous strong winds;
he accepts that the inclusion of a damp  proof membrane was unnecessary  and 
reduced the bond strength, but says that isnt damage;
neighbouring walls were built at least 50 years  ago to the same  height and thickness 
and the vast majority  remain  in place;
the neighbours wall fell over in the same incident, and that wall hadnt been  rebuilt  
recently and had no damp  proof  membrane;
the wind direction  on the day in question and the orientation  of the surrounding 
buildings would  have  added to the effect  of the storm  force  gusts;
Ref: DRN49702202numerous claims are settled by insurers following  storm damage,  when current 
building standards havent been  met
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As explained by our investigator, there  are three  conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage  should  succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed  Mrs Bs complaint and all the evidence with these  three questions  in 
mind.
RSA has confirmed there was violent storm force  gusts recorded at a nearby weather station 
on the day of the incident;  and a collapsed wall is typical  of the damage caused by a storm. 
So Im satisfied the first two conditions have been  met. However, overall  Im not persuaded 
the third condition has been  met, i.e. that the storm winds,  though  strong, were the main 
cause of the damage.
I understand the points Mr H has made  about  neighbouring walls  and Ive thought carefully  
about his comments. But I also need  to consider that there were two structural issues  with 
Mrs Bs wall. The surveyors observations about the wall height are supported by guidance 
published on the governments website. Mr H also accepts that a damp proof membrane 
isnt needed on a boundary wall and weakens the structure  and Ive seen this is well 
documented on various on-line resources.
In my view, a well-constructed wall should last much longer  than seven years   and of the 
arguments presented,  Im more persuaded that the main cause of the wall collapsing  was a 
combination of the two structural issues, rather than the storm conditions  that were  present 
that day. In other words,  Im not persuaded that a seven year old wall would have collapsed  
without these two issues. I acknowledge that the wind was a contributing factor,  but based 
on the information available, I consider it likely that the storm simply highlighted existing  
problems.
Therefore, having  carefully considered the available information and all the points Mr H has 
made, Im satisfied that RSA hasnt acted unreasonably  by declining Mrs Bs claim.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B, and Mr H. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN49702203Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4970220