K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  has turned down his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr B suffered  a fall on holiday,  and hit his face. He was taken  to hospital for treatment. He 
made a claim to UKI for his medical costs.  
UKI said Mr Bs medical claim arose  because he had drunk  too much alcohol  or alcohol 
abuse. This meant his claim was excluded under the policys terms. Mr B strongly disagreed 
with UKIs  response to his claim and came  to us.
Our adjudicator ultimately thought UKI had reached  a fair decision to turn down his claim. 
Mr B asked for a review. Ill summarise the main arguments that UKI and Mr B have made.  
the main arguments
UKI has relied on the medical evidence and information Mr B gave it about the fall. It says, in 
summary:
The medical report says that Mr B was seen in the emergency department today for 
your alcohol  intoxication and near fall. Your exam was reassuring. We recommended  
a CT scan but you declined. Your wounds were cleaned The diagnosis  was 
elevated ethanol  level, fall. So alcohol was the primary cause for treatment, with the 
fall being secondary. A medical professional advising  he was intoxicated is sufficient 
evidence to confirm  his judgement was impaired.
The codes used  by the hospital  to bill for the treatment were for: finding alcohol in 
blood; alcohol abuse with intoxication and other unspecified fall. The use of the 
word abuse  suggests his judgement was seriously affected.  
It hasnt got a toxicology report  showing the level of alcohol in Mr Bs blood stream. 
But these tests  arent always standard, and it isnt able to obtain these reports  for 
out-patients in the country Mr B was visiting. But the observation of intoxication  must 
have been visibly observed, suggesting  he was drunk and his judgement was 
affected. The doctor didnt comment on his coordination and balance but thought  
intoxication was sufficient  to be included in their report and diagnosis. 
On discharge Mr B was given  patient education  materials including  one for alcohol 
intoxication. 
In the first call to UKI Mr B said the incident (the fall) happened around midnight after 
hed had a few  around three   alcoholic drinks. A few days  later he said hed had 
five to seven vodka mixers. It wasnt clear why the number of drinks he said hed had 
changed, or what had happened in the time before he was admitted to hospital  
(3.50am). But if he couldnt remember this was enough to show  his judgement had 
been seriously affected due to the amount  of alcohol consumed. If hed stopped 
drinking at midnight  but was still intoxicated he must have  been  less sober at the time 
of the fall than when  hed first gone to hospital. 
Mr B has never disputed that hed drunk  alcohol on the night hed been taken to 
hospital. But he denies drinking too much alcohol or alcohol abuse. In his first call to 
UKI he said hed had a few drinks, and he later he said it was between  five to seven 
vodkas with mixers. Even if (as he later suggested)  he usually drank this amount on 
a long night out this could still mean  his judgement was affected. 
Ref: DRN48455982Mr B suffered  facial  contusions, which wouldnt affect his memory about the number 
of drinks hed had before the fall. The doctors would have taken him for a CT scan  if 
they thought one was necessary. 
Hed not been clear  whether hed tripped over a kerb or pavement.  But either way its 
likely hed have put his hands  out and suffered wrist injuries attempting to break his 
fall had he not been intoxicated. Instead  he suffered facial injuries  (perhaps  because 
he didnt attempt to break his fall). 
In response Mr B has made detailed points, and in summary he says:
UKI has made a number of assumptions through the hospitals use of codes for 
billing. He refers  to well known padding for charging medical expenses in that 
country; mentioning  a charge of more than £100  just for giving him a leaflet about 
alcohol. The doctor  didnt say in their report that there had been  alcohol abuse  
that was a code  used  when the billing department sent the bill. 
Hed had some drinks in a country  abroad, had fallen and hit his head.  Head injuries  
have related symptoms,  and some confusion and disorientation is reasonable. 
He questions why the doctor wanted to do a CT scan  if there wasnt any possible 
head injury. So either  the doctor  was padding  the bill or was concerned. He didnt 
have the CT scan as he was disoriented  having had an accident  abroad and wanted 
to go to bed. If the hospital had been  thorough  enough to insist on a CT scan then 
surely it would have  insisted on a toxicology report, if the doctor  had been that 
concerned about his alcohol  level. And in any even  a patient can still refuse to have a 
scan, which hed done.
Other than a short follow up call UKI didnt contact him about its assumptions about 
the fall until it declined his claim around  two months  later.  It said it had tried to call but 
hed had no missed  calls. It didnt have enough  information to assume alcohol 
affected his judgement. He said even with five to seven vodkas the alcohol would 
leave his system at one unit an hour.  Hed had a simple  accident which  could happen 
to anyone whether  or not theyd  drunk  alcohol.  
If hed known the importance UKI would attach  to the initial  call then hed have given 
further clarity, to explain that at the time hed spoke to UKI he was: abroad,  having 
had some drinks, with a facial/head trauma, little sleep, pressure to pay a large bill 
before leaving  the hospital, tired with a headache  having  had a fall that needed a CT 
scan. Hed plucked midnight out of the air, and didnt realise it would be such  an 
issue. The accident must have been  later, nearer to the admission time as the bar 
hadnt been more than thirty minutes  from the hospital. UKI is making assumptions, 
which isnt fair. 
He has a professional  role (which he described) and hasnt claimed before.
Hed tripped and initially said this was on a kerb. Hed later said it was an uneven 
pavement, but this was a few months  later. There had been  some inconsistency but 
he didnt think this was important.  Hed had an accident which  could happen to 
anyone. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its policy  UKI says that it excludes  any claim caused by drinking  too much alcohol  or 
alcohol abuse. UKI says it doesnt expect the insured person to avoid drinking alcohol. But it 
will not cover  any medical claims arising because  the insured person has drunk  so much 
alcohol that their judgement is seriously  affected.  
Ref: DRN48455983Its for UKI to show, on the balance of probabilities,  that it is entitled to apply the exclusion to 
Mr Bs claim. Ive weighed  all the evidence, and having done  so I think UKI has done enough 
to turn down  Mr Bs claim on the basis that the main  cause of his claim fell within the policy 
exclusion  that he was drinking too much alcohol and/or alcohol abuse. Ill explain why and 
in doing so Ill focus on what I think are the central issues  in this complaint. 
In submitting its medical bill the hospital  used  codes for finding alcohol in blood; alcohol 
abuse with intoxication and other unspecified fall. Mr B says that this was information 
provided by the billing department. But I think the medical evidence  is that these codes were 
based on information provided  by the treating doctor. 
I say this because  the doctor did say the principal diagnosis was the elevated alcohol level,  
with the fall being secondary. The doctors  summary  said theyd treated Mr B for his alcohol  
intoxication. Ive read Mr Bs comments that the hospital might have been padding the bill 
in charging him to give him a patient  education  leaflet about alcohol intoxication.  But I dont 
think this was more  likely  than not, given the doctors other  comments about his alcohol 
intake.
I accept that a fall could  happen to anyone, whether or not theyd drunk alcohol. But here 
I think there was a link between the intoxication and the fall in the medical  notes. It follows  
that I think UKI has shown  that its more likely than not that the fall was due to alcohol 
intoxication. 
There was a gap between the time Mr B initially said hed fallen and his admission to 
hospital. That could  be explained by Mr B being  confused during that initial  call with UKI. But 
Ive listened to that call and theres  no other obvious indication that he was confused during 
the call, having given  clear information to UKI about  his claim. 
UKI has said the doctors were thorough, but Mr B says they didnt run a toxicology report to 
measure the blood level in the alcohol. Ive taken into account the lack of a toxicology report 
but in this case I dont  think  it means UKI cant  exclude the claim. The main costs in this 
medical claim were to treat the alcohol intoxication, and the doctors  diagnosis  was alcohol 
intoxication. 
I know there were some inconsistencies in Mr Bs explanation about how the accident 
happened and the amount hed drunk. Ive read his comments  about this, why minor 
inconsistencies shouldnt  mean his case fails and how the body processes alcohol units 
over time. Ive also noted his comments about being a professional person whos not 
claimed before.  But I dont  find these points change my finding in this complaint. For me, its 
whether UKI has shown,  on the medical  evidence, that alcohol intoxication and/or alcohol 
abuse was the cause  of the claim. On balance I think UKI has shown  that so I dont uphold  
this complaint.  
Ref: DRN48455984my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4845598