K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide), and its failure  to provide 
her with statements  in an alternative format.  Mrs G would like compensation for her distress  
and inconvenience.  
background
Mrs G describes herself as severely  disabled, following a stroke.
In March 2017, Mrs G attended  a branch  of Nationwide and advised  the clerk that she was 
experiencing difficulties using ATMs  and internet banking. It was agreed  that she would 
thereafter be sent her bank statements  in hard copy,  in a larger font. 
Nationwide did not action this request. 
Mrs G said that she used  her statements to monitor her balance and during the period when 
she was not receiving statements, on occasion,  she exceeded her balance and incurred 
charges. 
Mrs G was in an out of hospital over the period and describes  trying  to contact Nationwide 
but having difficulties reaching a member of staff. She says that when she was able to speak 
to staff she received  confusing responses on why she was not receiving statements, and 
ultimately had to visit the branch. 
She said that when  she visited the branch the manager had little understanding of her needs 
and she found  it embarrassing having to explain why she wanted  the statements.
Mrs G formally complained to Nationwide in April 2018. Nationwide  then began  sending her 
statements in the larger font, nearly a year after the initial request.
Nationwide sent Mrs G its final response  in May 2018. It acknowledged  that it had not 
actioned her request  and agreed to refund the charges that she had incurred. Nationwide 
also offered Mrs G £50 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs G was not satisfied with this response  and contacted us. She complained that she was 
extremely distressed to find that she had exceeded  her overdraft limit, and that she found it 
embarrassing.
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that whilst it is the customers responsibility to ensure that they stay within their account 
limits, Nationwide had not assisted Mrs G in this and should increase the compensation to 
her. He recommended that the compensation for Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience be 
increased to £250.
Nationwide has not accepted that view and argued  that Mrs G was able to use other  
methods to monitor her balance. It said that she continued to use ATM balances during the 
period and that telephone  banking  was available to Mrs G. It also notes  that Mrs G has 
continued to exceed her balance on occasion since she has received  the statements, so it 
thought that the statements would not have  helped her and the adjudicators 
recommendation was too much.
Ref: DRN46790702The complaint has therefore been  passed for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mrs G requested hard copy statements  and that Nationwide  agreed 
to send these  in a larger  font. Nationwide accepts that it did not action this request until Mrs 
G made  a complaint,  nearly a year later.. 
This was a failing from Nationwide,  and Nationwide accepted that it should refund the 
charges incurred over this time and offer some  compensation  for distress suffered. 
The failure to send statements in Mrs Gs preferred format caused Mrs G the inconvenience 
of not being able to use her preferred method of monitoring her balance,  particularly whilst in 
and out of hospital. She was distressed to learn  that she had exceeded  her account limits, 
whilst unable  to view her statements. 
She says that her distress and inconvenience  was exacerbated when she attended the 
branch and the manager queried her reason for needing the statements. She said that she 
felt she had to explain  her health conditions  and needs, and this caused her embarrassment 
and distress.  
Nationwide has disagreed with the amount of compensation proposed by the adjudicator  as 
it considers that its offer to date was sufficient, especially when taking into account the 
refunded fees.
I think it was appropriate  for Nationwide to refund the charges  incurred,  but I also think  that 
the compensation recommended  by our adjudicator is reasonable and is in line with other  
awards we would make in similar circumstances.
The fact that Mrs G was able to sometimes use ATM balances, and that another  method of 
checking balances  was available does not prevent her having been caused distress  by her 
preferences being  ignored and her request challenged. 
I therefore uphold  the complaint and endorse  the adjudicators view that Nationwide  should  
pay Mrs G a further £200 compensation, bringing  the total compensation paid for distress  
and inconvenience  to £250. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mrs G a further  £200  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 
20 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46790703
Ref: DRN4679070