K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank Plc blocked and then closed his accounts. Mr B says 
Barclays havent explained why it blocked and closed his accounts.  And that this caused  him 
a great  deal of inconvenience. He wants Barclays to apologise and pay him compensation. 
background
Mr B had two accounts with Barclays. 
On 9 April 2018,  Barclays blocked Mr Bs accounts. The blocks stopped Mr B from being  
able to access money in his accounts.  Barclays told Mr B that the review would be 
completed within 10 days. 
On 10 April 2018, Barclays wrote  to Mr B to let him know  it had decided to close  his 
accounts immediately  and to make alternative banking arrangements. Mr B complained  to 
Barclays about the block and closure  of his accounts. And told Barclays that he felt it had 
discriminated against him. 
Barclays said its not obliged to enter  into any discussion with Mr B to explain its decision to 
block and then close his accounts. It said it had completed its review within the 10 day time 
frame. But it recognised it had closed Mr Bs accounts abruptly. So it apologised and offered 
Mr B £200  compensation for any inconvenience this had caused  him. Unhappy with this 
response Mr B brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr B says that Barclays hasnt properly  explained the reasons why it blocked and then 
closed his accounts. Hes told us that this caused him a great deal of stress  and anxiety. And 
the blocks on his accounts made it difficult for him to pay his bills. Mr B also says that 
Barclays deliberately  prevented  him from being able to use the account switching service. 
Our investigator was satisfied Barclays had acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts when  it reviewed Mr Bs accounts. She said Barclays shouldve  
given Mr B 60 days notice when it decided to close his accounts. And not closed his 
accounts immediately.  But she thought  Barclays offer of compensation was fair. 
Mr B disagreed. Hes still upset that Barclays blocked his accounts  without  explanation.  He 
says this caused him a great  deal of upset and inconvenience. He says he hasnt done 
anything wrong  and feels Barclays are discriminating  against  him and treating him 
differently. He wants Barclays to provide a full explanation and pay him compensation for the 
trouble Barclays caused by blocking  and closing his accounts. As no agreement  could be 
reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
account block
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly  about his complaint.  But Barclays was entitled to review  his 
account under the account  terms and conditions. Having  looked at the evidence, Im also 
satisfied that Barclays  acted in line with its legal  and regulatory obligations when it blocked 
Ref: DRN40141102and reviewed Mr Bs account. I accept  that that this caused Mr B difficulty.  And I can 
understand that hes frustrated that he hasnt  been  given a proper explanation. But Barclays 
doesnt have to provide this to him. So I cant say it did anything  wrong by not giving him this 
information.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this particular case, I can see no basis on which 
I might  make  an award  against Barclays given that I dont think it failed to properly follow  its 
own procedures when  it blocked and reviewed Mr Bs account. So Im not going to ask 
Barclays to compensate him for any inconvenience  this may have caused him.
account closure
Mr B says Barclays  closing his account made  life very difficult  for him. In particular, he says 
he wasnt able to use the account switching  service to make  sure all of his direct debits were 
transferred across to his other bank  account. So he had to manually set up a number of 
direct debits, which took time and caused him inconvenience. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs account  say Barclays can close  Mr Bs accounts without 
any notice in certain circumstances. Or for any reason provided it gives  two months notice. 
They also say that any benefit or services  linked to our account  will stop at the same  time. 
I appreciate Barclays can close an account without notice in certain circumstances. But its 
not told me if it did in this case or what those circumstances may have been. So Ive 
concluded that Barclays didnt wish to close the account without notice in this case. I agree 
with the investigator  that Barclays couldve handled  the account closing far better. I also 
agree that it should pay compensation.
Barclays accepts it couldve given better notice when it closed Mr Bs account. Ive not seen 
any evidence that Barclays deliberately  didnt  give him more  notice in order to prevent Mr B 
using the switching service. But because Barclays closed Mr Bs account immediately he 
wasnt afforded the opportunity to use the account switching service as that service  stopped  
once his account had been  closed. Im satisfied that this did cause Mr B some 
inconvenience because  he had to manually set up a number  of direct debits.
Barclays has said it will pay Mr B £200 in compensation for not giving Mr B more notice 
when it closed his accounts. I know that Mr B says that isnt enough. And hes told us that 
this issue has caused him a lot of trouble. Ive considered that carefully.  But our role isnt to 
punish businesses  for their mistakes.  We award  what we think is fair and reasonable. And 
the compensation Barclays has offered  is in line with the sorts of awards our service  usually 
recommends. Ive also kept in mind that Mr B did have use of other bank accounts. So, 
overall I think its the right amount of compensation for Barclays closing Mr Bs accounts 
without giving him 60 days notice. It doesnt have to pay compensation just for closing the 
accounts. 
 
other issues
Mr B suspects that Barclays has discriminated against him when it closed his accounts. I can 
understand Mr Bs feelings about  the number of problems that hes raised with the bank, but 
I dont believe that there  is any evidence of systematic unfair treatment.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to. And 
Banks can choose who they offer their services to. They cannot unfairly discriminate against 
Ref: DRN40141103a customer but they can say they no longer wish to do business with individuals. Thats  
because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide who they want to contract  with. And 
Im satisfied that Barclays has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it decided 
to close Mr Bs accounts. So I cannot  fairly  and reasonably  say its done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mr B thinks Barclays discriminated against him when it took the action it did. 
I dont underestimate  his strength of feeling  about this matter,  but I find nothing to indicate 
that this was the reason  why Mr Bs accounts  were closed.
In summary,  I think Barclays offer to pay £200  in compensation  to Mr B is fair and 
reasonable. And, while I appreciate Mr B wont agree, I wont  be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this 
complaint. So I wont  be asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4014110