K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the advice he was given by Insight Financial Associates Limited
(Insight) to transfer his personal pension plan to a Rowanmoor  Family Pension  Trust (FPT)
to invest in two properties  in Cape  Verde. Mr T says this was unsuitable  as the risks involved
were too high.
background
Ive considered this complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2019. 
In it I set out the background to the complaint.  Ive repeated it here:
In 2009 Mr T had a personal pension plan with Clerical  Medical.  It was invested in low risk 
funds. The total fund value was £432,845. Mr T became interested in buying property in 
Cape Verde. Hed been there  and seen the site and was dealing  with a third party  in 
Cape Verde who introduced him to Insight for advice on using his pension  fund to purchase 
the property. 
Mr T signed Insights terms of business on 29 April 2009. 
Ive seen a confidential financial review form (fact find).  Mr  T and his wife didnt  make  full 
disclosure of their income and expenditure but its recorded that Mr T was self-employed.  
Theres a note that his business is worth about  £3.5 million. At the attitude to risk section 
high risk (the highest category) has been ticked. The notes to that section of the form say: 
We discussed your attitude to risk and agreed this was high risk, following our discussions 
around your other assets including your business currently  valued at £3.5 m. You confirmed  
that you did not want to complete the risk questionnaire.
The fact find was signed on 1 July 2009.  Mr Ts wife appears to have signed it but Im not 
sure about  the other signature as it doesnt look the same as Mr Ts signature on our 
complaint form. Neither is it the same as the signature on the suitability report (which is also 
dated 1 July 2009). That report appears  to have been signed by the adviser as the signature 
is directly below a statement that he has prepared the report.   
The suitability report refers to a final meeting on 1 July 2009. Mr T was then aged almost 63. 
The report  records that Mr T was married with no dependent children; self-employed; in 
good health; and had an outstanding mortgage of £300,000. His business was valued  at 
approximately £3.5 million. It owed £200,000 of which Mr T personally owed £100,000. 
Mr Ts objectives  were recorded  as:
Retirement
A review of your existing retirement plans  as you approach  retirement. This is to 
maximise the potential  benefits  that you could  receive in retirement.  We agreed  to 
consider the merits  of continuing with your existing  plan unaltered, the option of a 
switch of funds on the existing  plan,  or a transfer of the funds and any future 
contributions to another provider, with the potential to produce a better  performance.
You have recently purchased a Cape  Verde property and wish to explore the 
possibilities of purchasing this property via your pension fund. This is an option that 
has only just become available.
Ref: DRN41445442The report  said it had been  agreed that Insight would be remunerated by a fee of 2% or 
£8,656 of the transfer value paid out of the fund. 
It also said that Mr T didnt want to complete an attitude to risk questionnaire and had 
confirmed his attitude to risk was high and his risk score 9 -10. That was high risk and meant 
he was prepared to accept the risk attached to extremely volatile investments that can fall 
and rise substantially. 
The report  went on to say that the Cape  Verde property would be deemed  to be a high risk 
investment (risk 10). Mr T would be reducing  the overall diversification by having  a large 
allocation in property.  The investment  was also unregulated.  Mr T had acknowledged that it 
was a higher risk investment  and was happy  to proceed on that basis.  The report  also said 
that the adviser had only recommended the pension wrapper and the investment  the 
Cape Verde property   had been selected  solely at Mr Ts own discretion. 
Details of Mr Ts existing  pension plan with Clerical Medical were set out. The report then 
gave Insights recommendations  that Mr T invest in the FPT. The reasons  given  included  
that it would  allow substantial control  over the choice of investments and the range of 
permitted investments (which included  direct investment in commercial property) was greater 
than other  types  of pension arrangements. 
Later on in the report it said the recommended pension would allow the purchase  of 
overseas property, in this instance Mr Ts Cape Verde property; that Mr Ts primary objective 
was to purchase that property through his pension plan, which  the recommended plan could 
do; and Insights adviser hadnt recommended the purchase of the property  Mr T had 
decided to make that purchase and wanted to look at the possibility of making that purchase 
via his pension  fund. 
As Ive noted, the report appears  to have been signed by the adviser on 1 September  2009. 
Mr T says he didnt  get a copy of the report.  
Ive also seen reservation agreements dated  5 May 2009 for two Cape Verde properties. I 
understand that Mr T paid a reservation  fee of £1,504  for each  property on 8 May 2009.  I 
think there may have  been some further  negotiations and the properties  Mr T actually 
purchased may have  been different to those  he initially reserved.
The transfer from Clerical  Medical went ahead in July 2009. A payment  of £144,359.60 was 
made out of Mr Ts SIPP fund on 8 October 2009.  I think that was the full purchase price  for 
one of the apartments. On the same  date a payment of £43,968.05  was made in respect of 
the second apartment.  The reservation fees Mr T had paid (£3,008 in total)  were  refunded  
to him on 15 October  2009. The balance of £51,460.25  for the second  apartment was paid 
on 10 December 2012.
The Cape Verde  development  suffered delays in construction. The properties were 
completed in December 2014. By then Insight  had been removed as Mr Ts advisers.  Hed 
sold his business  and instructed a new adviser.  I understand that was to advise about 
investing some of the proceeds from the sale.
From 2015  rental income was generated by the Cape Verde properties. Mr T received  the 
first statement  in May 2015.  The income was lower  than hed been  expecting.  
Ref: DRN41445443Mr T complained formally  to Insight in October  2017. Insight didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said Mr T had been introduced to investing  in the properties by a third party  and hed visited  
the Cape Verde resort before deciding to proceed. Insight had discussed Mr Ts objective of 
using his pension  to purchase  the properties  and his wish to take a high risk strategy with his 
pension. Mr T had other financial resources and he didnt think his pension fund was a 
significant part of his portfolio. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Insight initially  argued  we couldnt consider the 
complaint as it hadnt been made in time. I explained that one of my ombudsman colleagues 
had considered that but had concluded  Mr Ts complaint had been made in time.  Id thought 
about jurisdiction  too and I agreed with my colleague that Mr Ts complaint hadnt been  
made too late. 
I went on to consider the merits of the complaint, that is if it should be upheld or not. I made 
the following  findings:   
The arrangement Insight  recommended  was a PFT. I havent gone  into how that operated 
as Mr Ts focus is on the losses  that hes suffered as a result  of the underlying  investment  
the two Cape Verde properties. 
Insight said that it was only recommending the pension wrapper itself and that Mr T had 
already made his own decision  about the proposed  investment.  Our adjudicator  said that 
approach wasnt  right.  I agree.  Suitable advice generally requires consideration of the whole 
transaction including the intended  underlying investment. Insight knew  that Mr T intended  to 
invest in property in Cape Verde. Insight should have considered whether that investment 
was suitable for Mr T. 
Mr T says it wasnt suitable as it didnt match his attitude to risk  which  he says was low to 
medium. Theres a dispute  about that as, according  to the suitability report, Mr T had agreed  
his attitude to risk was high. And Insight  pointed out that the proposed investment was high 
risk and Mr T was apparently happy  to proceed on that basis. 
Ref: DRN41445444But Mr T says he didnt  get the suitability report and wouldnt  have  invested  in anything  that 
was high risk. 
We asked Insight if it had a copy of the suitability report signed by Mr T. But Insight didnt.  
So its difficult to be certain  Mr T did get a copy of the report. Insight said the report  would 
have been issued around the time the business was written with a client acknowledgement 
included but it was up to the client if he wished to return it. The report  doesnt appear to have 
been sent to Mr T by post or emailed to him. It seems it would have been handed to him by 
Insights adviser  presumably at the meeting on 1 July 2009.  
I think its unlikely that Mr T would have proceeded without getting Insights advice in writing. 
He was paying a fairly  considerable fee  £8,656   out of the transfer  value of the 
Clerical Medial plan. Plus an annual  adviser fee of £2,000, although  I think  only one payment 
was made   the provider has explained  that the fee was paid on production of an invoice 
from the adviser and as it appears Insight only submitted  one invoice no further  fees were  
paid. Given those charges, Id have thought Mr T would  have  expected (and insisted on) 
formal written advice from Insight. 
I also note that Mr T had been  involved in a complaint against his previous advisers. I think 
that would  have made him aware that things can sometimes go wrong and so hed have 
been cautious about proceeding without  getting advice in writing.  
But it seems  that in any event Mr T had several  meetings  with Insight, the last of which (in so 
far as it related to the transfer of his Clerical Medical  plan) was on 1 July 2009 which  is the 
date of the suitability report.   I dont think its unreasonable to assume that the focus of that 
meeting was the report and that its contents  would have been  discussed with Mr T.
Further the report repeated some  of what was recorded in the fact find as having been 
discussed at the meeting. As Ive explained above, Im not sure about the signature that 
appears on the fact find where Mr T ought  to have signed it. But it looks  like his wife did sign 
the form. Amongst other things the declaration recorded that the information  given  and 
recorded on the form was correct. So Id assume that the contents  of the form were 
discussed, along with the suitability report.  And Mr T would have known that Insight was 
proceeding on the basis that he was prepared to take a high degree of risk for this particular 
investment which  was to be made out of his pension fund.   
Prior to Insights involvement  Mr Ts pension fund was held in cash. That might  indicate a 
cautious or risk averse approach. What had happened was that his Clerical Medical plan had 
been set up in 2007 following advice  from his previous adviser. Mr T had transferred four 
existing plans (three with Scottish Widows and one with what was then Norwich  Union) to 
the Clerical Medical  plan.  It was then invested in a range of funds, Mr T having been 
assessed as having a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. 
In early 2008 Mr T contacted his adviser to change his fund selection to 100% cash  hed 
seen his fund value drop by about  £30,000 in less than a year. And in 2009 hed complained 
to his then adviser  saying,  amongst  other things, the charges for the new plan were higher 
and this hadnt been explained to him, nor had the value of the benefits he was giving up. He 
also said that the funds didnt match his cautious  attitude to risk. 
Ref: DRN41445445Im not sure what the outcome was  I think an offer may have been made which  Mr T didnt 
accept but, for some reason, the matter didnt  proceed further. But I think what  happened 
demonstrates that by 2009 Mr T would have  been  aware of the concept  of risk  as Ive said 
part of his complaint against  his previous adviser was that hed been invested in funds that 
were too high risk. So I think hed have known that if his attitude to risk was recorded  as high 
then the sort of assets that could be recommended to him would be commensurate with that. 
And Mr T knew  from his previous investment experience that higher risk funds could bring 
about large losses in a relatively short space of time. 
Insight didnt advise  Mr T about  the investments  because it thought (wrongly) that it didnt 
need to. But it did tell Mr T that investing  in the Cape Verde properties  was high risk  a risk 
factor of 10, so at the very top end of the risk scale. Insight pointed  to a lack of diversification 
and the unregulated nature of the investment. I think that somewhat understated the risks  
investing off plan in an overseas property development  poses multiple risks, including but 
not limited to those  identified by Insight plus the currency  risk which  Mr T has mentioned. 
But, although all the risks may not have been spelled out, Mr T would have been aware that 
the investment  should be regarded as very high risk. 
I note that it was Mr Ts only pension provision. And, when the advice was given, he was a 
few days off his 63rd birthday. But, looking  at his overall financial position,  the pension  fund 
represented a relatively small proportion of his overall wealth, at least if the value of his 
business, which it seems Mr T would be selling at some  stage,  is taken into account. 
The report  said that his business was worth  about £3.5 million. Mr T says at the time what it 
might be sold for wasnt known. But I dont see where Insights  adviser would have got that 
figure from (which is also recorded in the fact find) if that hadnt  been what  Mr T had said.  
And it seems credible given that its not too far from the amount actually realised when Mr T 
did sell his business premises (although that wasnt until 2013). 
Looking at Mr Ts overall financial position  I dont think  its unreasonable to say hed be 
relying more on the capital the sale of his business  was expected to (and did) generate to 
fund his retirement. So, on that basis,  I think  he did have the capacity for loss that could  
result if the investments  fell in value or if he was unable to liquidate them when  he came to 
retire.
I dont think it was open to Insight to advise Mr T just on the wrapper,  without considering the 
underlying investments. So Insights advice was incomplete and, from that perspective, 
unsuitable. But, in deciding if the complaint should be upheld, I have to consider what would 
have been suitable advice. I dont  think investing in the Cape Verde properties was 
inherently unsuitable for Mr T, given his overall  financial position and circumstances. So on 
that basis I dont  think  the complaint should  be upheld.   
I also think there may be an argument that Mr T was committed  to purchasing  the properties 
and would have  gone ahead anyway.  I note that before Insight advised him hed visited  the 
development in Cape  Verde, selected  which properties he wished to purchase and paid 
reservation fees. I further note what Insight says about Mr T having taken steps to ensure 
that the properties he actually bought  were  in his preferred location. I think that shows  a 
degree of commitment to the project  which might suggest that, even  if Insights advice had 
been more robust in terms  of the risks that Mr T would be taking, hed still have been 
inclined to go ahead.
Ref: DRN41445446Insight didnt want to comment further. 
Mr Ts representative  asked for additional time to respond. We allowed the extra  time 
requested. 
But the deadline passed some time ago and we didnt get any response from or on behalf of 
Mr T. His representative  did however  confirm  that Mr T had been  sent a copy  of my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments by either party my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision and recapped above.
For the reasons  Ive explained Im not upholding the complaint. I dont think  Insight acted  as 
it should have  done. In particular it wasnt open  to Insight to seek to limit its advice to the 
suitability of the wrapper  Insight  had to consider the intended underlying investment too. 
But despite  that, and notwithstanding  the high risk nature of the investment, I dont think it 
was inherently unsuitable  for Mr T, taking into account his overall financial position, 
experience and capacity for loss. And I think Mr T may have gone ahead anyway, even if 
Insight had advised against.  
We decide complaints  based on their individual facts and merits. Given the circumstances of 
this particular complaint  Im unable to uphold it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4144544