K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K were  sold the policy when they took out a loan in 2002. To pay for the PPI, 
they added  its cost onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single  premium  policy.  
The policy covered Mr K in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs Ks PPI policy  was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K were  originally sold PPI over the phone. Because the sale was so long ago, 
there isnt still a recording of the call. But Ive not seen  any wider problems with Nationwides  
sales process from the time  from what Ive seen of the process from around that time it 
looks like it wouldve been made clear that the policy was optional.  Then Mr and Mrs Ks 
loan agreement described the PPI as optional and set out its cost separately  from that of 
the loan itself, rather than as something that was automatically included.  And Mr and Mrs K 
signed the agreement.  Ive not seen any indication that the PPI was displayed as anything 
other than optional, nor do I have  any evidence which shows that Mr and Mrs K were put 
under any unfair pressure  to buy it. So I think its most likely that Nationwide made  Mr and 
Mrs K aware they had a choice about  buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs K personalised advice about buying  PPI, so it didnt have 
to check if it was right for them, or check Mr or Mrs Ks existing  benefits.  And in any case, 
Mrs Ks benefits werent relevant here, as the policy was for Mr K only.  Nationwide  did have 
to give Mr and Mrs K clear information about the PPI, so they could decide for themselves if 
it was right for them.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly  including the premium, the interest payable on 
the premium and the total cost. So it wouldve been  clear how much the PPI would cost 
Mr and Mrs K if they kept the policy for its full term. And given how long the policy could 
have paid out for, if Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim they couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than they paid for it. Further, if Mr and Mrs K cancelled the policy early, they would not 
have had a penalty, and would have got a proportional refund.
Lastly, its possible that Nationwide didnt point  out all of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. But Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
Ref: DRN43444252my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4344425