K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2000. 
background
Ms S took a single premium PPI with a hire purchase arrangement in 2000. The PPI was sold to 
Ms S by another  firm but Aviva has accepted responsibility for this complaint  about the mis-sale 
of PPI. So I will refer to the seller as Aviva to make  things easier. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. I explain  why below.
As these  events happened over 18 years ago, its maybe not surprising that neither party 
has been able to provide  the actual documentation from the time of the sale. But Aviva has 
provided a sample  of the sort of hire purchase  agreement that it thinks  Ms S would have 
signed at that time. It seems most likely that this is the document that Ms S would have 
seen. The hire purchase agreement describes the PPI as, Optional Insurance. The 
agreement explains the cost, which is shown separately to the cost of the hire purchase, and 
shows that interest is payable on it.  
So, I think its more likely  that PPI was presented as optional and Ms S chose to take it and 
thats how it came to be applied to the hire purchase  agreement.  But I understand why Ms S 
might not remember this, given these  events happened over 18 years ago.
Aviva says the policy was sold without a formal recommendation.  Ive been shown no 
documentary evidence  that suggests that the policy was sold on an advised basis.  So, Aviva 
had to give Ms S clear enough information about  the policy so she could  decide  if she 
wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Aviva gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I dont  think better information would have stopped her from buying it. I explain 
why I say that below.  
 
Ms S was eligible for the policy. And there  are things that sometimes  arent  covered  by a 
policy like this, or for which the benefit might be more difficult  to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Ms S wouldnt have been affected by those. For instance Ms S 
told us she was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Ms S had, most likely, a need for the cover.  I say this whilst noting that Ms S 
was entitled to some sick pay but cant remember how much that would be. I have also 
Ref: DRN46863812considered that Ms S told us she had £10,000  in savings at the time of the sale,  which  may 
have been helpful. Ive also considered that Ms S chose  to protect those  savings at the time 
by taking out a hire purchase arrangement rather than to use those savings instead. But this 
policy could have paid out for up to a year if Ms S lost her job, and for the duration of the hire 
purchase if she was too ill to work  through sickness or accident. And the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms S may have been entitled to, and would have  further 
protected Ms Ss savings  for other purposes. So, having considered this, on balance, I think 
that Ms S would  have found the policy useful.
Its not clear now if the policy was flexible, that is whether it would have given Ms S a pro 
rata refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy early. But I havent  seen sufficient 
evidence that Ms S would  have thought that she would have been likely to want  to cancel 
this before the term expired. So, even  if the policy was inflexible, I dont think  better  
information about this would have  put Ms S off the policy. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Ms S thought  now that the policy was expensive,  I think  
some of the costs were  set out on the agreement. And given how long the policy  could have 
paid out for, most likely, if Ms S made  a successful claim, she could have got back quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Ms S 
off taking out the cover. 
I should add, in relation to comments made by Ms Ss representative  when submitting this 
complaint, that this is a complaint about Aviva. Aviva is an insurer, rather than a lender. 
Because it is not a lender,  the unfair relationship provisions  set out at s140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s140A of the Act, and the 
rules and guidance made by the Financial  Conduct Authority about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin  judgment, arent  
applicable in this case. Consequently, this is not something that I need  to take into account  
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint about Aviva Insurance Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686381