K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC is about the service hes received, and the 
fees hes been charged, on his share dealing account.
background
Mr B has a share  dealing  account with Barclays. In 2017, Barclays changed the platform 
through which customers access their accounts.  The new platform  is called Smart Investor.
Mr B made a number  of complaints  related  to the new platform. He said:  
He was unable  to access his account  on three  occasions in September 2018.
The new platform doesnt allow for third party access to his account. Thats  important 
to him because hes away from home a lot and his mother  used to access  his 
account. 
It was no longer possible for his parents to transfer shares  directly  to him.
He should  be refunded the fees he was charged  between November 2017 and 
April 2019. Mr B says other  family members with Smart Investor accounts have been 
refunded fees for that period. 
Barclays said their new platform wouldnt allow for third party access  or offer the same 
facility for the transfer of shares. They paid Mr B £150 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused when he was unable to access his account in September  2018 and 
the loss of third party access. They didnt agree to the refund of fees that Mr B had 
requested. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything more. Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
He says it amounts  to discrimination for Barclays to refuse to refund his fees when  theyve 
done so for other customers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accept Mr B was unable to access his account  on three occasions in 
September 2018. Theyve apologised for the distress and inconvenience  that caused to him. 
Barclays have also agreed that their new platform doesnt  offer the same facility as the old 
system for third party access. They understand this was a facility that Mr B used  a lot 
because hes often  away from home. 
Barclays told customers about the loss of third party access  in the information given out prior 
to the change of platform. They also said they would try and reintroduce the facility, but it 
hadnt been possible to do so. 
I appreciate that the loss of third party access is very inconvenient  for Mr B. But were not 
the regulator and we cant tell a business what services they should  offer to their customers. 
Ref: DRN49973632I note that Barclays have paid Mr B compensation of £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by this change, and the problems accessing  his account in 
September 2018. Having looked at what  both parties have said, I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr B has been charged fees on his Smart Investor  account from November  2017.  He says 
that other  family members have been refunded the fees they were charged between  
November 2017  and April 2019. And he thinks its discriminatory for Barclays not to do the 
same for his account.  
Barclays have said they manage their customers accounts, and any related complaints,  
individually. A decision  to refund fees will have been based on the circumstances of that 
customers account. 
I can only look at Mr Bs complaint and whether  Barclays have acted in a fair and reasonable 
way in his case.  And having done so, I dont think I can say Barclays  have done anything  
wrong in charging  Mr B fees for the service  he received from November 2017. I note also 
that, as Ive discussed above, Barclays have compensated Mr B separately for some of the 
issues he experienced with his account. 
I can understand why Mr B feels he should be refunded the fees if other  customers  have 
been. But, based on the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint,  I dont think I can fairly  tell 
Barclays to do so. 
 
Finally, Ive looked at Mr Bs complaint that his parents  can no longer  transfer  shares directly 
to him. Barclays have said the process Mr B used previously was removed when they 
moved to the new platform. As Ive already mentioned, the ombudsman service  cant tell 
Barclays what services their accounts should offer.  
Barclays have suggested an alternative way in which Mr Bs parents could transfer shares  to 
him. Its not as convenient for Mr B as the previous service  and Barclays  have 
acknowledged that. But I dont think I can tell Barclays to do anything  more.
I realise this wont be the decision Mr B was hoping for, but I wont  be upholding his 
complaint. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997363