K821x#15complaint
Mr S says he was advised to transfer  pension benefits into a self-invested personal pension  
(SIPP) in order to invest in an arrangement called Capital Builder Lease in 2011. He says 
the advice was given by Concours Capital Ltd.  At the time it was an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd (now Quilter Financial Services  Ltd).  Mr S 
says the investment was an unregulated high risk investment and unsuitable for him.
The Capital Builder  Lease  was managed or operated  by Sustainable Agroenergy  (Sustain).  
Mr S transferred about  £32,000 from defined contribution occupational pensions to the new 
SIPP and invested  around £30,000  in the scheme.  
Later the investment failed and Sustain went into administration.  As I understand it, the 
investment is now worthless  and Mr S has lost the pension money he invested.   
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint in June 2019.  I explained why I thought we 
could consider the complaint and why I thought the complaint should be upheld.   I made  a 
number of points  including:
Mr S consulted  Concours in early 2011.   He was advised to set up a personal 
pension.  He dealt  with an adviser  - Mr B.  There is no complaint about that advice.
At that time Mr S was recorded as having a moderate attitude  to risk which  was 
defined as:
I am prepared to accept some risk to get potential returns above inflation over the 
longer term but I want to limit the amount of your [sic] money in more risky 
investments.
Later in 2011  Mr S was changing  jobs and he contacted Mr B at Concours.  There 
was an exchange  of emails.  The Sustain investment was discussed.   Mr B signed  off 
his emails as Head of Alternative  Investments, Concours Capital.
Mr S authorised Concours to obtain information  about his existing defined 
contribution occupational  pensions.   
Mr S applied  to open a SIPP  and transfer  his occupational pensions to it and then 
invest in the Sustain  investment. But there was no recommendation letter  recording 
any advice.
Both Intrinsic and Mr Ss lawyers have said the Sustain investment is an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  (UCIS).
The complaint  is about the suitability of the advice  to transfer to a SIPP in order to 
invest in the fund.
Intrinsics position was that: 
oNo advice was given by Concours.
oMr B was not authorised to give investment advice on behalf of Intrinsic.
oConcours is only authorised to advise on a restricted product range and 
neither Sustain nor the SIPP  were  permitted products.
Ref: DRN45524992oConcours was acting  as an introducer  for Sustain and/or the SIPP  provider.
On jurisdiction I made a number of points and provisional findings including:
Mr B of Concours had advised  Mr S to transfer  his occupational pensions to the SIPP 
and invest in the Sustain investment.  This  was all one linked transaction.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary  activities,  
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection  with them.
Advising on investments such as the rights  in a SIPP or UCIS is a regulated  activity.
Such advice may, under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  be 
given only by an authorised person or an exempt  person.  Intrinsic  (now Quilter) is an 
authorised person.
Under s.39 FSMA an authorised person (called  the principal) my contract  with 
another person (called an appointed representative) to give it authority to carry on 
prescribed business.  
Under s.39 the principal must accept responsibility for the whole or part of that 
business.   
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas accepted responsibility)."
Advising on investments and arranging deals in investments  are types  of prescribed 
business and Intrinsic accepted responsibly  for such business in its s.39 agreement  
with Concours.
However Intrinsic says it puts limits on the business it accepts responsibility  for and 
so:
othe advice  must  be given by a registered individual
othe adviser must pass  its exam in the case of pension transfers
othe adviser can only recommend listed plans.
The courts have said sometimes the restrictions in a s.39 agreement only apply as 
between the parties.  And sometimes they do restrict  the authority given to the 
appointed representative.  
The test, from a High Court decision in a case called Anderson  v Sense Network is 
that the principal  is responsible when the act or omission is sufficiently closely 
connected to the activities  for which the actual  authority was given.
Ref: DRN45524993I considered the restrictions in the s.39 agreement and made the following 
provisional findings:
oThe restriction that advice may only be given by registered individuals  did not 
restrict the responsibility of Intrinsic  for the advice given  as Concours was 
given authority to give investment advice. 
oAlthough Intrinsic only authorised Concours to recommend listed  plans it did 
also authorise Concours to review and advise on non-listed plans including 
occupational pensions when giving that advice.
oAlthough the adviser had not passed the pension transfer test there were 
other advisers at Concours who had and who could have  checked  his advice.  
If the adviser failed  to get his advice  checked this was, or was similar to 
certain duties to be fulfilled before  a product was offered as mentioned in 
the Sense  Network  case as not restricting a principals  responsibility. 
It was also my finding that Concours  was not acting as an introducer for the SIPP  
provider or for Sustain  when it advised  Mr S to transfer his pensions to the SIPP and 
invest in the Sustain  investment scheme.   
It was my view that Intrinsic (now  Quilter) was responsible for the advice given to 
Mr S.
The other jurisdiction  tests were satisfied  and so we can consider Mr Ss complaint.
I then made  points and provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ss complaint including:
In January 2013 the FSA issued an Alert on pension transfers with a view to 
investing into unregulated products through SIPPs.
This complaint involves advice to invest in an unregulated investment scheme 
through a SIPP.  Although the Alert had not been issued at the time of the advice in 
this case, the Alert comments  on how the rules at the time should have been  
complied with.  As such the Alert sets out guidance  albeit informal  guidance  that 
had not been published at the time  on how adviser firms should have acted in 
2011.
The guidance is clear.  The advice to transfer to a SIPP  cannot  reasonably  be 
considered by the adviser in isolation. The suitability  of the proposed  investment 
should also be considered. 
In January 2011 Mr Ss attitude to risk was assessed and recorded  as a Moderate  
Investor which was defined as:
This suggests you are prepared to accept  some  risk to get potential returns above 
inflation over the longer  term but you want to limit the amount of money in more  risky 
investments.  You understand that the returns cannot be guaranteed and you accept  
that you might get back less that you put in, especially  in the short  term.
The model asset allocation for such an investor  proposed 5% in commodities.
  
The Sustain  investment, made  only a short while later in 2011, invested  all the (SIPP)  
pension money  in a forestry based  investment scheme which would be considered 
Ref: DRN45524994relatively high risk. Investing  in a single commodity involves a lack of diversity or high 
specific risk.  This is compounded by additional factors  such as the investment being 
based overseas  in a developing economy and being  held in an unregulated format  
meaning it was subject to less supervision  and not covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  
These factors made the investment  high risk for a UK based investor such as Mr S.
The scheme investment was higher  risk than was appropriate for Mr Ss attitude to 
risk at the time of the advice.  
Intrinsic says it has noted that the Financial Ombudsman Service  has made a 
decision against the SIPP provider in a different  but similar complaint on the basis  it 
was at fault for not adequately checking a Sustain  forestry  investment before 
investing in it on behalf of a client.  Intrinsic says it wishes to have that point 
considered as part of its defence to this complaint.
In my view it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold the complaint 
against Intrinsic (now Quilter) for the fault of its appointed  representative and require 
it to put it things right.  The best way to deal with any potential  claim against the SIPP  
provider is to transfer the right to make any such claims to Quilter so it can pursue 
any such claim if it wishes.
I have also explained  to the parties how I think things should be put right by Quilter.   
Essentially, Quilter should,  as far as possible, put Mr S into the position he would now be in 
but for the unsuitable advice to transfer  his occupational pensions to a SIPP and invest in 
the Sustain scheme.  In  broad terms this should  be done by comparing the transfer values of 
Mr Ss SIPP  with the transfer values his pensions would have had if he had not transferred 
them and the payment  of compensation into the pension to make good any shortfall.   
Quilter should also pay compensation  in respect  of any future  SIPP fees as these would not 
otherwise have been incurred.  And  pay Mr S £500  compensation for the trouble and upset 
he has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice to transfer his occupational  pensions to a 
SIPP to invest in the unsuitable  investment which has led to significant  losses  in his pension 
fund.
Mr S agrees  with my provisional  decision and suggested redress.   Quilter does not but it 
does not have any further comments  it wishes to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whether we can 
consider Mr Ss complaint.  
My view on jurisdiction  was based on my view of s.39 FSMA based on the case law relating 
to that provision and its predecessor  s.44 Financial Services  Act 1986.  At the time of my 
provisional decision the most recent  case was the High Court decision in Anderson v Sense 
Network.  Since then an appeal in that case has been heard by the Court  of Appeal and it 
has issued its decision agreeing with the earlier decision.   
I have considered the Court of Appeal in Anderson v Sense Network as part of my review  of 
this complaint and I do not consider that the position  has changed for this complaint.  My 
Ref: DRN45524995view remains  that I can consider this complaint as explained in my provisional decision and 
above. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   And  my view remains that the advice to 
Mr S was unsuitable as explained in my provisional  decision  and summarised  above.
how things  should be put right
Quilter should, as far as possible, put Mr S into the position he would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice  to transfer his occupational  pensions to a SIPP to invest in the Sustain 
investment.  Quilter should  do so as follows:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mr Ss transferred pensions  as at the date of this 
decision had they not been  transferred  to the SIPPs.  
Quilter should ask those  pension  providers  to calculate the notional transfer values they 
would have applied  as at the date of this decision had Mr S not transferred his pensions  but 
instead remained invested/members of those  schemes.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ss SIPP at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ss SIPP so that the transfer  values are increased by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ss SIPP, Quilter should pay the compensation  
as a cash sum to Mr S. But had it been  possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. So the total amount should  be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr S is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional  allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the notional  allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mr S to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Intrinsic given  suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr S 
continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Quilter should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr S back in the position he would have been in. 
Ref: DRN45524996So, to provide certainty to both parties,  I think its fair that Quilter pays  Mr S an upfront lump  
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees), 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  This should provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Quilter may ask Mr S to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the investment  in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party  as a result 
of the investment. That undertaking  should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount they may receive. Quilter will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. 
If it asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded by my 
decision may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Quilter  fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr S should  then have  the option of trying to cancel the 
investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed.
Mr S should  also assign to Quilter  his right to make any claim against the SIPP provider  to 
Quilter if it wishes.
5. Pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr S has been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss 
of, in effect, all of his pension  fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for 
that upset.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  and require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay fair compensation 
to him as set out above.  The compensation should be paid within 28 days of Quilter  
Financial Services Ltd being  notified  of Mr Ss acceptance of my decision.  If it is not, interest  
should be paid on the compensation due at the rate of 8% simple interest from the date of 
this decision until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552499