K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has made this complaint about  Romilly Associates IFA Limited.  She says that her late 
husband was advised to buy an annuity with a five year guarantee  period  when  he should 
have been advised to take a ten year guarantee. 
background
Mrs G was the beneficiary of Mr Gs annuity and is an executor in his estate. Mr G took 
advice from Romilly in 2012. He was approaching 60 and held a pension plan which was 
payable from 60. The fund value at the time was just over £68,000.
A fact find was completed which recorded  that Mr G wanted to maximise  income  by not 
taking the tax-free  cash  available  and discounting a spouses pension. Mr G was retired  and 
had savings with his wife. He had some health issues.  It was noted that Mrs G had 
preserved pension  benefits from a former employers scheme.
Although it was noted that Mr G wanted to maximise  income and wanted an annuity without 
any guarantee period, the adviser recommended a five year guarantee to provide some 
protection. The adviser reasoned that Mr G would receive his State Pension in five years 
time and would also have further income options with another  pension plan which matured at 
age 65.
Mr Gs annual income from the annuity  was £4,891.08 from June 2012. The income was 
based on a single life, level, payable monthly in advance for a minimum of five years. This 
annuity income had been  enhanced due to Mr Gs health.
Sadly, Mr G died suddenly in October  2015. The income payments were  paid until the end of 
the five year guarantee period in 2017 but then stopped. Mrs G then complained  to Romilly 
saying there  was a failure to give information about  the option of a ten year guarantee 
period.
Romilly rejected the complaint saying that the five year guarantee period matched Mr Gs 
objectives to maximise  income. The adviser had discussed all options with Mr G. He hadnt 
wanted any guarantee period but the adviser persuaded him to take the five year guarantee 
option. There were other resources for income  if he died during the guarantee period. Mrs G 
would also receive  the fund value  of the other  pension plan if this happened.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an adjudicator.
The adjudicator noted that the regulatory obligation on an adviser included only making  
recommendations to clients that are suitable taking account of their personal and financial 
circumstances and objectives. In order to assess the suitable options, the adviser should 
explore all options available so that a fully informed  decision could be made.
The adjudicator accepted  that the inclusion of escalation and spouses pension  within  the 
annuity would have significantly reduced  the annuity  income. So she was satisfied that 
Romilly was not wrong to discount these options.  Mr and Mrs G held savings  on deposit and 
Mrs G did have a pension  in her own right.
However, the adjudicator said that Romilly should  then have explored  all options for a level, 
single life annuity for Mr G. She noted  that although they have  said that they discussed  the 
Ref: DRN45555352ten year guarantee option with Mr G, there is no evidence to show  that they quantified the 
income for this option.
The adjudicator felt that without knowing the actual amount of income for the ten year 
guarantee option, Mr G wasnt  in a position  to make a fully informed decision.
The annuity  provider was asked to quote  the annual income  that would have been available  
for a ten year guarantee annuity in 2012.  The annual income was quoted  at £4,825.57. The 
adjudicator noted  that this income  is lower than the five year option  by £5.46 per month  
gross. Mrs G confirmed that Mr G was a non-taxpayer when in receipt of the annuity income. 
The adjudicator also noted that Mr G wasnt in the best of health based  on the annuity 
application and the annuity  income  offered was significantly higher than the standard rate. 
The enhancement  was not insignificant and suggested Mr Gs life expectancy was not 
average.
The adjudicator decided that Romilly ought  to have quantified the ten year guarantee option  
and, if it had done, it should  have  recommended  this. She felt that given the relatively  
modest reduction in income, Mr G would have accepted this. So she upheld  the complaint 
and directed how redress should  be calculated.
Romilly didnt agree. It said that Mrs G wasnt its client and that its advice to Mr G wasnt  
unsuitable. The annuity with a ten year guarantee was more expensive,  wasnt desired and 
wasnt needed. It was perverse to suggest that Mr G would  have paid for a product he didnt 
want or need and one that wouldnt have benefitted him. A ten year guarantee was more 
expensive in real terms and the fact that the five year guarantee transpired  not to be the 
most appropriate product didnt mean it was inappropriate.
The adjudicator considered the response  but wasnt persuaded to change  her view.
So, as no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence  including the points Romilly has made  in response to 
the view, I do find that I agree with the adjudicator and I uphold this complaint.
Whilst Mrs G wasnt  a client of Romilly she was a beneficiary of the annuity and she is also 
an executor of the estate.
Its clear from the contemporaneous  documents that at the outset Mr G wished to maximise 
his income. He did have  another  personal  pension to call upon  at 65 along with his state  
pension and so this pension wasnt his only resource. He had savings with Mrs G and she 
had some pension  provision of her own. However,  once Romilly introduced the possibility of 
a five year guarantee to Mr G he seems to have been persuaded by it. He accepted a 
reduction in income  for the additional security this guarantee provided for Mrs G. So it seems  
that he was prepared to accept advice  and move away from his apparent initial  commitment  
to maximise his income.  His wish to maximise  income doesnt appear to have been 
absolute.
Ref: DRN45555353Theres no evidence that Romilly quantified the income that could be provided by an annuity 
with a ten year guarantee. Had it done  so, this would have been quoted at £4,825.57 for the 
same purchase price.  The five year guarantee annuity paid £4,891.08. So the difference  was 
only £65.51 per year gross or less than £5.50 per month or £1.25 per week. 
So whilst the ten year guarantee was more  expensive,  the difference was small. And the 
potential benefit  from taking a reduced income was, at best,  the potential gain of five years 
payments of £4,825.57, a total of over £24,000. 
In my opinion, if these figures had been  available to Romilly, I think the adviser probably 
ought to have recognised the apparent value in the annuity with a ten year guarantee  when 
compared to the five year guarantee. Even though  the ten year guarantee period didnt 
match Mr Gs specific needs, I think the value of it was such that it ought to have been 
recommended to Mr G. 
Had it been recommended,  Ive very little doubt  that Mr G would have accepted  that 
recommendation. As Ive said, it seems that hed already been persuaded to move away 
from maximising his income  towards  securing a guarantee, and once hed made that 
compromise I think he would have taken the further step of buying the ten year guarantee 
annuity. The reduction in income of the ten year guarantee annuity  was so small, almost  
negligible, that he would probably have considered that it represented good vale and that it 
made sense  to buy it.
Ive considered what Romilly has said in response to the view but I dont agree. Whilst its 
true that the ten year guarantee came, in effect,  with additional cost, the reduction in income  
was so small particularly  when measured against the potential benefit, that it represented 
good value. Whilst  the additional  guarantee may not have  been  needed, Mr G had been 
persuaded to take a five year guarantee, and I think that if the adviser had been in 
possession of the relevant annuity values (as he ought to have been), the ten year 
guarantee would have  been considered to represent  value and probably would have been 
recommended. I think it ought  to have been recommended  in those circumstances.
And I dont  agree that Mr G wouldnt have benefitted  from the additional guarantee. Although 
there would be no direct  financial benefit  to him, he would have had the knowledge of the 
additional security  this potentially provided for Mrs G. That was clearly of some importance 
to him given  he did buy an annuity with a five year guarantee. The suggestion that his 
receiving no direct financial benefit meant there  was not even  the slightest benefit to him, 
would by extension, suggest that no-one would ever have reason to make provision for a 
spouse pension  or guarantee period. And thats  not the case. There  is a benefit  even if it 
isnt a direct  financial  one.
So for these reasons I uphold this complaint. The advice to Mr G was unsuitable due to the 
omission of information  about a ten year guarantee annuity. Had Mr G been  fully informed, 
Im satisfied that he would  have  made  different choices and purchased an annuity  with a ten 
year guarantee period.
Putting things right
The aim of this redress is to place Mrs G in the position he would be in but for the unsuitable 
advice Mr G was given.  To put things right Romilly must take the following steps:
Ref: DRN455553541.Romilly should compare the actual income  received from the annuity  during the five 
year guarantee period and calculate  any gain when compared to the lower  income  
that would  have been received from the ten year guarantee annuity. This is £327.55 
(5 x 65.51).  Romilly may deduct  this sum from the loss calculated  in (2) below.
2.Past loss. Mrs G has lost out on annuity payments from June 2017 to date. Romilly 
should calculate the payments Mrs G would have received, per month, based on the 
annual annuity  of £4825.57 and taking into account Mrs Gs income tax status.
3.Interest should  be added to each of the lost payments at 8 per cent simple from the 
date the payments would have been made  up to the date of settlement. This rate of 
interest reflects the loss of use of the money.    
4.Future loss. Romilly should  also pay a sum to reflect the future  loss based on the 
annuity of £4825.57  which  would  have been  payable up to June 2022. Romilly may 
take into account Mrs Gs tax status and compensate for the net loss. It may also 
apply an appropriate  discount rate to reflect accelerated receipt.  
5.And Romilly must  also pay Mrs G £250 to reflect the distress  and upset she has 
suffered as result of potentially missing out on this income.
I understand Mrs G has been  a non-tax  payer from 2017 to date.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Romilly Associates IFA Limited. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above. It must  provide a copy of its calculation in a clear and concise 
format to Mrs G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4555535