K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains about information Lloyds Bank  PLC gave him regarding  his loan account. 
Background
Mr S had a loan with Lloyds that fell into arrears  and was passed  to its collections team. A 
payment plan was agreed in August 2018  which meant no interest would be applied.  On
25 December 2018 Lloyds wrote to Mr S and said he needed to clear his arrears to avoid  a 
default. 
On 8 January  2019 Mr S called  Lloyds  and complained. He explained  that hed already 
consented to a default being applied to his loan so couldnt understand why hed received 
the 25 December  2018 letter. 
Lloyds looked  into Mr S concerns and agreed  something had gone wrong. Lloyds 
responded to Mr S complaint  on 9 January 2019  and paid Mr S £60 for the service he 
received and £9 for call costs. Lloyds said it should have explained the process for defaulting 
a loan account better. Lloyds said it should have sent Mr S important  letters setting out the 
default process earlier. But because of an error at Lloyds it didnt write to Mr S until 
25 December 2018. Lloyds final response  confirmed Mr S loan had been transferred to its 
recoveries team. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and explained he spent several hours  dealing  with 
the matter on the phone. Mr S also told us how upsetting the situation had been. Mr S asked 
for £300 to resolve his complaint but the investigator  thought  Lloyds existing offer was 
reasonable. Mr S didnt  agree so his complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  Mr S has other  products with 
Lloyds but this complaint is about  his loan. 
Lloyds has accepted that it failed  to follow the correct process  in the run up to defaulting  
Mr S loan. There was an issue setting up the payment plan originally which  appears to have 
impacted the length of time it took Lloyds to send its formal demand and default notice. As a 
result, Lloyds sent Mr S a letter on 25 December 2018 setting out in full what he owed. 
I agree  that the information Lloyds  sent Mr S was somewhat confusing  especially  when  
considering he had already confirmed his agreement to the default. Mr S says the letter was 
particularly distressing as it was received  during the holiday  period. 
I appreciate Mr S point,  but theres  nothing in the rules  businesses operate  under  that says 
Lloyds cant contact customers about their accounts  during the holiday  period. And whilst I 
note Mr S was upset and confused, the situation  was clarified relatively  quickly, during his 
call with Lloyds on 8 January 2019.  So the period in question is reasonably  short. 
When Mr S spoke  with Lloyds on 8 January 2019  it wasnt immediately able to say what  had 
happened. But the complaint handler later contacted Mr S and explained why it had written 
to him on 25 December 2018.  The complaint handler offered Mr S £60 for the distress  
Lloyds error  had caused plus £9 call costs. 
Ref: DRN48985122Mr S says that he spent  many hours  on the phone trying to deal with his loan account. And I 
understand that he will have spent a lot of time talking with Lloyds when trying to arrange the 
payment plan and discussing financial difficulties. But I dont think that means Lloyds has 
treated him unfairly. Ultimately, Mr S was discussing the affordability of his loan payments 
and what that meant  for the account. Conversations of that nature are involved and time 
consuming and I think thats  demonstrated by the length  of time Mr S spent on the phone. 
Lloyds agrees it provided Mr S with unclear information and has paid him £60 for the service 
it provided and £9 towards  call costs. Ive listened  to the available  calls and looked at 
everything provided by both Mr S and Lloyds. Having done so, Im satisfied the £69 
settlement Lloyds has paid fairly reflects the impact  of its mistake on Mr S. As Im satisfied 
Lloyds has dealt with Mr S complaint fairly,  Im not telling it to take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4898512