K820x#14complaint
Mr Q says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr Q bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold  this complaint. This gave 
Mr Q and Canada Square the chance to respond before I made my final decision. 
Neither Mr Q nor Canada Square  had anything further to add. So this final decision is in line 
with my provisional one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Qs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Qs complaint because:
Mr Q bought  the PPI online during his credit card application. He was given the option to 
select or decline  PPI and had to indicate his choice before he could continue  with the 
application. So I think Canada  Square made Mr Q aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr Q so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr Q about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr Q doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy  didnt  cover  and based  on what I know about his circumstances it looks like 
the policy  couldve  been useful to him. So I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
Ive taken into account Mr Qs comments,  including what hes said about  knowing he was to 
become a director of the company he was working for from the time he started working 
there. But these points dont change my conclusion. Mr Q has been unable to provide 
evidence from the time that shows he was guaranteed or knew he was to become a director  
at the time the PPI was sold.  And he didnt actually become  a director  until almost seven 
months later. So even  if hed been given  clear information about  how being a director would 
affect his ability to claim under the policy, I dont  think this wouldve made a difference  to his 
decision to buy it.
Ref: DRN48096152my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4809615