K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim for blocked
drains, under their buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to any of their appointed  representatives  or agents.
background
Mr and Mrs S moved into their house in March 2018. Shortly after moving in, they noticed a
funny smell coming from their drains.
They arranged for the drains  to be unblocked  by a drainage company and sent the invoice to
AXA, so they could consider their claim. AXA sent their own experts to assess  the drains.
Following the experts report AXA declined the claim. They  said that the damage had been
caused by tree root ingress, which had been present before the cover with them  started.
They also said that the homebuyers report that Mr and Mrs S had received in October 2017
suggested there was a problem with the drains and Mr and Mrs S hadnt taken any
preventative action.
Mr and Mrs S complained to AXA about the decision to decline the claim. AXA responded
and didnt change  their mind. They also said that Mr and Mrs S hadnt  taken reasonable care
when buying the house, based on the findings of the homebuyers report.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service.  Our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. She
said that she thought the damage  to the drains had been caused  before AXA started
covering their new home. She also said the homebuyers  report should have alerted
Mr and Mrs S to the damage  to their drains, so she didnt feel it was appropriate  to make
AXA meet their claim.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, it was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2019. It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
Mr and Mrs S asked  AXA to change the address  on their policy to cover their new home on
26 March 2018.  The policy  covered  buildings  and included accidental damage  to drains.
AXA have said that the damage  to the drains  was caused by tree root ingress,  which 
happened before  Mr and Mrs S moved  in and transferred their household insurance. I accept 
that the tree root ingress would have been  going  on for some  time and almost certainly 
before Mr and Mrs S moved into the house.  But Mr and Mrs S didnt notice the foul smell in
the house until a few days after moving into it. So, even though the drains may have been
damaged by the tree roots over a period of time, I dont think the drains stopped functioning
until after Mr and Mrs S moved in. The smell would have been noticeable almost as soon  as
they became blocked and stopped working.  I appreciate this was only shortly  after
Mr and Mrs S moved in. But I think its reasonable to say the blockage and smell occurred in
the short space  of time between Mr and Mrs S moving in and when they noticed the smell
from the drains for the first time.  Because of this, I think AXA were wrong to decline the
claim. This is because  the damage Mr and Mrs S are claiming for is what Id describe as loss
of function. What I mean by this is that the drain  only stopped working  after Mr and Mrs S
moved in. Up to that point it was doing what is was supposed to do. It may have been
Ref: DRN49958112slightly damaged  by tree roots forcing  open  joints slightly, but it was nonetheless functioning.
But it wasnt  this damage that caused  Mr and Mrs S to claim.  The damage they are claiming
for is the loss of function when the pipe blocked  due to the tree roots catching debris and the
drain eventually  blocking so that waste was not able to flow away. I appreciate to repair this
damage, new drain pipe or a lining may have been  needed. But this was necessary  to do a
lasting and effective  repair  to fix the loss of function  to the drain pipes Mr and Mrs S are
responsible for as homeowners,  so I think its fair and reasonable that this is covered by AXA
under Mr and Mrs Ss policy. Ill return to which part of the drains Mr and Mrs S are
responsible for and what AXA should pay in light of this later on.
I understand that AXA believe  that the amount  Mr and Mrs S paid to have their drains
repaired was excessive.  And that some of the damage is the responsibility of the local water
authority. But I also must consider if AXA would have accepted  the claim had they been
asked to attend prior to Mr and Mrs S arranging for the drains  to be fixed. And considering
their reasons  for declining the claim, Im satisfied  they would have taken the same decision if
theyd attended  the house while the drains  were still blocked. Had that happened,
Mr and Mrs S would still have had to pay what they did to have their drains unblocked and
repaired, so I think  its fair for AXA to reimburse Mr and Mrs S for this.
I think it is worth me adding the homebuyers report was a comprehensive review of all 
aspects of the house. It gave each area a rating,  dependant on whether the surveyor  felt 
immediate attention was needed  to a specific area. Any parts of the house that had immediate 
concerns came with recommendations from the surveyor along with a rating of 3  meaning 
the defects were serious and needed  to be repaired,  replaced  or investigated immediately.
The drainage at Mr and Mrs S house was given a rating of 2 by the surveyor. A 2 rating is
defined in the report as:
Defects that need repairing or replacing but are not considered  to be either serious or
urgent. The property must be maintained  in the normal way.
The report  then goes  on to say about  the drains specifically:
there is a cast iron soil and vent to the property. This is within  the porch area.  This required 
redecoration throughout. There  was no inspection chamber on site that we were  able to 
observe. Your legal adviser should  make enquiries whether there have been any previous  
problems with the underground drainage system. Should you require any further information you 
should instruct a drainage  contractor  to report further, possibly by providing a CCTV survey.
When they received  the surveyors report Mr and Mrs S made sure to follow  the
recommendations made in the report.  As the report said that Mr and Mrs S should make
enquiries to find out if there had been  any previous  problems with the underground  drainage,
they asked their solicitor  to speak to the previous owners. The previous owners confirmed
there had been  no problems.
So, Mr and Mrs S took the advice  given in the report  and made  enquiries  about any previous
problems. I think they did as much as they could be expected  to do based  on the report.
In summary,  I think the damage Mr and Mrs S are claiming for happened after AXA started
covering their home.  So, I think it should  meet their claim in accordance  with the policy terms
and conditions.
Ref: DRN49958113Moving on to what AXA should pay. I can see Mr and Mrs S paid for repairs  to pipes which  AXA 
say werent their responsibility.  And this seems to be because the drainage company theyd 
already used when they made  their claim hadnt flagged the fact that the water provider may be 
responsible for some  of the pipes. In view of this, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
make AXA pay for the repairs to these sections of pipe. So, if AXA can let me know what parts 
they think the water provider were responsible for and how much they think it cost I will consider  
the amount AXA should  pay on the claim and set this out in my final decision.
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision.
AXA also accepted the decision.  They  havent  provided any evidence  to confirm which 
sections of the drain repairs are the responsibility  of Mr and Mrs S local water provider. AXA 
have agreed to settle the claim in its entirety based on the invoice provided  by Mr and Mrs S.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im changing my 
provisional decision slightly. 
I said that I didnt think  it was fair and reasonable for AXA to pay for all the repair  costs  if they 
could show me which  sections they felt were the responsibility of Mr and Mrs S water 
provider. AXA havent done that. Theyve  accepted the claim in its entirety and agreed to settle 
the total amount. Due to the lack of any evidence to the contrary, I think  this is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. Im telling  AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £4,692 for the repair works carried out to their drains;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs S paid the 
invoice to the date this amount is paid.  *
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AXA Insurance  UK Plc deducts  more 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much has been taken off. AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4995811