K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a caravan he obtained through a hire purchase  agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited is not of satisfactory quality. He wants  Black Horse  to accept his 
rejection of the caravan.
background
Mr A obtained a new caravan in August 2017,  financed  through a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse.
The following  day he had to return it to the supplier because of a problem with the electrics.  
This was fixed while Mr A waited.
After towing the caravan to a site, Mr A noticed lines on one of the panels.  He reported this 
to the supplier who told him they were likely to be build lines.
The following  year,  on removing the covers, Mr A noticed there was damage above the door 
and the lines on the panel had got worse.  He found  a dip in the roof. When he reported this 
to the supplier he was told this was common in hot weather and would go back  to normal  
when the weather cooled. He also reported a crack in the shower tray.
Mr A took the caravan  for its first service  in September  2018  and asked the supplier to put 
right the problems. Mr A declined to take the caravan back because he wasnt  happy that 
required repairs had been carried  out.
The caravan  was inspected by the manufacturer who concluded the damage was most likely 
due to the caravan being driven over a pothole or rough  ground. When Mr A complained to 
Black Horse,  it arranged an independent  report which  came  to a similar conclusion.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt  
conclude that a fault existed when the caravan was supplied  so she didnt  think  Black Horse  
was responsible for the cost of repairs, or was obliged to accept Mr As rejection of the 
caravan.
Mr A didnt agree. He said,  in summary, that the caravan is a touring caravan and should be 
built to tow with no problems. Damage shouldnt have occurred during one short journey  
and, as a professional driver, he was certain that he hadnt driven  over a pot hole.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN47520172The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach  of contract 
has taken place.
In deciding whether  a vehicle is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its 
age when it was supplied and how long after supply the fault materialised.
In this case the caravan was brand new so its reasonable  to expect it to be free from any 
faults. On the first night, at a local site, Mr A found that he couldnt  turn off the lights,  without 
turning off the electric entirely. He returned the caravan to the supplying garage the next day 
and it carried out repairs. Whilst  I understand this was inconvenient,  the repairs fixed the 
problem so I think this was a reasonable remedy in the circumstances.
The following  day, Mr A towed the caravan around 10 miles to another site where  he 
intended to pitch  the caravan permanently. Once  parked, he noticed lines on the side panel. 
He phoned the supplying  dealer who said these were build lines. Mr A was not entirely 
happy as he viewed similar caravans to his own and couldnt see these lines. He sent photos  
to the supplying dealer, but no further  action seems to have been taken by either  party.
The following  summer, Mr A noticed that the lines had got worse,  there was damage above 
the door, the roof had sunk and there was a crack in the shower  tray. He reported this and 
provided a list of the problems when he returned  the caravan for its first service in 
September 2018.
The supplying garage returned the caravan  to the manufacturer. It said the damage was 
outside of its warranty  because it was due to wear and tear  most likely  caused by driving 
over a pot hole.
When Mr A complained to Black  Horse, it arranged an independent inspection of the 
caravan. This arrived at a similar conclusion  to the manufacturer.
Mr A says he drives for a living, that the caravan is intended to tow so should be robust 
enough to withstand dips and bumps,  and that he didnt  hit a pothole  in the one short  journey 
before he noticed  the damage. I have considered what hes said carefully, together  with the 
photographs that hes supplied. But, in deciding whether  I think  the caravan was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied, I need  to place weight on the report supplied  by 
Black Horse   because this was carried out by an independent expert. With regard to the 
faults Mr A reported, it concluded as follows:
shower tray
The engineer couldnt find a fault with the shower tray. I think  this is probably because  it had 
already been satisfactorily repaired.  So I dont find there is an obligation on Black Horse to 
do any more.
Ref: DRN47520173roof
The engineer confirmed there  was a dip in the roof. It concluded  this was probably 
characteristic of the design   to allow for flexibility during towing and to accommodate roof 
fittings. He recommended  the manufacturer inspect the roof to check that the depression 
was within  its tolerance.
Ive seen a copy  of the manufacturers report. This confirms there  is a dip of 8 to 10mm  (at 
its deepest point). But it says this is within manufacturing tolerances.  So I dont find theres a 
fault.
ripples and dents on the side panels
The engineer concluded that this was a characteristic of the design. He said:
Although  an issue is present, there are raised areas  to the side wails where  the internal wall 
timbers are pronounced  on both sides of the caravan. However, this Is not a fault This is as 
a result of the pressing of the wall panels  in the manufacturing process and is known as 
"telegraphing" This is an ordinary characteristic of the design and building process, it is often 
more obvious  on caravans  with grey or silver side walls such  as this model.
As no fault has been found, I cant conclude that Black Horse  is responsible  for taking  any 
action.
damage above the door
The engineer concluded:
The crease is synonymous  with percussion from a road trauma  or impact such  as a pothole  
strike or kerbing. This Is a wear and tear issue that Is most often considered an insurance 
policy notifiable incident. The issue is cosmetic  and can be filled and repaired by a coach 
works body  shop.
Whilst Ive taken into account that Mr A didnt tow the caravan very far and that he feels sure 
there was no impact,  based on the conclusion of the independent report, I think  its more 
likely that the damage above the door wasnt present when the caravan was supplied  and 
that its been caused by impact.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A, but for the reasons Ive explained I wont be ordering Black 
Horse to accept his rejection of the caravan or to pay for any repairs.  I understand Mr A may 
be able to make an insurance claim for the damage above the door. Hes mentioned  that he 
may decide to pursue his complaint through other means. And if he chooses  not to accept 
my decision,  he will of course be free to do so.
Ref: DRN47520174my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4752017