K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that she received unsuitable  advice  from Rossmore Financial Services 
(Rossmore) to transfer her Occupational  Pension  Scheme (OPS) benefits  to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  She also raised  some concerns about how her complaint was 
handled.
background
In 2015, Mrs C approached Rossmore for advice on her OPS, she says she wanted to find 
out what her options  were. Around  that time there had been a lot press relating to such 
schemes. At that time, she was 54 years old and in good health. 
A Financial Planning  Questionnaire  recorded that: 
Mrs C was not (then) currently looking to access her pensions but would be between 
60 and 65.
She had two children, one was still financially dependent and expected  to remain  so 
for four years.
She had an annual income of around £35,000  from her two jobs. 
It was her intention to retire from her employed  position at 60 but to continue in her 
self-employed role until 65. 
She had an interest-only  mortgage  of around £121,000 with 15 years  remaining on it. 
She had savings in cash-based instruments of around £130,000. 
Previously Mrs C had typically taken advice  in relation to financial matters. 
She had little or no experience in investments. 
The Investment  Knowledge and Experience & Capacity for Loss Assessment completed 
confirmed that Mrs C had some experience with mainstream investments (predominantly 
cash-based) but did not have much  knowledge  in the area.  
A Lifestyle  Cashflow Model  Questionnaire was completed,  in answer to the questions posed 
Mrs C confirmed, amongst other  things,  that: 
She was trying to plan for a secure and enjoyable retirement.
Pensions were a major part of her retirement planning. 
At 60 she wanted to stop working  one of her jobs but continue  in her self-employed 
role. 
After retirement it was her plan to rely on income  from her self-employed 
role/business, her pension and the investments she had built up.
She planned to use her liquid cash in retirement and leave the remainder to her 
children. 
On 30 October 2015, a Pension Transfer Analysis  was prepared for Mrs C in relation to each 
of the two schemes she was considering transferring. The critical yield on the scheme with a 
transfer value  of around £176,000 was listed  as 19.6% for the full pension without tax-free 
cash and 14.3% for the reduced  pension with tax-free cash.  
The projected income available from the personal pension at retirement  assuming it enjoyed  
low, middle, or high rates of growth were  £4,313,  £6,166 and £8,649 respectively as 
Ref: DRN42124152opposed to a pension of £13,084 available under the scheme (was £11,563.91  at the time of 
the advice). 
The critical yield for the other scheme  with a transfer value of around £110,000 was listed  as 
14.9% as at 60. The projected  income available from the personal pension  at retirement 
assuming it enjoyed low, middle, or high rates of growth were  £2,459,  £3,539 and £4,997  
respectively as opposed to a pension of £6,412  available under the scheme.  
Rossmore produced  a suitability report on 17 December 2015, it set out Mrs Cs basic  
circumstances and objectives, it noted:
She was employed.  
She was 54 years  old and wanted  to retire at 60.
She had two pensions both with the local authority, the combined transfer value of 
these was around £285,000.
She held around £130,000 in cash.
She wanted flexibility in her retirement. 
She was interested in discussing the impact of the pension  freedoms  legislation  and 
the options available to her under it.
Annuities had been  discounted but she was interested in flexible drawdown. 
It went on to set out her requirements, amongst other things it said: 
After reviewing the information received, I established that as you require  your 
benefits to be passed onto your 2 children, and you want the flexibility  to control  
income and retirement  benefits I am happy to recommend  transferring  your Pension 
at this time.
Her attitude to risk was assessed  to be balanced overall but cautious  in relation to her 
pension. 
In relation to the transfer, the report set out that:
Generally the FCA [Financial  Conduct Authority] stance on transferring an 
Occupational Pension is that there  must be very sound reasons to transfer your 
safeguarded benefits.
And
I have recommended [name of provider] SIPP  because:
You will be able to receive regular annual reviews.
You will be able to hold all of your investments in the same  place,  reducing  
administration and paperwork.
You will have access to a wide range of investment funds and models and a wide 
range of investment managers.
You will have access to a wide range of investment funds and models from a 
variety of investment  managers which will ensure your assets are invested in a 
portfolio which  is managed in accordance with the volatility, return and maximum 
loss targets suitable for your risk profile.
Ref: DRN42124153If you are unhappy with the performance you receive from an investment 
manager you will be able to easily change investment  strategy.
The SIPP offered  by [name of provider] is a reasonable cost solution through  
which you can access all of the funds  and model portfolios available  on our Core 
Investment Matrix.
Investing in a SIPP direct with [name  of provider]  will likely be more cost effective 
than accessing  the [name of provider] Investment Platform  through a SIPP held 
with an alternative provider. The main reason for this is that other providers will 
apply their own charges for managing the SIPP wrapper, which  you would then 
pay in addition to the [name of provider] Investment  Platform fees.
The SIPP offers  access to Drawdown which is suitable for you.
Rossmore recommended  that all of Mrs Cs pension be invested in a single cautious fund of 
funds. The expected annualised return over a three-year period for a cautious portfolio listed 
by Rossmore was 4.5% to 6%.
The annual fees listed were: 
Platform Fee 0.35%
Weighted Fund Manager Charge  0.50%
SIPP Fee £100 + VAT
Drawdown Fee £150 + VAT 
Adviser Fees 1% (£2,850)
Mrs C also paid an implementation  fee of £1,425 to the adviser. 
The critical yield on one scheme was 15.4% with a hurdle  rate of 6.8%. This scheme was 
offering a pension  of £11,563 and a tax-free lump sum of £33,318.99. The critical yield 
established on the other scheme was 14.3% with a hurdle rate of 5.9%.  
complaint background
Mrs C complained to Rossmore in May 2019, amongst other things, she said:  
Her primary objective was to ensure  that she had a reliable pension.
She did not require  that her pension could  be passed on to her children, they would 
benefit from her house, savings  and life insurance in any case. 
She did not need to maximise the tax-free cash available to her. 
Taking her pension income flexibly was not a requirement and it was not explained to 
her that with such a modest pension it was potentially unrealistic to draw  her pension  
flexibly. 
She did not know much about pensions and had not discounted annuities. 
When she approached Rossmore it was her main objective to be advised as to the 
best course of action  to take with her OPS  she was reliant on that advice.
Rossmore reviewed Mrs Cs complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld. It said: 
It was understood,  at the time of the advice, that Mrs C wanted any remaining funds 
in the pension after her death  to benefit  her children  rather than being retained by the 
scheme. 
Ref: DRN42124154The transfer gave  Mrs C access to increased tax-free cash and this became 
available at 55, which was in line with her objectives at the time.  
The flexibility afforded by the SIPP in terms of how Mrs C could take her benefits 
allowed her to tailor her income to cover any shortfall in income after she stopped 
working one of her jobs at 60, in line with her plans  as discussed at the time. This 
would not have been possible if she had retained her OPS benefits as only one of 
these schemes became  available  at 60.
Whilst Mrs C had limited experience investing,  she discussed  the topic  with ease and 
the questions  she asked showed she understood the conversation. 
It had spoken  to Mrs C after the transfer about  how the pension was invested,  a 
number of things  got in the way of regular meetings, but they did meet  in 2017 and 
discussed moving towards  a more balanced approach. Subsequently 30% of Mrs Cs 
pension was switched  to a new fund. Later (in 2018) it suggested another fund 
switch, moving Mrs C further towards a more balanced approach.  Mrs C did not 
implement this and said she was considering switching advisers. 
It never said that the investment  growth  enjoyed by the SIPP would exceed  the 
critical yield or hurdle  rate  the transfer was considered suitable based  on Mrs Cs 
objectives. These were  to have  flexibility in taking income  at retirement and to be 
able to leave any residual fund left on death  to her children rather  than this being 
retained by the scheme. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs C referred her complaint  to this service. 
Rossmore submitted the documentation referenced above and reiterated  the arguments  it 
made in its final response. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should  be upheld.  He did not 
think that the advice was suitable and disagreed that the reasons  given  by the business 
justified the advice to transfer.  
Rossmore disagreed  with the investigators  findings. I have read its submissions in their 
entirety, here I have  briefly summarised  the key points: 
Mrs C approached it with the intention of transferring her OPS. 
She could not have  retired  from one of the two schemes at 60. 
She wanted to have  the flexibility to use her pension to top up her income from her 
self-employed role up to her personal allowance to avoid paying income tax. 
If she had not transferred her pension, her income would have dropped  by 60% at 
60.
The complaint  is prompted only by fund performance. 
Mrs C had an interest-only  mortgage  of £115,000 which was due to mature by 2025, 
she held £130,000 in deposit type accounts but these were unlikely to grow  
significantly by then.  
If she had not transferred, she could only have taken benefits from the scheme which  
was payable from 65 at 60 if she accepted  a reduced income. 
Despite remaining of the opinion that the advice was suitable, in order  to resolve  the 
complaint, Rossmore offered to pay Mrs C £50,000 without admission of liability. 
We sent Rossmores submissions to Mrs C and she responded declining  the offer.  In 
summary, she said: 
Ref: DRN42124155Rossmores arguments had been addressed and it had not raised any new points or 
submitted new information. 
She did not approach Rossmore intent on transferring, she wanted to explore her 
options. 
She intended to leave  her employed  position  at 60 but to continue her self-employed  
work. Her income  would not have dropped significantly as she could have increased 
her self-employed work. This income would  already have exceeded her personal 
allowance.
Her investments  were cautious and could  never  have performed well enough to 
justify the transfer. 
She already  had enough to pay off her mortgage  at the time of advice and as her 
savings were in excess of the amount  needed, she did not need these monies to 
grow. 
She sought advice  on the best option for her pension, she did not need to leave her 
pension to her children; they would benefit from her other  assets. 
The only investments she held were high street ISAs, so she had almost  no 
experience investing,  and she trusted Rossmores advice. 
Our investigator confirmed that he still thought that the complaint should be upheld, he said:  
It was not Mrs Cs intention to retire completely at 60, she wanted to leave her main  
job and focus  on her self-employed role  this is likely to have increased her income 
from the latter to sufficiently cover her needs  until retirement. 
Whilst Mrs C may not have complained if her pension had performed exceptionally, 
this does not mean that the advice was suitable,  the critical yields required to match 
her previous benefits were in the region of 15%.  
He did not think Mrs C having an interest-only mortgage meant that she was not risk 
averse, she had sufficient funds to pay off her mortgage.
It is likely  that anyone  would be unhappy  at the prospect of dying before receiving the 
full benefits of their pension and the remainder  being  retained  by the scheme  but, 
this was not sufficient  reason for her to transfer. Mrs C has confirmed her children 
were not reliant  on her financially and would benefit  from her other assets.  
Later Rossmore contacted Mrs C and made a revised offer of £75,000 without accepting 
liability. Mrs C did not accept the offer. Because agreement could not be reached,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN42124156The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position.  I 
have considered these submissions  in their entirety  and I am grateful to them for taking the 
time to submit these.  However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses 
on what I consider to be the central  issues as a discourtesy. The purpose  of this decision is 
not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings  and reasons for 
reaching them.
The advice for Mrs C to transfer  her OPS benefits  was unsuitable.  In light of Mrs Cs 
circumstances, there  was not sufficient justification for the loss of guarantees and increased  
risk resulting  from the transfer. 
COBS 19.1.6 G sets out that when advising a retail client  on an OPS transfer the adviser 
should start from the position that the transfer  is unsuitable. And should only find the transfer 
to be suitable  if it can clearly evidence that the transfer is in the clients  best interests.
The critical yield required simply to match the benefits available  under the OPS  was just 
under 15%. This is significantly higher than the highest rate used  for projecting investment 
growth set by the regulator. Whilst there is no absolute link, to likely achieve the investment 
growth required, on balance Mrs C would have to invest in relatively  high-risk  funds and/or 
investments  even  then,  I think it unlikely that Mrs Cs pension would enjoy such a 
significant growth rate. Based on what we know about Mrs Cs circumstances, attitude  to risk 
and investment experience, I am not persuaded that she had the requisite attitude  to risk or 
capacity for loss for it to be suitable for her to employ the kind of investment strategy 
required to potentially achieve this with her pension provision.
The potential for increased tax-free cash did not make it suitable for Mrs C to transfer.  I think 
that there  are steps that Mrs C could  have taken to address any concerns  she had about 
repaying her mortgage without putting her pension  at risk. I also note she already had 
enough savings  to pay off her mortgage  in full. 
I can understand that the prospect of taking benefits  flexibly  and ensuring that Mrs Cs 
children could inherit any pension provision she did not take advantage of in her lifetime 
would be an attractive proposition in principle. So, I do not doubt  that Mrs C may have been 
interested in these as benefits  of transferring,  but this does not make  the advice  suitable.  
The purpose of Mrs Cs pension was to provide her an income in retirement. Mrs C was in 
good health. I have not seen any evidence that Mrs C was concerned  about  ensuring that 
her children would  benefit from her pension. By the time Mrs C intended to retire, both 
children would not be financially dependent on her and Mrs C has told us that they would 
benefit from her other assets and life insurance.  
The evidence provided indicates that Mrs C only intended to stop one of her jobs at 60, she 
intended to continue her self-employed work, which was her own business.  She says that 
she could have increased her income  from this after retiring from her other job to cover some  
of the drop in her income. Also, Mrs C could have  accessed one of the schemes that she 
transferred from the age of 60, this would have provided tax-free cash and a modest  annual  
income. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that suitable advice would have been for Mrs C to 
retain her OPS benefits. 
Ref: DRN42124157It has not been argued that Mrs C was likely to disregard suitable advice from her financial  
adviser  but, for the sake of completeness, I did consider this. Having done so, I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mrs C would have listened to suitable advice  
and, in turn, that if Rossmore had given suitable advice, Mrs C would not have transferred 
her OPS benefits. 
So, I think that Rossmore should compensate Mrs C for any losses she may have suffered 
due to her transferring her OPS benefits  as a result  of its advice. I also think that in addition 
to any financial loss established by way of the below calculation, Mrs C has suffered distress  
and inconvenience  and that Rossmore should  compensate her for this.
fair compensation
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for the business to put Mrs C, as far as possible,  into the position she would  now 
be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
Rossmore must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision.
Rossmore may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mrs Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Cs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance implications,  it 
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs C 
within 90 days of the date Rossmore receives notification of her acceptance of my decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 
days, that it takes Rossmore  to pay Mrs C this compensation.
It is possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
Ref: DRN42124158period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest will not apply.
I also direct  Rossmore  to pay to Mrs C £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000,  I may recommend that Rossmore 
Financial Services pay the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Rossmore  Financial Services  should pay 
the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum  of £160,000 (including distress  
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance as set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I also recommend  that Rossmore Financial Services pays  Mrs C the balance.  I 
further recommend  interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for 
any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Rossmore Financial Services  to pay Mrs C from 
the date it receives  notification of her acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
If Mrs C accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Rossmore Financial 
Services. My recommendation  is not binding on Rossmore  Financial  Services .
Further, it is unlikely that Mrs C can accept  my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to her after the money award has been  paid.  Mrs C may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
my final decision
It is my final decision that Mrs Cs complaint  should be upheld. I direct Rossmore Financial 
Services to compensate Mrs C as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4212415