K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about how Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance  Limited handled and settled her 
claim she made under her home  insurance  policy for water  damage.
Mrs Rs son brought this complaint to our service on her behalf. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs R directly.
background
In February 2018  Mrs R renewed her buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. Prior to 
this date she had held insurance with Lloyds for over 17 years. On 18 August  2018 she 
discovered a burst  pipe in her larder. She contacted a plumber who attended her property 
and turned off the water. By this time water  had been flowing from the burst pipe for around 
three hours. 
Mrs R contacted Lloyds  to make a claim under  her home insurance  policy  for water  damage. 
Lloyds appointed a contractor, who attended  Mrs Rs property on 23 August 2018. Ill refer to 
this contractor as C.  
C agreed a leak had occurred. In the hallway it noticed there was water  staining to the 
floorboards and plaster on the lower  part of the walls, which was starting to blister.  C said a 
section of the skirting  would require replacement and decoration. And it noted that whilst the 
floorboards were wet they should dry out. The hallway  carpet  was wet and it had been cut up 
to the wet area. In the larder C said there was damage to the chipboard  floor and walls. The 
floor would need replacing  as would the skirting, which would also need to be painted. C had 
concerns about  replacing the wallpaper  in the larder because  the bricks  were uneven.
After its inspection C recommended  that Lloyds decline Mrs Rs claim as it thought the leak 
had been ongoing for some time. It thought the rotting floor,  water  migration  to the hall wall 
and bubbling  plaster work  suggested  the damage  may have  been  ongoing  for at least six 
months. So it had concerns that the damage could have been caused prior to Mrs Rs policy 
starting in February  2018. And it thought  Mrs R ought reasonably to have noticed the 
bubbling plaster work before the date she reported the damage to Lloyds.
Lloyds reviewed Cs report  and the photographs it had been provided  with, which showed 
widespread damage. After reviewing that evidence Lloyds felt it was difficult  to identify what 
caused the damage Mrs R had reported.
Lloyds said it declined  Mrs Rs claim because it thought  the water  damage had been caused 
by issues which had been ongoing  for some time.
When Mrs R saw Cs report she was unhappy  at the suggestion that she had presented  the 
claim as a fortuitous  loss close  to the inception  date. She complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she was persuaded that the damage had 
been caused over a period of time rather than by a sudden escape  of water. She didnt think 
Lloyds had acted  unfairly in declining  the claim. In relation to the handling  of the claim, the 
investigator agreed that some of the phrasing used  in Cs report  had caused distress and upset 
to Mrs R. She thought  the compensation already awarded by Lloyds for this was reasonable.   
Ref: DRN49421202Mrs R didnt agree. She felt that Cs report had been mis-interpreted because  it referred to 
pre-inception damage as a possibility  and not a certainty. She said she wasnt  claiming  for 
damage caused by pre-existing damp but only for damage caused  directly by the burst pipe.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was an escape of water  in Mrs Rs property  on 18 August  
2018. However, theres a disagreement between  Mrs R and Lloyds about what  damage  the 
leak caused. And theres also a dispute  about  the correct outcome of this claim.  
While a sudden escape of water is covered by Mrs Rs policy,  any loss or damage which  has 
been caused by a gradual leak where  the consumer ought reasonably  to have  been  aware  of 
the damage isnt. So, the crux of this complaint is whether the damage  reported by Mrs R was 
caused by the leak from the burst pipe or whether  it was due to a long standing  issue which 
she ought to have been aware of, and whether  Lloyds acted reasonably in declining  this claim. 
In determining this issue Ive carefully considered the evidence  from Mrs R and Lloyds. 
Ive looked at Cs report. It says this is possibly  pre-inception damage. The rotting floor and 
water migrating to the hall wall, plus the bubbling plaster work have all been ongoing for at 
least 6 months. The use of the word  possibly suggests that C wasnt certain about this.  
I have to reach a decision based  on the balance of probabilities. This means that in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the damage reported  by Mrs R was 
more likely than not to have been  caused by the burst pipe.
Ive looked at the photographs of the damage. The area around the window in the larder  is 
damaged with wallpaper peeling off and the ceiling is also damaged. There  is damp rising up 
the inside  and outside of the larder and the larder floor looks  as if it is disintegrating. The 
skirting board looks rotten and the plaster on the walls has bubbled.
Ive taken into account that the burst pipe gushed water for three hours  and that these 
photos were taken several days later.  Based  on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that water from 
the burst pipe leaked onto the carpet, causing the carpet  to become soaked. But taking into 
account the nature of the damage as shown  by the photos, I think its more  likely that long 
term water  exposure caused damage to the hallway and the carpet.  Im not persuaded that 
the burst pipe caused any more damage  than what was already there.
Mrs R has said that she didnt notice  any carpet  wetness or bubbling to the plasterwork 
before the pipe burst. Im sympathetic to the position  Mrs R finds  herself  in, but looking at the 
photos of the damage, Im persuaded that Mrs R was, or ought  to have been, aware of the 
damage being caused.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont thank Lloyds  reached an unreasonable conclusion 
that the damage was caused  gradually.  Although I appreciate that this will be disappointing 
for Mrs R, I dont  think Lloyds acted unfairly  in declining the claim.
Mrs R has accepted the investigators  findings in relation  to mishandling  and unfair treatment 
so I wont be commenting on this aspect of the complaint.
Ref: DRN49421203my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Im not asking Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4942120