K820x#14complaint
Ms J and Mrs R complain  that they cant get Ms Js name removed from a joint account  with
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. And its been difficult  for them both to go to their 
branch together.
To settle  matters  theyd  like Halifax to pay £150  compensation  to each  of them.
background
Ms J and Mrs R have  a joint account  with Halifax. They wanted to remove Ms Js name  from 
the account. They say they visited Halifax on two previous occasions but couldnt remove 
Ms Js name because they didnt have the identification documents  Halifax required. When  
Ms J complained to Halifax it upheld her complaint and paid her £75 compensation.
Since then they went into branch for a third time but still havent  been able to remove 
Ms Js name - again because they didnt have the identification documents Halifax 
required. They say they also had additional documents  that werent asked for.
Ms J cant  understand why she cant be removed from the account based on her 
identification documents alone  as shes  been able to do with other banks. And 
theyre unhappy that they both have to attend  the bank together  because this is 
difficult and inconvenient for them.
Halifax didnt uphold  Ms Js latest  concerns. It explained that because Mrs R didnt have 
photo ID it would need to see two forms of additional  identification. The bank set out in 
its final response letter the documents it would need  from Mrs R.
Ms J and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service. The adjudicator  didnt recommend 
their complaint should be upheld. Shed looked at the banks list of acceptable 
identification documents and she could see that on the first two occasions  they hadnt  
brought in documents  sufficient to satisfy  the banks  requirements.
On the third occasion Ms J had her passport and Mrs R brought in a photocopy  of her 
passport, an account  switch letter  from Halifax, a HMRC letter dated March  2017 and 
another HMRC  letter but this was not the full letter. The adjudicator concluded that this 
information wasnt sufficient to satisfy  the banks  requirements.
The adjudicator thought  Halifax  could  have been  clearer about what identification  would be 
acceptable but she was satisfied that the £75 already paid by the bank had compensated 
for this. She didnt think further compensation was warranted because the bank had yet to 
see acceptable documentation.
Ms J and Mrs R arent happy  with the adjudicators opinion. They cant understand why this 
complaint isnt being upheld because theyre  still having the same  problems as they did 
when Ms Js initial complaint was upheld. So theyve asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision  I explained that I was intending to partly  uphold the 
complaint. And I intended to ask Halifax to pay £75 compensation  to Mrs R as 
well as Ms J.
Ref: DRN41575572I explained that banks are required  to identify their customers. Each bank  will set their own 
policies for identifying their customers and for changing joint accounts to sole accounts. Its 
not within our powers to require banks to change  their policies  and procedures.  But I looked  
at whether Ms J and Mrs R had been treated fairly and, if not, whether Halifax  needed to do 
anything to put matters  right.
Halifaxs final response letter says that both parties must be present to change a joint 
account to a sole account. But Ive seen Halifaxs guidance notes and these deal with the 
situation where only one customer is present. So on balance I thought it should have 
been possible for Ms J and Mrs R to attend  the bank separately to change the account 
from a joint account  to a sole account.
Halifaxs. internal procedures say that existing customers can be identified  by their bank 
card and PIN alone. Im satisfied that this wouldnt have  helped Ms J because shes  told us 
she doesnt use the cards on her accounts  and doesnt know the PINs. But it may have 
helped Mrs R who didnt have any photo ID. And I havent seen anything to suggest this 
was discussed.
Although I thought things should  have been  handled  better by Halifax  I didnt think Ms J or 
Mrs R had suffered any financial loss. I could see theyd been inconvenienced by having to 
attend the bank together  when I didnt think that was required by the banks processes. So 
I thought that as Halifax had paid £75 compensation to Ms J for the first two visits it should 
also compensate Mrs R the same amount.
I didnt think it appropriate to award  any additional  compensation  specifically  for the third 
visit because I could  see from Halifaxs notes  that a further discussion took place about the 
ID that it would require  after theyd  visited the branch  for the second  time. And I thought  it 
was most likely that Halifax would have explained what was required during this call.
I noted that Halifax had explained in its final response letter the documents  it would require 
before Ms Js name  could be removed from the account. And our adjudicator  had also 
explained that identification can be verified  by using a Halifax card and PIN. So I was 
satisfied that it was clear  what identification  documents were needed to remove  Ms Js 
name from the account.
Halifax responded to my first provisional  decision  to explain that it paid £75 compensation 
not into Ms Js account alone  but into Ms Js and Mrs Rs joint account. Ms J and Mrs R 
didnt provide any further information for my consideration but asked if Halifax  had agreed to 
pay the additional £75 compensation.
second provisional decision
Based on further  information provided by the parties  I explained  that Id changed  my opinion  
and I wasnt intending  to uphold the complaint.  This was because  Halifax  had provided 
information to show itd paid compensation into Ms Js and Mrs Rs joint account and not to 
Ms J alone.  I was also satisfied that £75 was sufficient compensation for their two visits to 
Halifax.
Ms J is disappointed by my decision.  She says the compensatory award  was made to her 
but paid into their joint account. And she wasnt given the option of the compensation being 
paid only to her. She also says the visits to Halifax were more difficult  for her daughter 
Ref: DRN41575573because she has health problems and she also had to arrange childcare. She also thinks  
they had plenty of identification documents with them but they werent  asked for them.
She remains of the opinion  that barriers were  put up to stop the transfer of the account into 
Mrs Rs sole name. So she still thinks they should  each receive £150 compensation.
Halifax hasnt provided further information  for my consideration.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  Ms J and Mrs R but I am not upholding this complaint 
so Ill explain why.
Ms J and Mrs R feel Halifax  has put barriers in place  to stop them from changing the joint 
account into Mrs Rs sole name. Each  bank  has its own procedures  for doing this and for 
identifying its customers and I cant tell a bank to alter its procedures or to improve the level 
of service it offers. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But I 
can, and have, looked at whether  Ms J and Mrs R have been  treated fairly by Halifax and, if 
not, whether Halifax needs to do anything to put matters right.
I remain of the opinion that Halifax should  have been clearer  about  the ID it would need. 
And I also think it should have been possible for Ms J and Mrs R to attend the bank 
separately - for the reasons Ive previously explained. However, I wont be asking Halifax to 
do anything further.  This is because  Im of the opinion  that the compensation already 
offered by Halifax sufficiently compensates them for the impact this has had on them.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Ms J or Mrs R have suffered any financial loss as a 
result of the information  Halifax couldve  been  clearer about. I can see theyve been 
inconvenienced by having to attend the bank together. But I think  the £75 paid by Halifax  
adequately compensates  them for this. I say this because had they been able to attend the 
bank separately  as theyd wanted  it would still have required each of them having to 
attend the bank so they will still have  been inconvenienced.
I dont consider it appropriate to award any additional compensation specifically for the third 
visit because I can see from Halifaxs notes that a further discussion took place about  the ID 
that it would require  after their second visit. And Im of the opinion  that its most likely that 
Halifax would have  explained what was required in this call. And also by this time Halifax  
had issued its final response letter which detailed the identification documents it would 
require. I can also see that the adjudicator also explained that identification  can also be 
verified by using a Halifax  card and PIN.
So Im satisfied that by the time of the third visit Ms J and Mrs R knew  what  identification 
documents would  be required, but these still werent  provided  by Ms J and Mrs R on the 
third visit.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN41575574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4157557