K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr T bought  the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card in branch. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
 The credit  agreement Mr T signed included a cross in a box to indicate he wanted  PPI. 
I think its likely this was the result of a discussion about  it, because  another  type of 
insurance, with a similar box next to it on the agreement, was not selected.  So I think 
Bank of Scotland made Mr T aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that he chose  to take it. I appreciate  Mr T doesnt  remember agreeing to PPI, but I 
think thats understandable given how long ago it was. 
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr T, and it seems to have  been  right for 
him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  The PPI wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim, which is longer than his sick pay and savings 
wouldve lasted. This wouldve protected his sick pay and savings so he could use 
them for other things,  and the PPI also covered him for unemployment. So I think  the 
policy was suitable for him.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr T doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments. But these points  dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4083368