K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
July 2006  some time after the credit  card was taken in February 2005. Mrs M says HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
There is no documentation  available from the time of sale and HSBC  doesnt know how the 
policy was sold. This is understandable given the sale took place over 10 years ago.
Due to the time that has passed  and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt 
anything to say whether  HSBC gave Mrs M a choice  or not. Businesses arent required to 
keep information  indefinitely and so it would  be unfair to say that HSBC  wouldnt have given 
Mrs M a choice,  just because it doesnt  have the paperwork. While Mrs M says she doesnt 
remember it being added, I cant fairly uphold on this basis.
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said about  feeling pressured to take out the PPI. But 
pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think  is pressure another  may not. 
So without stronger  evidence  of this I cant fairly uphold  the complaint on this basis.  
Ive also considered what Mrs M has said about  not knowing that shed taken PPI. I think  its 
likely that PPI wouldve  appeared  on Mrs Ms monthly credit card statements and I think Mrs 
M questioned why she was paying  for PPI with HSBC if it was something she didnt know 
shed taken out. But it seems Mrs M continued  to pay PPI for some years  after taking the 
policy out
HSBC has said its looked at this sale as if it recommended the PPI to Mrs M. As this puts 
more responsibility  on HSBC for how it sold the cover, Ive looked  at this complaint on the 
basis as though HSBC advised Mrs M to have it. So it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs M has said she would not have received any sick pay from her employer at the time if 
she was too ill to work. This policy would cover  10% of the outstanding balance  of her 
account for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work or she lost her job. So I think  the PPI 
would have been useful to Mrs M.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ref: DRN44089722This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But HSBC  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4408972