K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained about her home insurer  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
because it told her to complete trace and access investigations but then wouldnt reimburse 
her costs for that work.
 
background
Ms H noticed serious problems in the kitchen;  she felt the floor was dropping and the units 
were bowing. She contacted RSA and it sent a surveyor out to assess the damage. The 
surveyor noted the floor and external  wall of the kitchen were damp in multiple places. He 
wasnt convinced this was caused by a water leak but said Ms H would have to investigate to 
try and find any existing leak.
In the weeks that followed  Ms H had; a builder strip the kitchen, including lifting  the flooring, 
a plumber investigate  and a drain  company look into the external  underground pipes. The 
plumber and drainage company provided  reports.  No leaks from household  heating or water 
systems were found. There  was felt to be an issue with the drains. Throughout all of this 
Ms H sought  certain assurances from RSA and it provided confirmation  that reasonable 
costs for trace and access would be covered.
Having received Ms Hs invoices RSA took some  time (albeit over the Christmas/new year 
period) to consider  matters. It then told her it wouldnt be covering her trace and access  
costs. It confirmed this in a final response letter issued  on 31 January 2019 (although this 
letter didnt specifically  mention the builders costs for uplifting the flooring).  
In its final response RSA admitted that it had caused  some  confusion over the 
circumstances when  it would and wouldnt pay trace and access costs. But it said the costs  
Ms H had submitted  still didnt fall for payment  under the policy terms as they didnt meet  the 
policy definition of what trace and access costs  are. But given the confusion it had caused, 
and the difficult  time this had caused for Ms H  shed reported being  without a working 
kitchen and heating  during very cold weather  it said it would pay £250  compensation. It 
also apologised.
RSA also noted  in its letter that a problem with the drain had been identified. It said it would 
look into that.
Ms H complained to this service. She emphasized  how she felt RSA had mis-led  her and 
then let her down regarding its liability for trace and access costs. This had caused her to 
pay out unexpected costs  at a difficult time that it was now saying, unfairly  in her view, that it 
wouldnt pay. She also said her builder  had said there was a leak from a pipe under the 
kitchen sink. But she was unable to provide any proof in support of this contention. 
Our investigator explained why he felt RSA had been reasonable when it said that the costs 
Ms H had incurred werent  covered by the policy. But he went  onto consider  the misleading  
information RSA had provided. He accepted,  as advised by Ms H and also accepted by 
RSA, that it had been less than clear with her. However,  he looked at what he thought  she 
would have done if RSA hadnt  failed her i.e. if it had been clear  and given her the correct 
information. He felt she would still have incurred  the costs it had subsequently declined  to 
pay. He also noted the compensation RSA had paid which  he felt was fair. He said, 
therefore, he couldnt reasonably uphold her complaint.  
Ref: DRN47771102Ms H said she felt wed missed the point   that RSA had given her wrong advice. She 
emphasized again the time RSA had taken to make  its decision whilst making her wait in a 
cold house.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for the upset 
I know this will cause Ms H, I dont  intend  to uphold her complaint, and for the same  reasons 
as set out by our investigator.  
Our investigator was quite  clear in his view  he accepted  that RSA had caused  confusion 
and that it had failed Ms H. He felt, and RSA accepted, it should have been clearer. But at 
this service we dont punish insurers  for failing their policyholders.  Rather we look at what 
result that failure had. And, importantly,  whether  that result would have been any different if 
the failure hadnt occurred. 
Here it is clear that there  was a significant problem at Ms Hs home. Im satisfied that was 
something that needed addressing. Im not persuaded that if RSA had told her it may not, or 
likely would not, cover  any costs she might incur,  that she would have just left things and not 
completed the investigation work that professionals  recommended she undertake. So, in my 
view, if RSA hadnt failed Ms H, she would still have been in the same  position as she would 
still have incurred these  costs. 
Setting RSAs failure aside for a minute,  Ive considered the entitlement  Ms H has under the 
policy. However, Ms H hasnt provided any evidence that any of her contractors found any 
leak on a household water or heating system. Such  would be needed under the policy for 
trace and access costs  to be covered   and those costs would have to relate to removing 
and/or replacing  a part of the building. So, using  a camera to assess  drains wouldnt fall for 
cover here.
That being  said I note that in its final response letter RSA said it would look into the drain 
problem. I dont know what the outcome of that is; I can only consider issues up to the point 
of the final response. But both parties should  be aware that camera  surveys are a usual part 
of drain investigations  with their costs sometimes being covered where a claim for accidental 
damage to underground pipes is validated.  If RSA hasnt looked  into the drain issue yet, 
Ms H may like to ask it to take her drain company costs into account when it does so.
I think RSA has accepted it could have handled  this situation better. I note it has apologised 
and its paid (or offered)  £250 compensation. It acknowledges that its action  caused  Ms H to 
suffer through a difficult  time. Having considered everything, I think  its response  is fair and 
reasonable. Im not minded to make it pay anything  more.  If the £250  hasnt  been  paid 
already and Ms H would like to receive it, she should contact RSA direct.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Ref: DRN47771103Fiona Robison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4777110