K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2004, 2006 and 2008. Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold 
them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs T bought Total Mortgage  Protection  Plans (TMPP) alongside a mortgage. TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs T have complained  about  the PPI so Ive looked  at the 
sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
The PPI covered Mr T only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances at the time each 
policy was sold.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding the policies  to their mortgage. I dont know for certain  what was said when the 
policies were sold, and there isnt much paperwork available,  but from what  we know about 
how Halifax sold this type of policy at the times  Mr and Mrs T took them  out I think its likely 
Halifax made Mr and Mrs T aware the PPI policies were optional,  and they chose to take 
them out, although I can understand why they may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the policies were right 
for them. Mr T has told us he would have received generous sick at the time they took the 
PPI policies and that they could have relied on family support to help make their mortgage 
repayments. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ts sick pay, and although  
Mr and Mrs Ts family would have wanted to help, their ability  to would have  been  dependent  
on their circumstances  at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ts circumstances at the time he took each  policy he wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover. So I think the policy was right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI policies wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose  to take them  out - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI policies 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said, but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Ref: DRN46706542This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs T paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs T back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already made a payment to Mr and Mrs T it will make arrangements  to pay 
them now Ive issued  my final decision.
my decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4670654