K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he was given by a representative  from Sun Life Assurance  
Company of Canada  (UK) to set up two Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) plans.
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but Ill 
mainly refer to Mr W in this decision.  
background
The background and my provisional findings to this complaint are set out in my provisional 
decision issued on 8 April 2020 which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out why Id come  to a different outcome to the investigator in 
that I wasnt persuaded Sun Life had complied  with the regulators guidance in respect of the 
1995 sale. So I said I thought Sun Life should redress all sales  in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review  guidance  on a charges only basis. 
But I didnt think it was likely Mr W would have opted to purchase added  years in his 
employers scheme, even if theyd been  available to him. 
Mr W accepted my provisional findings and so did Sun Life. But they asked for further  
clarification of my interpretation of the regulators guidance at the relevant time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  Sun Lifes comments 
in respect of my provisional decision. 
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  theres no need for me to depart from 
the conclusions  I reached.  But to clarify why I consider the regulators update known  as 
RU20 to be a restatement  of LAUTRO requirements rather than new standards  introduced 
in 1996, Id say as follows.
Our approach to this is set out on our website and reflects  that the LAUTRO  code required  
advisors to have regard  for the consumers  rights under their occupational  scheme.  This 
would include being aware that charges  for in house  AVCs tend to be lower than FSAVCs, 
so represent better  value  for money. The Financial Services Authority (FSA) instructed 
businesses to carry out an industry-wide review of past FSAVC sales  and, when requested 
by the consumer, this included  considering the difference  in charges between the AVCs  and 
FSAVCs. So weve taken  the same view as the regulator that there  was an obligation to 
have regard for the consumers rights to pay AVCs  under their employers  scheme and the 
likely benefit  of doing so.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  the complaint in full and require  Sun Life to redress  all sales  on a 
charges-only basis as follows. 
Ref: DRN46268632Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance  with the regulators  FSAVC 
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 
1 January 2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 
1 January 2005 and the FTSE  UK Private Investor  Growth Total Return Index  thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40% So making a notional deduction of 30% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this. Ive assumed Mr W is a higher rate taxpayer based on his earnings 
as stated in the last review. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46268633Copy of provisional  decision issued 8 April 2020
background
In September 1995 Mr W met with a representative  from a predecessor business of Sun Life, to 
discuss his pension provision in retirement. At the time Mr W was working in the finance department 
of a private sector company and had joined  its occupational pension scheme. He was advised  to start 
an FSAVC plan (ending  72) with monthly contributions  of £83.33.
The following year he met the advisor again and set up a second FSAVC  plan (ending 06) with a lump 
sum contribution of £2,000. He made two further lump sum contributions  to this policy  (£3,000  in 1997 
and around  £3,500  in 1998).  
Mr W left his employer in 2014 and took the benefits from both FSAVC plans  as an Uncrystallised 
Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) two years  later at age 60. 
Mr Ws representative  complained on his behalf  in 2019 as it said hed have been  better off 
contributing to his employers in-house AVC scheme. Sun Life said Mr W had wanted the portability, 
flexibility and additional fund choice available with FSAVCs. His profession meant hed be likely to 
change jobs throughout his career,  so wanted a plan he could take with him. 
But the regulatory requirements  had changed prior to the 1997  and 1998 meetings. As there was no 
evidence the advisor had complied with the additional requirement to discuss the difference  in 
charging structures between an FSAVC  and the in-house AVC scheme, Sun Life was prepared to 
offer redress  in relation  to those contributions. Their actuaries performed the calculations which  
showed a loss of pension benefits for the final two contributions of £91.82 which they offered to pay 
Mr W. 
The CMC didnt accept this offer or Sun Lifes explanation of why Mr W chose FSAVCs. They thought 
Sun Life should compare the benefits Mr W would  have  accrued through  the in-house scheme  for 
both plans and pay redress based on that. And if the in-house scheme offered added years then a 
calculation on that basis should also be offered. So the complaint was brought to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  but didnt think it could be upheld. He didnt look 
further into the two later lump sum contributions  as he thought the redress offered by Sun Life had 
been calculated in a way this service would suggest.  And he wasnt persuaded  by the CMCs 
argument that Sun Life hadnt followed  a reasonable interpretation of the regulators guidance in 
respect of the earlier contributions. 
So its been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im thinking of upholding it. Let me explain why. 
According to the CMC, this case turns on whether the Sun Life advisor  acted in accordance with the 
relevant regulators guidance at time of each  sale. So Ive looked  into the guidance which applied at 
the time and whether I think Sun Life complied with it.
It should be said at the outset that the advisor was tied which meant he could  only recommend 
products provided by the company he worked  for. As AVCs are part of the occupational scheme, no 
tied advisor would be able to discuss these with a client in any detail. But from their industry 
knowledge theyd be aware AVCs were available  and that the charges are likely  be lower than for 
FSAVCs. They were expected to explain  this to the client, although they may say FSAVCs have 
additional benefits which made them  more suited to the clients circumstances. 
Ref: DRN46268634Its not clear if added years  were available  for Mr W to purchase - these are more common in public 
sector schemes.
the 1995  sale (plan ending  72)
The first application was in September  1995 and the documentation from the time references 
LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). So the advisor would have been 
expected to follow its 1988 guidance which  said advisors  needed to have regard  to the consumers 
financial position generally, and to any rights they might have  under a workplace pension and give 
the consumer all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in question.  
There isnt much available documentary evidence, which  I dont find surprising as all this took place 
more than 20 years ago. But as the sale took place after January 1995 the advisor  would have been  
expected to issue  a reasons why letter.
Sun Life has provided a scanned  copy of the original application form, which  recorded basic personal 
information about Mr W, his employment, salary, and that he was a member  of his occupational  
scheme. It also provided a scanned copy of the financial  planning  profile  completed at the meeting. 
This provided further personal information about Mr W and his wife and gave  his retirement age as 
60. His goals were listed as early retirement, property, capital, financial independence. The final 
section captures attitude to risk (ATR) measured on a scale  of 1 to 5 (with  one being  cautious). Mr 
Ws ATR is recorded as 4-5, whereas his wifes is recorded as 2-3. 
Sun Life has provided a copy  of the advisors  handwritten document given to Mr W following  this 
meeting. The image quality is poor, but I think its the reasons why letter  and sets out the advisors 
recommendations. This shows that as well as discussing Mr Ws pension,  the advisor identified  Mr W 
had a shortfall in his life assurance  and no critical  illness  protection, but Mr W declined his 
recommendation for both these products. In relation to the pension provision  the advisor has written 
client understands  that company provide AVC in-house however  requires portability, flexibility and 
choice of pension  funds therefore recommend FSAVC. He understands that his chosen premium 
£83.33 still leaves a shortfall. This suggests to me Mr W was involved  in the discussion,  felt able to 
decline recommendations  which he didnt agree  with, and selected a monthly  contribution he found  
affordable. 
FSAVC charges tend to be higher than for in-house  AVCs, which  can erode investment  growth. This 
is particularly relevant  the nearer someone is to retirement, and at the time Mr W was still 20 years 
away from his chosen  retirement date. But theres no evidence to show charges were discussed to 
enable Mr W to decide  if the presumed benefits of FSAVCs were likely to outweigh the higher 
charges. Flexibility and portability are described  as key benefits of FSAVCs. Mr Ws profession was 
recorded as Accountant/Finance Manager  which  suggests transferrable skills which  could be carried 
out for various employers throughout a career. If Mr W had moved  to an employer without an its own 
pension scheme or became  self-employed he could have converted his FSAVC to a personal  pension 
plan. As it happened, Mr W remained with the same employer until he left in 2014 but he wouldnt 
have known that at the time. So its possible  having flexibility  and portability  appealed to Mr W. But 
without evidence  its difficult to say those potential benefits  of FSAVCs would  outweigh the higher 
charges hed be likely to pay. 
Another benefit attributed to FSAVCs is they enable  access to a wider range  of funds  than in-house 
AVCs. The CMC says most  in-house  schemes offered  a choice of funds  but Ive no information  
relating to Mr Ws particular in-house  scheme to show whether this was the case. Mr Ws FSAVC  was 
invested in a range of funds with a spread of risk (10% cautious, 80% balanced and 10% aggressive).  
Mr Ws ATR had been recorded as being on the more aggressive side (4/5 out of 5), and yet his fund 
choice was mainly balanced,  which  suggests thered  been  a conversation between  Mr W and the 
advisor about  the most appropriate investment strategy for him. But Ive seen nothing to show he 
couldnt have had a similar spread of risk with his in-house scheme.  
Ref: DRN46268635Under the LAUTRO  code  the advisor  should do more than simply make Mr W aware  of the existence 
of in-house AVCs. He should have  ensured Mr W was aware of his rights under the in-house scheme 
and encouraged  him to find out more about it. The advisor may have mentioned the existence of 
AVCs but appears to have only pointed out the features  of FSAVCs which  at the time may have 
appealed to Mr W. It doesnt appear there was a comparison of charges  or that Mr W had enough  
information to enable him to make an informed  decision. And I think  its more  likely  anyone, but 
particularly an accountant, would be more persuaded by lower charges than the other potential  
benefits of FSAVCs.  Particularly as he didnt feel able to make contributions  at the level the advisor 
recommended to address  his pension  shortfall. So I dont think I can safely say the advisor  satisfied 
the LAUTRO code for this sale,  even prior to the later clarification of the guidance. 
1996 and subsequent sales (plan  ending  06)
The following year Mr W started  a second plan to which he made  several  lump  sum payments. My 
understanding is the original plan was set up to accept monthly contributions and it wasnt possible to 
make lump sum contributions to the same  plan.  
Ive seen the office  copy  of the hand written reasons  why letter, a copy  of which would  have been 
given to Mr W at the time. This says Client has a shortfall in pension provision. Discussed in-house  
AVC and FSAVC.  Client chose FSAVC due to additional flexibility and choice of investment funds.  
The application forms for these contributions included on the front page a section  where the advisors 
manager had to review  the Personal Financial Planning Profile and Reasons Why Letter and 
countersign them to say they had been completed to a satisfactory standard  corroborates the 
clients objectives and priorities as disclosed ..the products recommended appear appropriate  
to satisfy the clients stated objectives.  But again, theres nothing  in either  document to show the 
comparative charges or that Mr W had been referred to the in-house  scheme. 
I can see in the 1997 Supplementary  financial planning  profile  which is signed  by Mr W, a section 
covering his occupational pension  scheme.  Among other information, responses to the following 
questions are recorded Additional voluntary contributions nil, Money Purchase or Added Years   
MP and Will your employer match contributions? NO 
And in the 1997 handwritten Reasons Why letter relating to the 1997 contribution the advisor has 
written You are a member  of the [employers]  defined  benefit scheme  however this will not provide 
the full 2/3rd benefits at 55. I recommend you top up your AVC to boost  benefits. You are aware of 
your in-house  AVC and the generic differences between the in-house  scheme and FSAVC.  You also 
understand these differences. Having considered  both options you have decided,  and I recommend 
that you top up your FSAVC  because  of increased  flexibility, fund choice, risk spreading  and 
portability. And an almost  identical statement is included in the 1998 letter.
Sun Life has made an offer to redress  the latter two sales as it doesnt believe they satisfied the 
relevant regulatory guidance. Although  the regulator  issued  guidance in 1996 it wasnt new or 
different but intended as clarification of the existing guidance, so the advisors obligations were  similar 
for the earlier sales as the later ones.  The paperwork  suggest Mr W was aware  of in-house  AVCs but 
Im not persuaded  he was given sufficient information to make a comparison with the charges 
applicable to FSAVCs.
added years
His CMC  has asked that if the in-house scheme would  have allowed  Mr W to purchase added years,  
then the redress should be calculated on that basis. I have  no information relating to Mr Ws in-house  
scheme, but Ive seen  nothing to make me think they would have appealed to Mr W more  than AVCs, 
even if he knew about them. Mr W says he joined his employer in 1974,  joined the occupational 
scheme in 1980 and left in 2014,  suggesting  he made 34 years of contributions. Without more  
Ref: DRN46268636information its not clear  how many  added years Mr W would have been able to purchase.  And one of 
his stated aims was to retire early. And although added years come with spousal benefits which might 
have been relevant to Mr W, importantly added years tend to prove  more expensive  than making  
AVCs as they involve committing to a fixed percentage contribution of his salary, rather  than an 
amount. From  the recorded information, Mr Ws salary increased significantly from when he started  
his FSAVC to when he left his employment, and his job title by then was finance  director  so a 
percentage contribution  would have risen in line. Of course,  Mr W couldnt  have known in 1995 
exactly how high he might rise in his career 30 years later. But Im not persuaded hed have chosen 
the more expensive option. And this appears to be supported by his decision to keep his contributions 
to the FSAVC below the recommended level, even though the advisor pointed  out this meant hed still 
have a shortfall to his goal of a pension  worth 2/3 of his salary at retirement. 
summary
Im going to uphold the complaint in full and require  Sun Life to redress all sales on a charges-only  
basis as follows. 
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation  in accordance  with the regulators  FSAVC review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account  that data for the CAPS mixed with 
property index isnt available  for periods  after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review  guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses  arising solely from 
poor investment returns  in the FSAVC  funds, which is why a benchmark index is used to calculate the 
difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching contributions or subsidised 
benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index  provides  the closest  correlation  
to the CAPS mixed  with property  index. So where  the calculation requires ongoing  charges in an 
investment-based FSAVC  and AVC to be compared after 1 January 2005, Sun Life should use the 
CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor  Growth 
Total Return  Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  amount should if possible be paid into Mr 
Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 40% So making a 
notional deduction  of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Ive assumed Mr W is a 
higher rate taxpayer  based  on his earnings  as stated  in the last review.  
But Im not going to ask Sun Life to carry out the comparison  with Added Years as Im not 
persuaded thats what Mr W would have chosen to do even if he knew he could. 
my provisional  decision 
I uphold this complaint. 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada should settle the complaint  using the FCAs  FSAVC review 
guidance as set out above.
Ref: DRN4626863