K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited is responsible for poor service  under her
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mrs T had a British Gas Home Care  policy that covered  repairs  to her boiler,  controls and
central heating and hot water system. She was paying an annual  premium of about £380.00
by instalments of about £31.00 on the second day of each month.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include
engineers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
In about May 2018, Mrs T called for help with her central heating boiler. She complained  that
British Gas left it so that she couldnt get hot water without the heating  coming on. British
Gas said it would respond to her complaint  within eight weeks.
On 5 July 2018,  British  Gas wrote a letter informing Mrs T of her right to bring the complaint
to us.
In August  2018,  Mrs T contacted our service. She complained that British  Gas should repair
her system or give her a refund of what shed paid. She also complained  that British  Gas
should only charge her the annual premium  advertised on its website.
On 12 September  2018, British Gas sent a final response.  It said it was sending  Mrs T a
cheque for £30.00 for delay in contacting  her. But it said that its engineer  had told her in May
2018 that it couldnt fix her boiler  because  it needed  a part that was obsolete.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that British
Gas wrote to Mrs T in March 2018  warning her that, because of her boilers age, there might
be difficulty in obtaining parts.  The investigator  thought that British Gas tried to repair the
boiler in May 2018 but unfortunately the parts were no longer available.  So he didnt hold
British Gas responsible  for the issues that the boiler suffered after the visit in May 2018.
In about December 2019, we decided to deal separately with Mrs Ts complaint about the
price she had been paying  British  Gas.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs T 
and to British  Gas on 29 September 2020 . I summarise my findings:
British Gas had done  what it could within reason to do a repair. Therefore I didnt find 
it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to do any more to repair  the boiler.
However, the letter of 15 February 2018 had said that Mrs T might  get a refund 
backdated to when she last had work done  or the latest renewal whichever was later. 
And Mrs T hadnt had any work done since  the renewal on 23 March  2018.
Ref: DRN46990062Subject to any further information from Mrs T or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was to uphold  this complaint in part. I intended  to direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs T:
1.a refund of each  instalment she paid on or after 23 March 2018;
2.simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each such instalment from the date she 
paid it to the date British Gas reimburses  her. If British Gas considers that HM 
Revenue and Customs  requires  it to withhold income tax from that interest,  it 
must tell Mrs T how much its taken  off. It should  also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Neither Mrs T nor British  Gas has responded to the provisional decision. I see no reason to 
change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From its work history, I see that British  Gas had visited Mrs T since  at least  2009. For
example, in June  2011 it replaced a water-to-water heat exchanger.
Im familiar with the last few editions of the British Gas policy  terms. Im satisfied that  since
at least October 2015  the policy terms have included the following:
If weve agreed to cover a boiler  or appliance  but warned you that it might  be difficult
to find spare  parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
Since at least September 2017   the policy terms have included the following:
Where  you have Boiler and Controls  Breakdown Cover or Central  Heating
Breakdown Cover; and
 We cant  get hold of the parts  we need to fix your boiler and controls or central
heating
 And, we havent told you before that we may not be able to find them well refund
any money you have paid for these products since your last claim, up to a maximum
of three  years 
British Gas sent us a copy of a renewal letter dated 15 February  2018  including  the following
warning:
Our records indicate that your boiler  is [model]
Your boilers manufacturer  stopped  making your particular model of boiler a while
ago. And whilst they are still making  the most  important parts for your boiler, some
other parts are becoming difficult  to source
At some point in the future we may not be able to fix your boiler  if it breaks down.
However, well do all we can to keep  it running for as long as possible. We are the
one of the largest distributors of gas and electrical parts in Europe and over 99% of
the time we are able to source  any parts needed  to fix a boiler
Ref: DRN46990063In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back
dated to when you last had work done,  or to when  you renewed your agreement  
whichever is the most recent
Mrs T sent us an email dated  17 February 2018 with a copy of a shorter  renewal  letter dated
15 February 2018 without any such warning. But that electronic version of the letter  says that
Mrs T may log on to her online account  to view the renewal documents. And I find it likely
that those renewal documents included the longer version of the renewal letter  dated  15
February 2018.
So, on balance, Im satisfied that British Gas had warned Mrs T that it might be difficult  to
find spare parts.
The policy renewed  automatically for a year from 23 March 2018.
From the British Gas records, I find that in May 2018 the engineer  made a note as follows:
FAULTY  PCB CAUSING HEATING TO COME ON ADV BY MAKERS PART IS
OBSOLETE AND NOT  ON ADAPT 
So I find that  as it couldnt source  a replacement printed  circuit  board  British Gas couldnt
do any more to repair Mrs Ts boiler.  I consider that British  Gas had done what  it could within
reason to do a repair. Therefore  keeping  in mind the first policy  term quoted above - I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to do any more  to repair the boiler.
However, the letter of 15 February 2018 had said that Mrs T might  get a refund backdated to
when she last had work  done or the latest renewal  whichever  was later.  And Mrs T hadnt
had any work done since  the renewal on 23 March 2018.
So I find it fair to direct  British Gas to pay Mrs T a refund  of the instalments  she paid on or 
after 23 March 2018. Mrs T told us in late October  2018 that shed  told British Gas to stop 
taking instalments. But I find it likely that shed made payment  on the second day of each of 
the seven months  from April to October  2018.
As since shes been out of pocket since then, I intend to direct  British Gas to add interest
at our usual  rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs T:
1.a refund of each  instalment she paid on or after 23 March 2018;
2.simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each such instalment from the date she paid 
it to the date British  Gas reimburses  her. If British Gas considers that HM Revenue  
and Customs requires  it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mrs T 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Ref: DRN46990064Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699006