K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the way British  Gas Services Limited handled a claim under his home
care policy.
background
Mr H had a home care policy with British  Gas for two flats he rented out. On 5 February 
2017, he contacted it to make a claim because the boiler wasnt  working properly,  affecting  
the central heating  and hot water in both flats.
British Gas sent out an engineer who said that, when he left, the boiler  was working  properly. 
But Mr H contacted it nine days later to say the hot water hadnt been  working  since the last 
visit. The engineer  returned and reported  that the boiler was working, but that he had 
replaced a faulty  valve. Mr H then called again  two days later. The engineer  returned on 
16 February and said the valve was working, but the water  wasnt  circulating through  the 
cylinder. So, he advised Mr H to have the system  re-flushed.
Mr H complained to British Gas on 16 February because he was unhappy his tenants would
be without hot water until the re-flush, which  had been booked in for 28 February. And after
the system was re-flushed, Mr H reported  that the system still wasnt working.
But British  Gas didnt  look into Mr Hs complaint until 24 March. It sent an engineer  on
31 March, when Mr H explained hed had the system looked at by a third-party plumber,
whod told him the system needed  a new valve. The engineer replaced a three-point  port
valve, which, apparently,  resolved the problem.
 
Mr H later complained to British Gas.  He said thered been continuing problems with the
central heating and hot water since hed made the claim and that the tenants had moved out
of both flats. He told British Gas he wanted it to pay him £207.76 (for rent hed had to refund
the tenants for moving out of the second flat early),  £559.80 (the fees hed paid to the estate
agent for finding  new tenants for both flats), £2,060.38 for lost rent and £133.38 for council
tax (for both flats).
 
British Gas said Mr H had told the engineer hed already had tenants  lined up to move into
both flats and so it refused to pay for any lost rent, the agents fee or the council tax. It
maintained its engineers  had attended when asked  and undertaken the necessary repairs,
but it accepted  thered been  a delay in resolving  the claim and offered to pay him the
£942.85 hed previously paid to have  the system flushed.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained it wasnt  until the
mechanical part of the valve was replaced on 31 March that the problem was resolved and
that British Gas had insisted  the boiler  needed  a re-flush,  even though this had only been
done 18 months before. He said he wanted British Gas to pay him for lost rent for each flat,
the cost of finding new tenants and the council tax he paid during the period the flats were
unoccupied.
my provisional findings
British Gas had argued that much of what Mr H was claiming amounted  to consequential  
loss, which  isnt covered  under the policy. While  I agreed the policy  doesnt  provide cover 
for the things Mr H was claiming for, I explained  that if the losses arose because  of the way 
Ref: DRN40248902the claim was handled  or because of an unreasonable delay in repairing the boiler, then 
British Gas might be responsible for the losses.
The policy requires British  Gas to carry out repairs within a reasonable time. I noted  
British Gas had sent engineers out on five separate occasions between  5 February and 
31 March, when the boiler was eventually repaired in accordance with the recommendation 
from a third-party plumber. I was satisfied  that, up to that point,  British  Gas engineer had 
failed to diagnose the problem and that this failure,  and its failure to respond  to Mr Hs 
complaint on 16 February, extended  the period the boiler wasnt  working.
However, the tenant in the first flat had already moved out by the time Mr H had made the
claim, so I said British Gas wasnt responsible for the fact that tenant moved out. Mr H had 
explained the new tenants had been  due to move into the first flat on 1 February but didnt 
move in because of the problems with the heating and hot water. Again, I said I couldnt  hold 
British Gas responsible  for this because it happened  before Mr H made the claim.
Mr H had explained the tenant  moved out of second  flat on 16 February,  having  been due to
move out on 28 February (as this was the end of the tenancy  agreement).  I didnt think
British Gas could  fairly  be held responsible  for the fact the tenant had moved out early,
because it was only eleven days after Mr H had made the claim. Even  though British Gas
had failed to correctly diagnose  the problem with the boiler by then, I didnt consider its
actions up to that point were  unreasonable, as claims of this nature can sometimes take a
few attempts to resolve.  So, I didnt think it needed to reimburse Mr H for the rent he 
refunded to the tenant in the second  flat.
However, the new tenant had been  due to move into the second flat on 28 February and,
having considered the circumstances and the nature of the problem, I did think British  Gas
could reasonably have been  expected  to have fixed the boiler by this time. I was satisfied 
this failure resulted in Mr H losing those tenants. Consequently, I thought it should pay the 
fee he paid the estate  agent to find new tenants  for the second flat, which was £286.20.
Mr H accepted the flats became habitable once the boiler was fixed, but he argued it took 
time to find new tenants. I explained  I couldnt fairly make British  Gas compensate Mr H for 
the entire period the second flat was unoccupied, as the new tenant didnt move  in until 
August and there may have been other factors involved.  But I was satisfied it should  pay for 
lost rent for the period between 28 February  and 31 March, and for one month after the 
boiler was fixed (up to 30 April), which I considered would be a reasonable time in which to 
find new tenants. I was also satisfied it should  reimburse the council tax Mr H was required 
to pay from 28 February  to 30 April, plus interest.  And, based on the evidence Mr H has 
submitted, I accepted  the rent on the second  flat was £795 per month and the council tax 
was £3.42 per day.
Finally, I was satisfied that £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances.
developments
British Gas didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision, but Mr H made some additional 
comments. He explained  the problems with the central heating  system began in 2015 and 
that after the power-flush in 2015,  there  were  intermittent  problems which  became more 
frequent in November 2016. The tenant from the first flat contacted  British  Gas in 
December 2016  and Mr H served  notice on him in December (because of the constant 
Ref: DRN40248903phone calls regarding the central heating). Mr H explained he took over the handling  of the 
problem in January  and had the system looked  at by an independent  plumber (whose 
recommendations British  Gas ignored). He said he attended the flat meet with British  Gas on 
several occasions and that British Gas had failed to attend some of the appointments.
Responding to Mr Hs further  comments,  I asked him for some evidence in support of his 
suggestion that the claim began before 5 February 2017, including the dates his tenant  had 
contacted British Gas and the date he first contacted  British Gas.  Mr H was unable to 
provide this information and eventually said he wanted to draw his complaint to an end and 
accept whatever the Ombudsmen decides.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas hasnt  responded to my request for further information about the start of the 
claim, and Mr H has said he wants  to close his complaint, so I will base my findings on the 
information I do have.  The available evidence shows British Gas attended on 
11 January 2017  and, before that, the last attendance was in June  2015.  I dont know  for 
sure that the attendance on 11 January 2017  represented the start of the claim but, in the 
absence of satisfactory a response to my enquiries  from British  Gas, I will treat it as such  for 
the purposes of this complaint. 
Ive stated above that the tenant in the first flat had already  moved out by the time Mr H 
made the claim, and the new information doesnt  change my finding that British Gas isnt 
responsible for the fact the tenant moved  out. I accept the were issues with the boiler which  
dated back to 2015, but I havent  seen any evidence  that Mr H or the tenant  contacted  
British Gas in relation  to this claim before the tenant moved out in December 2016.
Mr H has said the tenants in the second flat didnt move in because of the hot water  and 
central heating problems, and Ive previously  said I couldnt hold British Gas responsible  for 
this because theyd  been due to move in before Mr H made  the claim. The fact British Gas 
attended on 11 January and this is before the date the tenants had been due to move  in is 
relevant information  that I havent  previously  considered. But Ive thought  about  whether it 
alters the outcome of the complaint and I dont think it does.  Thats because I dont think  the 
time that had elapsed  between 11 January and 1 February (when the tenants had been due 
to move in) represents  an unreasonable delay, and I dont think  British  Gas can fairly be held 
responsible for the tenants failure  to move  in at that point.  Especially  as theres  no evidence 
of Mr H having called British Gas between 11 January and 5 February. For the same 
reasons, I maintain  my view that British  Gas wasnt responsible for the tenants having 
moved out of the second flat on 16 February. 
For the reasons  outlined  above, the findings  in my final decision are the same  as the findings 
in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct British Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr H:
Ref: DRN40248904£286.20 for the finders fee for the second  flat. This is to include a payment of 8%
simple interest from the date Mr H incurred  the expense to the date it makes  the
settlement.
£795 for lost rent during March. This is to include a payment of 8% simple interest
from the dates the rental payments had been  due until the date it makes  the
settlement.
£795 for lost rent for one month after the boiler was fixed. This is to include a
payment of 8% simple interest from the date the rental payments had been due to
the date it makes the settlement.
£208.62 for council  tax he had to pay for the second flat. This is to include a payment
of 8% simple interest from the date he incurred the expense to the date it makes the
settlement.
£100 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within  28 days  of the date on
which we tell British  Gas Insurance Limited Mr H accepts my final decision (if he
does). If it pays  later than this then interest* will have to be added to the unpaid
amount from the date of my final decision until settlement is made.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires British  Gas Insurance Limited to take off tax from this
interest, British Gas Insurance Limited  must  give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax
its taken off if he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim  the tax from the tax
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4024890