K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco bank) has rejected a claim hes 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
background
In early April 2018 Mr A bought a watch for his wife from a retailer  whilst on holiday 
overseas. He paid £3,125.55 for the item using his Tesco  bank credit  card.  
He says his wife didnt wear  the watch for about  ten weeks. But when she did she found it 
wasnt working. The second hand  would  stop after a few seconds  and the winder wouldnt 
move the arms.
So he tried to contact  the retailer to reject the watch and get his money back but when he 
wasnt able to do that he contacted Tesco bank. He said that section 75 allowed him to make  
a like claim against the provider of credit  and he therefore wanted Tesco bank  to provide a 
full refund.
Mr A visited  one of the manufacturers shops in this country and had the watch inspected. 
The inspection noted that the:
case, bracelet  and bezel marked with impact  marks,  bracelet pin protruding   rotor 
inside movement marked on edge small impact mark  on crown 
and a diagnostic  noted:
there is a material fault with the oscillating weight,  the coating is coming offthe oscillating 
weight is what captures the energy  of your daily movement. Additionally the watchmaker 
advised the amplitude is low.
He advised Tesco bank but they explained  that he should therefore contact the manufacturer 
and have the watch repaired under warranty. But they said they didnt have to provide a 
refund in the circumstances.
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
explained that section 75 allowed Mr A to make a like claim against Tesco bank but he 
wasnt persuaded that there was evidence  the watch was defective  when  it was purchased.  
He explained  that Mr A wouldve had the chance  to inspect the watch  when he bought  it and 
he thought it reasonable to suggest  he wouldve  noticed the scratches. He thought it was fair 
to have the watch repaired under its international warranty but he explained that if there 
were any costs involved hed think it reasonable for Tesco  bank to liaise  with the 
manufacturer and meet  them.
But Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He insisted Tesco bank were responsible and as 
the watch was clearly not of satisfactory quality  he should be given his money back. He 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45267082I know it will disappoint Mr A but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im persuaded that there is a fault with the watch as the expert report provided by the 
manufacturer says so. It confirms that there is a material  fault with the oscillating weight.  I 
dont think its likely  this would have  happened after Mr A bought the watch as this is an 
internal mechanism. I also note that theres some  damage to a rotor and as thats  also an 
internal component I think its more likely this was present at the point of sale than at any 
subsequent time.
The relevant  legislation  would allow Mr A to return his watch  and get a full refund  if he 
reported the quality problem within 30 days.  But Mr A didnt report the issue  for a few months 
and in those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the retailer an opportunity  to repair  
the fault. 
Mr A has a like claim against Tesco bank so if his claim was for the cost of repairing the item 
he could make that like claim  against  Tesco bank in the same way as he could make it 
against the retailer.
But Im asked to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and here I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to ask Tesco bank to pay for the repair.  Thats  because  
Mr A has an international  warranty  with the manufacturer that will cover  the cost of any 
repair.
I understand that the wrong year was written  on the warranty card and Mr A may have been 
concerned that would invalidate his warranty. But Im not persuaded thats  the case. I say 
that because I can see the inspection report provided by the manufacturers agent  states  the 
warranty date as April 2018 (when the watch was bought) and provides the requisite 
warranty number under which Mr A can make  a claim. Im persuaded his warranty  claim will 
most likely be successful  as the manufacturer has highlighted internal issues  with the watch. 
Ref: DRN45267083Should it be unsuccessful  Mr A, as Tesco bank  has explained, would then be able to pursue 
a section 75 claim through them. But I think its only fair and reasonable to attempt to have 
the watch repaired under  warranty first.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526708