K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
didnt carry out sufficient affordability  checks  before  granting her a Safety Net facility. Mrs M 
also says, had SNC carried out sufficient checks, it wouldve seen that she couldnt afford it. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision which was sent in 
October 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  SNC agreed with the findings 
reached in the provisional decision. Mrs M also agreed with the findings reached  in the 
provisional decision and she didnt have any further  comments. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M and SNC have accepted the findings of the provisional decision.  So I see no reason 
to depart from the findings I made in my provisional  decision. 
So I still think SNC was wrong  to have provided Mrs M with her safety net credit  facility, and 
Ive outlined below what it needs  to do to put things right. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mrs M, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fee and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest and charges applied to Mrs Ms Safety Net facility; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Mrs M owes, then the remained of the refund should  
then be paid directly  to Mrs M. 
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay any outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mrs M should try and come to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan in order 
to repay what is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation  to treat Mrs M positively  and 
sympathetically. 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result  of this 
facility having  been given  to her.
Ref: DRN45774382HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision  Im partially upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint. Indigo Michael Limited should pay Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN45774383EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  didnt carry 
out sufficient  affordability checks before granting her a Safety Net facility.  Mrs M also says, had SNC 
carried out sufficient checks, it wouldve  seen that she couldnt  afford it. 
background
Mrs M approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2017. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer  could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would  be deposited  into 
their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net amount  of the customers 
choosing. 
Mrs M was initially given  a facility with a £300 credit limit in March  2017.  Her limit was then increased  
incrementally until it reached £800 in October 2017.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mrs Ms complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried out before 
granting this facility were  proportionate. However,  the information SNC  had available  to it suggested 
that Mrs M wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. 
The adjudicator could see from the credit check information SNC provided  that Mrs M had been 
having long term financial difficulties, as a result of defaults and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
being present.  He also thought,  based on the information SNC could see in Mrs Ms read only bank 
statements, that her outgoings were significantly  higher  than her income. So the adjudicator 
concluded Mrs M wouldnt  be in a position  to sustainably meet the repayments she was committed  to 
making. 
Mrs M appears to have agreed with the adjudicators  recommendation.  
However, SNC didnt agree.  In response to the adjudicators assessment it confirmed that it was 
happy with its original  decision to provide the facility but it didnt provide  any further information. 
No agreement was reached, so the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im intending to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint in full and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below.  
the relevant regulations in place at the time Mrs M was given her Safety Net facility  
I think  it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mrs M this facility  when it was 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement  (like Mrs Ms Safety Net 
facility),  to make payments  within a reasonable period.
Ref: DRN45774384CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer 
wouldve been  able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it 
could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender could 
take into account  before  agreeing to lend.  The key thing was that it required a lenders  checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear,  Mrs M wasnt given a payday loan where  she had to repay all of what  she borrowed plus 
the interest due when  she next got paid. She was given  a facility  where there was an expectation that 
shed repay  what she borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time, and at the 
start of the facility the minimum payment  Mrs M wouldve been expected to make was around £20 per 
month. CONC doesnt  set out what a reasonable period of time  is. So I think  its important to note 
that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual 
case. 
Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before  agreeing to 
Mrs Ms Safety  Net facility.  As explained, Mrs M was given what  was an open-ended credit  facility. So 
overall I think that this means the checks SNC carried out had to provide enough information for it to 
be able to understand  whether Mrs M would likely  be able to service  and then repay this facility within  
a reasonable period  of time.
SNC says it reviewed Mrs Ms bank transaction data for the 90 days prior to the facility  being 
approved. And having  done so, it says it was satisfied Mrs M wasnt experiencing difficulty meeting 
her existing commitments.  So therefore, it was likely she would be able to afford  the payments she 
was committed  to making. 
SNC also carried out credit  checks  before  the facility was provided, and it has provided us with the 
results. At the time of the facility being approved  it was aware of some adverse information recorded 
with two credit reference  agencies.  The information  SNC saw indicated that Mrs M had a CCJ,  over 
£7,000 of current  active  debt, as well as repayments  in the last month to short term loan providers of 
over £750.
I dont think this information on its own wouldve automatically led to SNC declining  Mrs Ms request 
for a facility. But I do think, based on the combined  results of its review of Mrs Ms banking 
transactions and the credit check, that SNC couldnt reasonably have believed she would be able to 
maintain the facility she was offered. In short, what SNC  hasnt done is react to the information that it 
saw in either Mrs Ms bank statements or the credit  check results.  
Ref: DRN45774385In this case, SNCs checks showed that at times substantial sums of money  were being transferred 
from the account it was reviewing to and from another bank account. This meant that while it was 
aware of Mrs Ms regularly salary and benefit payments, SNC also says that her average monthly  
income during this period was well over £4,500  per month. Even though it could see from the read 
only bank statements  that her salary was nowhere near this amount.  I think, having looked at the 
bank statements, that SNC hasnt categorised  some of the incoming payments  into the account  
correctly, and Ive explained why below.  
Mrs Ms actual monthly income  was nowhere  near £4,500 per month. It does appear in January  2016 
that Mrs M received a refund of what looks like Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI). This is a one off 
payment, that doesnt appear again  in the bank statements. So, given this I dont  think SNC could 
have believed  that Mrs M would  receive this amount of money every month and so, it wasnt 
reasonable to have  considered  this as income. In any event, shortly after these  funds  were 
despotised into Mrs Ms account, the funds are then transferred to another  bank account.  
What appears to have happened, in this case, is that after Mrs M received her salary  she immediately 
moved it to another  bank account  this can be confirmed  from a review of her bank  statements from 
December 2016, January and February 2017. And then over the course of the month, funds  were 
then periodically transferred back into her main account in order to cover  her expenditure.
Based on what I can see in the statements, it seems to me that SNC has counted these  transfers 
back into her account as income. This has had the effect of artificially doubling Mrs Ms actual income.  
As from the bank statements  it seems  that Mrs Ms monthly was fairly stable, and didnt change  from 
month to month.  And this therefore, had an impact on SNCs assessment as to whether Mrs M could 
afford the facility. 
In addition to the above, Ive also considered the difference between the amounts that Mrs M 
transferred to the other account,  compared to the amount she transferred  back into her main  account  
over the course of the month. In December 2016 and February 2017  the amounts transferred are 
about the same, so cancel each other out. 
However, in January 2017 around £900 more  is transferred  out than in, but this can be explained by 
the PPI refund. While in March Mrs M transferred in significantly more  than she transfers out  this 
would indicate that the PPI refund has now been exhausted.  But overall, Im satisfied that the amount 
Mrs M transferred out of her account was roughly equal to what was transferred back  in. 
It therefore  follows that the amount of disposable income that SNC believed  Mrs M had was also 
incorrect. SNC has told us that it believed  her disposable  income, at the point  the facility was 
approved, was around £1,260 per month. But, SNC ought to have  realised this wasnt correct, 
because the review  of the bank statements wouldve highlighted a significant amount of expenditure, 
which made the facility unaffordable for Mrs M. And Ive explained this in further detail below.  
Having reviewed  the bank statements, it seems that Mrs Ms regular monthly outgoings included  
payments for personal loans,  living  costs such as subscription TV, mobile phone packages  and 
payments to run a vehicle, so insurance, tax and petrol. These payments come to at least £1,000 per 
month. However, this figure doesnt include the significant spend each month in supermarkets  
although this amounts varies  during  the period that SNC had the bank statements for, it does seem 
an amount of around £600 is not unreasonable. There  are also other transactions that Ive not 
included, that SNC was aware of, including bank transfers to what I assume to be family  members. 
So, looking  at the expenditure each month, including what SNC could  see with the supermarket 
expenditure, it is clear  that Mrs M wasnt in a position to take on this facility  as she wasnt in a position 
to sustainably repay what she was borrowing.   
Ref: DRN45774386Ive also thought  about  what SNC says about the payments Mrs M was making to three different debt 
collection agencies.  In March, these repayments appear to be around £63 per month.  SNC  says that 
these payments didnt affect the overall affordability of the facility. 
However, while individual these payments wouldnt have affected the overall affordability,  they do 
suggest that in the recent past Mrs M had had some financial problems to the extent  that three 
companies were engaged  in collection action  which ought to have raised some concerns  with SNC 
around Mrs Ms ability to sustainably take on this facility. Therefore, for the reasons Ive outlined 
above, I dont think SNC shouldve have granted the facility. 
Overall I dont think SNC shouldve provided  this facility  to Mrs M, it also follows  that I dont think  SNC 
shouldve increased Mrs Ms credit  limit between May and October  2017.  And I think Mrs M has lost 
out as a result of SNCs actions.
Ref: DRN4577438