K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limiteds (NFU) handling of her car insurance policy.
Reference to NFU includes their agents.
background
Miss Bs car was insured  with NFU. On 17 August  2018, she was involved in an accident 
that wasnt her fault. Two cars crashed  into hers and the fire brigade  had to cut Miss B out. 
NFUs engineer assessed Miss Bs car on 23 August and declared it a total loss.
NFU said Miss Bs car was worth  £633  immediately before  the accident. After  deducting her 
£100 policy excess they paid her £533.  Miss B didnt feel the valuation offered was 
reasonable as she expected it to be higher. But she accepted the payment on an interim 
basis. Miss B was also unhappy with a number of aspects of NFUs service  and she 
complained. NFU accepted some aspects of their service should  have  been  better  and they 
paid her a total of £100 compensation.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with NFUs  response so she brought her complaint  to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt that NFU had dealt with Miss B fairly.  As Miss B didnt 
agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss B, but Im not going to uphold her complaint because I think  NFU dealt with her 
reasonably. Ill explain  why.
In her complaint, Miss B has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding 
issues.
total loss valuation of the car
Miss Bs policy says that where  her car is a total loss, NFU must pay her the pre-accident 
market value of it. I feel that the starting  point  when trying to establish the market value of a 
car is to look at the industry trade guides, and that is what  NFU did. The guides are based  
on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. NFUs valuation was in line with the 
trade guides. In fact, our investigator independently checked the guides and found that 
NFUs valuation was higher than the guides.  
Miss B also said at the time of her cars loss it had a brand new battery and an expensive 
sound system. A new battery wouldnt enhance  the value of a car given it is an essential part 
of it to enable  it to work. And the expectation is that any replacement  car Miss B would buy 
would also have a working battery. As for the sound  system, Ive not seen any evidence  that 
it would  have enhanced the value of the car. Again, the expectation  is that a replacement car 
would also have a sound system. Im satisfied that NFUs valuation  was reasonable. And as 
Ive not seen any convincing evidence to show NFUs valuation was unreasonable Im not 
upholding this part of Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN43055592courtesy car
Miss Bs policy said that NFU would provide her with a courtesy  car if the CAR is so badly 
damaged to the extent that it is uneconomic to repair it, which  was the case with Miss Bs 
car. The policy said the courtesy car would be provided for up to 14 consecutive  days  or 
until YOUR settlement  cheque is received  or if YOUR CAR is recovered undamaged 
(whichever is earliest).
NFU provided a courtesy  car to Miss B on 20 August 2018. NFU accept that Miss B told their 
agent on delivery that the courtesy  car was bigger  than what she wanted. But it seems the 
agent didnt tell NFU about that. Miss B told NFU on 29 August 2018 that she wanted  a 
smaller car. On that same date NFU sent Miss B a cheque for £533 to settle  her claim. NFU 
said they provided Miss B a smaller courtesy  car on 31 August. They accept  they should 
have told Miss B during the conversation  on 29 August when they would  collect the first 
courtesy car and deliver the smaller  one, but they didnt.  Miss B waited at home all day on 
30 August to receive the replacement courtesy  car. 
Although Miss B wasnt happy  with the size of the first courtesy  car I agree with NFU that the 
policy didnt provide a like for like replacement. And the purpose of the courtesy  car was to 
keep Miss B mobile. Im therefore  satisfied that NFU complied with their obligation  under  the 
policy and Miss B had a courtesy car from 20 August onwards.
injury claim, recovery of £100  excess and referral to a solicitor
When Miss B reported the accident she told NFU that she was injured during the accident 
and an ambulance had attended. As Miss B had motor legal expenses  (MLE) insurance 
(MLE), she was referred  to get assistance and advice from a solicitor about  a potential injury  
claim and to recover any uninsured losses she might have.
The MLE insurer is a separate  business  to NFU.  I know Miss B said that she never wanted 
to make a claim for injury and she said some insurers  encourage false  claims. But Ive seen 
no evidence that NFU encouraged Miss B to do that. Miss B was under no obligation to 
pursue an injury claim but I can understand why, having said she was injured, she was 
referred. 
I should also say that under the policy NFU only have to pay Miss Bs insured losses. And 
they did that by paying  for the total loss of her car. Miss B wanted her £100 excess  refunded  
but under  the policy NFU were  entitled  to retain that.
Miss B also wanted compensation for the inconvenience of being  without her car. But like 
personal injury and the £100 excess the inconvenience Miss B experienced fell into the 
category of whats known  as uninsured losses. So if Miss B wanted to pursue any such 
losses she had to do that either directly with the other drivers  insurers or through her MLE 
insurer and not NFU. And Im aware that Miss B spoke with two separate solicitors through 
her MLE insurer and she complained about  them. But as our investigator  correctly said we 
cant consider those complaints as part of Miss Bs complaint about NFU. So I wont 
comment any further unless necessary for explanatory purposes.
breach of personal data
Ref: DRN43055593Miss B feels that NFU gave her personal  details to a number of other parties in breach of the 
data protection  rules.  If Miss B wants to pursue that as a complaint the correct authority is 
the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO).
But it might help if I explain that given the nature of the contractual  relationship  between  
Miss B and NFU, for NFU to provide Miss B with a service and to comply  with their 
obligations under  the policy they are required  to disclose  some of Miss Bs details. For 
example, given two other cars were involved in the accident and they were both insured 
NFU had to contact the insurers and give certain  details, including  Miss Bs name,  car details  
and other  relevant information necessary to process her claim.  
Miss B was unhappy  that her details were passed  onto a car hire company  whose  database 
was later hacked and their customers details stolen. It might  help to explain what  happened.  
Under her policy Miss B was entitled to a courtesy  car for 14 days. Although NFU sent her a 
cheque to settle her claim within a short  period  of time, NFU noticed that she hadnt banked  
it. And the 14 days were  due to expire  shortly.  In order to assist Miss B and to ensure she 
wasnt without a replacement car, NFU raised the issue with Miss Bs MLE insurer.  It was 
suggested that although Miss Bs entitlement  for a courtesy car under her policy  was about  
to expire, given it was apparent the other  drivers were at fault for the accident Miss Bs MLE 
insurer might  arrange  a hire car for her which would be paid for by the other  drivers  insurers.  
That would have  involved  a process  of Miss Bs MLE insurer  speaking with the other 
insurers and arranging a car hire company  to provide Miss B with a car. I understand that 
happened and the hire car company asked Miss B for personal details including  her 
identification, a utility bill and credit card details which they said was necessary to enable 
them to give her a car. Miss B refused to give her details. But NFU wasnt involved in that 
process and wasnt responsible for the actions of the MLE insurer  or the car hire company. 
So I dont  think NFU did anything wrong.
letter from another insurer
Miss B said after the accident she received a letter from another  insurer referring  to a driver 
she had never heard  of. She said she raised this with NFU. I havent seen that letter but Im 
aware that it was from the insurer of one of the other cars involved in the accident.  The 
information Ive seen would suggest  that the letter the other insurer  sent Miss B included  the 
name of their policyholder. But it was a different person  who was driving that car at the time 
of the accident.  So, I think Miss B may have expected the letter  to refer to the name of the 
driver at the time of the accident but it didnt. I think thats what caused the confusion. But 
NFU are not responsible for the letter the other  driver sent Miss B so I cant say theyve  done  
anything wrong.
compensation
Miss B said she had to make a lot of calls in relation  to the accident  and spent  over £80 in 
phone calls. Miss B hasnt  provided a copy of her phone bill. But from the information  Ive 
seen I dont think all those  calls would have been  with NFU. She also had dealings with the 
MLE insurer and two solicitors. While I appreciate the accident and subsequent claims 
process would  have been distressing and inconvenient, its inevitable that a policyholder will 
have to spend some time dealing with the claim by speaking on the phone and responding to 
correspondence.
Ref: DRN43055594But NFU have recognised  that their service could have been better and offered to pay Miss 
B £100 compensation. I think that was reasonable so Im not asking them  to do anything  
else.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4305559