K822xcomplaint
Mr I and Mr A complain  on behalf of a business, who Ill refer to as Company A, that Lloyds  
Bank PLC allowed one of Company As directors to make a number of transactions from a 
business savings  account, that the director wasnt authorised to make.  
background 
In September  2018 four transactions, totalling  £28,227.68, were transferred from Company 
As business savings  account to four unrelated accounts  the transactions were carried  out 
in a Lloyds Branch, by a director of Company A, who Ill call Ms C.
Two of Company  As other directors, Mr I and Mr A, complained to Lloyds about these 
transactions. They say Ms C wasnt authorised  to make the transactions, as she wasnt  a 
signatory on the business account. They said Ms C did have a Business Debit Card (BDC) in 
her name, however Mr I had always kept this in his possession, and he had never  given it to 
her. 
Mr I says he spoke to Lloyds in August 2018,  to get clarification that a transaction couldnt 
take place on the account without the authorised signatories being present. Mr I spoke  to a 
Business Manager  and was informed that it was only he and Mr A that were able to transact  
on the account  and that there were two other directors, who were named on the account,  
who could be provided with information about the account, but couldnt carry out 
transactions.
In September  2018, Ms C made the four transactions in a Lloyds branch. 
Unhappy, Mr I and Mr A complained, but Lloyds didnt uphold their complaint. Lloyds issued  
their final response letter  and said that, although  Ms C wasnt a full power  signatory, at the 
time of the transactions she was a director on Companies House records.  They  added  that 
she was noted  on their records as a director  in a non-signatory capacity, so they classed her 
as a Key Account  Party  (KAP). Lloyds said that although they had Ms C recorded  as a non-
signatory, Company A had previously allowed her to have a BDC issued in her name.
Lloyds have said that when Ms C visited  the branch, she would  normally  have been 
identified through  her BDC and PIN. But if this wasnt available, which it wasnt here, the 
branch would have asked  for suitable identification to verify  her. In this case, Lloyds  have 
said the branch  staff have confirmed that Ms C did provide suitable identification  they say 
as part of their routine  checks, they reviewed the account and could see she was listed as a 
director in a non-signatory capacity and had a valid BDC in her name.  The branch were 
satisfied they could proceed and processed the transactions accordingly.
Overall, Lloyds think this is a dispute  between directors  and have  said that Mr I had told 
them there had been a previous disagreement  between the directors of Company A, about 
payments. Lloyds have  said that as Ms C had links to the business  account in the capacity of 
a KAP,  they are satisfied  the payments were made correctly. Lloyds added that they were 
unable to provide  Company A with any further details about where the four transactions  had 
been made to.
However, Lloyds did agree  that errors were made in the call they had with Mr I in August 
2018. They  said it was incorrect of them to tell Mr I that Ms C didnt have access  to the 
account  they say it was incorrect as she is a KAP and her BDC was active in her name, so 
Ref: DRN43936592although the card wasnt  in her possession at the time of the transactions,  if it was then she 
would have been able to transact on the account.
Lloyds also apologised  for issuing a variation mandate to upgrade  Ms C to a full power 
signatory, after the disputed  transactions  had taken place. For these errors Lloyds offered to 
make a compensatory  payment to Company A for £250, for the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mr I and Mr A brought their complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things  and thought the complaint should be upheld,  because 
she didnt believe Lloyds  should have allowed Ms C to carry out the transactions.  
Our investigator said that Ms C wasnt listed as a signatory on the mandate,  and that it was 
clear she was a KAP who wasnt a signatory. She also thought  the mandate was clear, in 
that a number of directors  signatures were needed for any transaction to take place.
Our investigator added  that she couldnt  see any evidence that Ms C had produced her BDC 
when the transactions were carried out. And Ms C had been able to transfer  money out of 
the business saving account  rather than the account the debit card was attached to. She 
also didnt think Lloyds  had acted in accordance with the mandate  and that had Lloyds given  
Mr I correct information during the call in August 2018, he could have taken steps to avoid 
the situation occurring. She felt Mr I had done  all he could to check  that this situation  could  
not occur, and he was re-assured that this wasnt  a possibility.
Our investigator was comfortable that information Mr I and Mr A had provided, showed  that 
the disputed transactions hadnt been made  to benefit Company  A  so there wasnt the 
likelihood here that Company A would be in a better position, as a result of her upholding the 
complaint. Our investigator also acknowledged,  that as Mr I and Mr A didnt know where the 
four transactions had gone to  it wasnt surprising they were unable  to provide further 
evidence to show they hadnt  benefited.  
Mr I and Mr A did however provide our investigators  with details of invoices from third 
parties, showing intent  to wind up/take Company A to court for unpaid  invoices.  
Overall, she felt that had everything happened  as it should have, Ms C wouldnt have been 
able to make  the payments she did, so she recommended that Lloyds refund the total 
amount of the transactions,  plus interest. She also recommended that Lloyds should  
increase the trouble and upset payment  it had offered, from £250 to £500.
Lloyds didnt agree  with our investigators view.  They referred  to the Terms  and Conditions  
for the BDC  and said at 4.6 it says that a debit  card holder has authority to access each 
account held by the business. While Ms C didnt have her card with her, she had sufficient ID 
to confirm authority  to make the payment.  They have said the payments couldnt have been 
made if the BDC  had been cancelled  by the other directors, but it wasnt. 
Lloyds maintained that they thought this was a dispute between the directors  around who 
they should pay first from the business  accounts.  They feel that if the other directors  had 
doubts concerning  Ms C, then they should  have taken steps to remove  her as a director  
through Companies House, and the BDC  should  have  been cancelled, rather  than retained. 
As Lloyds  did not agree  with our investigators  findings, the case  has been  passed to me for 
a decision. 
Ref: DRN43936593my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business Mandate and Terms  and Conditions
Ive seen the authority to operate account document that was put in place for Company A, 
in November 2017, for account ending 9760.  It shows Mr I and Mr A as directors  of the 
account, who are signatories.  It also shows Ms C (plus one other) are directors  who are not 
signatories to the account(s).
Mr I and Mr A are captured on the document under the heading  Signatories  with Full 
Powers to operate  the account(s). The document goes on to say that Full Power 
Signatories are authorised by the Business to (amongst other  things);
-give instructions to the Bank  to pay to or debit  from the account(s)
The bank must receive  the following signatures of the authorised signatories named in this 
Authority before carrying out transactions on the business account;
Ms C and another director are detailed under the heading Persons who have provided  us 
with personal detail, but who are not signatories to the account(s).
So, this would initially suggest to me that, according to the mandate,  only Mr I and Mr A are 
authorised to carry out transactions on the account.  However, under section 3 in the 
document, headed General terms and conditions the document goes on to say;
Where you apply for the provision of banking services;
-by bank card, debit  card, charge  card, credit  card or any other card introduced by the 
Bank from time to time; 
specific terms for such services will apply.  If there  is any conflict, those specific  terms will 
override the terms  of the Authority and/or these general terms and conditions
In this case, it is not in dispute, that Ms C was authorised to have a BDC (even though  Mr I 
has said he had retained the BDC and Ms C had never had possession of it). So, Ive gone  
on to consider the terms and conditions of the BDC   as the mandate indicates these would 
override it.
Ive also thought carefully about Lloyds saying that under the terms and conditions for the 
BDC, they say at 4.6 it says that a debit card holder has authority  to access  each account  
held by the business.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions and at 4.6 it says;
-a Card and PIN can be used  in some ATMs  and at counters  in some Bank branches 
to get information about  the accounts  in the name  of the Business. By signing this 
Agreement, you give us your consent  to disclose  this information to an Authorised  
User. 
Ref: DRN43936594I consider that in allowing  Ms C to have a BDC  in her name,  she can safely  be considered as 
an Authorised Person  for the purpose of the terms and conditions. But the BDC that Ms C 
held was for account ending 9760,  whereas the transactions  were made from account 
ending 1668. While  the terms of the BDC  indicate that a card holder may have been able to 
get information about other accounts that a business  may hold, Ive not seen that they say a 
card holder  is entitled to carry out transactions  on other accounts   as has been allowed 
here.
Ive also thought carefully about what Lloyds have said,  that they followed their correct  ID 
procedures, when Ms C didnt present her BDC at the point of transaction.  Lloyds have said 
that Ms C identified herself  through her passport, they checked  SMD  and could see she was 
not a signatory, but she had a BDC  in her name  and was down  as a director   so they 
considered her to be a Key Party to the account  and were  comfortable to proceed  with the 
payment. 
Considering this, it seems  clear  to me that at the point of transaction Lloyds have  checked  
the mandate and so would have  seen that Ms C was a non-signatory to the account.  She 
was also carrying out a transaction on an account  that was different to the account that both 
her BDC and the mandate  was set up against. So, Im not persuaded here that Lloyds  were  
correct in allowing  the transactions to go through.
Mr I telephone call with business in August 2018
Even if I found that Lloyds were correct in allowing Ms C to make the transactions,  which as 
Ive said, Im not persuaded. Overriding this, I think had Lloyds not made  the error in 
providing Mr I with incorrect information, during the telephone call he had in August 2018, 
which was prior to the transactions  taking place, then I think its more likely than not that the 
transactions would  have  been prevented.
In this case, Mr I has retained Ms Cs BDC  and called  Lloyds to clarify the position around 
who would  be able to transact on the account.  Lloyds have offered to pay compensation for 
their error, so it doesnt  seem to be in dispute that Mr I was told that all authorised 
signatories would be required  for a transaction to take place. 
Lloyds have provided me with the call from August 2018, when Mr I speaks to a business 
manager. Mr I is clear  that he only wants himself or Mr A to be able manage the account. 
The Business Manager confirms that the other  two directors are named on the account but 
are not signatories   so they could  be provided  with information, but they wouldnt be able to 
transact. 
During the call the Business Manager  does ask Mr I if theres  any particular transaction that 
hes worried  about, Mr I explains that its not a transaction, just that hed found out, through 
his accountant, that Ms C had information about  the account. So, he wanted  to clarify things 
before anything happened. 
Incidentally, Mr I did call Lloyds customer services after the transactions  and asked the 
same question  I have listened  to that call, and again Mr I is informed that all signatories 
would be needed  in order to transact.
I think given what Mr I was told during the call in August 2018, alongside the mandate and 
the terms and conditions of the BDC,  it gave  him confidence and allayed any fears  he may 
have had. I dont  think it was unreasonable of Mr I to consider that hed taken reasonable 
Ref: DRN43936595steps in ensuring  the funds in the business  account  could  only be moved  by signatories on 
the mandate. Mr I also confirmed with the Business Manager, during the call on 21 August 
2018, that he was the only one who had online banking access.
Lloyds have suggested that if the other directors had doubts about  Ms C, then they could 
have cancelled the BDC and removed her as a director - which would have prevented  Ms C 
from transacting on the account. I dont entirely  disagree with Lloyds point here, but only 
because of the benefit of hindsight. I think during the call Mr I had with Lloyds, Lloyds missed 
an opportunity to ask more questions than they did, such as; why was he asking about who 
could transact on the account? did he have concerns  about  the funds in the business  
account? did he need to change the mandate? did he want  to cancel any of the directors  
debit card?.  Alongside this I cant see that Lloyds  actively  flagged any potential issues of 
having an active BDC in a non-signatory name, which I think  they ought  to have done, given 
what Mr I was saying. 
Ive seen no evidence  that this happened  here or that suggests to me any of these, or 
similar, questions were  asked or that BDC  holders were discussed. Had these things been 
discussed, I think Mr I would  have  had the opportunity  and taken further steps to ensure only 
the appropriate people were able to transact on the account. 
Finally, Ive thought  about whether Company  A has benefited in any way from the 
transactions that were made. From what Ive seen I dont think they have  Ive seen  no 
evidence to satisfy  me that the transactions  made  went  to accounts that have benefited  
Company A. Mr I and Mr A have provided  me with evidence  of being chased  for invoices, 
threats of court action and winding up petitions  which supports this.
I think had Lloyds not provided  Mr I with incorrect  information during the call in August 2018,  
these transactions  would have been  prevented and Company A wouldnt have lost this 
money. It is also not clear  that Ms C had authority  to act on account that sat outside  of the 
BDC which she held.  So overall, it seems  fair and reasonable to me that Lloyds should 
refund Company A the transactions that are in dispute. 
From what  Ive seen I think being  without  this money  has caused Company A some  
inconvenience, highlighted  by it being chased for settlement  of outstanding invoices. So, I 
think it fair in this case that Lloyds should pay £500  for the inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to; 
-refund  the total of the four transactions (£28,227.68)
-pay interest at the saving account  rate (if any) applicable to the account from which 
the money was transferred, from the date of the transactions, to the date of 
settlement
-pay £500 for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Ref: DRN43936596Stephen Wise
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4393659