K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited  said he didnt co-operate  when 
a third party made a claim against  his car insurance  policy. Calpe is pursuing Mr T for the full 
claims costs. 
Calpe is the lead insurer.
background
Mr T was involved in an incident with another car. The other  driver made a claim against  
Mr Ts policy with Calpe.
Calpe instructed an investigator  to arrange  a visit to take a statement from Mr T. Mr T 
contacted Calpe the day before the appointment. He said due to a family emergency  he had 
to cancel, but he suggested  an alternative date for a few days later. 
Mr T said he took the day off work for the rearranged appointment,  but it didnt go ahead.  
Calpes notes show their investigator cancelled due to being unwell.
The investigator told Calpe it tried to rearrange the appointment with Mr T but without 
success. So it went to Mr Ts home  a couple of weeks later on a cold call. But nobody  was 
in. So it said it left a contact request letter. It didnt hear from Mr T, so Calpe decided to 
settle the third party claim. 
Calpe told Mr T he owed  the full third party claim costs  which  came to over £12,000. 
Mr T asked  us to look at his complaint. He thought Calpe hadnt  shown  any flexibility and 
that hed tried to co-operate with them. Mr T works  full time and is driving  a lot so cant easily 
deal with phone calls. He sent Calpe the verification documents it asked for promptly. He 
said he didnt receive the contact request letter from their investigator or any calls to 
rearrange the appointment. Mr T is unhappy that hes being  chased by debt recovery agents 
for the amount. He said hed asked  to rearrange  the appointment for a weekend  as its 
difficult for him to take a day off work.  At the time his mum was very unwell. He assumed 
Calpe would  email  him.
Our investigator thought Calpe hadnt acted reasonably. Although  Mr T didnt appear to have 
contacted the investigator to rearrange the appointment, there was no evidence  of attempts 
to contact Mr T either.  The investigator asked Calpe to provide evidence  of its 
correspondence with Mr T around  the time of cancellation  and whether it explained the 
consequences to Mr T. But Calpe didnt provide any information. It also didnt provide a copy  
of the contact request letter. 
From what  he could  see, it seemed Calpe was relying on the Road Traffic Act (RTA)  term in 
settling the third party claim  so this was why it looked to recover the full claim costs. But it 
hadnt shown  it had told Mr T it cancelled his policy  or that it had been  voided for 
misrepresentation. 
So our investigator thought a fair outcome was for Calpe to charge Mr T the excess  payable 
under his policy as it settled the third party claim. This was £3,000.  He also recommended 
Calpe pay Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused.  
Ref: DRN48561272Mr T didnt  provide any further  comments.  Calpe didnt reply.  So the case  has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ts policy with Calpe says in the event of a claim he owes an excess  of £3,000.  In this 
case, the third party claim costs  exceed the £3,000  excess. Calpe said because  Mr T didnt 
co-operate, he owes it the full claim  costs which it says is £12,898.74.
Calpe wrote to Mr T on 20 October  2017 to explain its claim process and asked for 
verification documents. It said if it cancelled Mr Ts policy  for non co-operation, it would settle 
the claim on the best terms  possible. And it said that Mr T would be responsible  for the claim 
costs up to the value  of the excess.  
Their investigator said they spoke to Mr T on 6 December 2017  to rearrange the 
appointment for the third time. Mr T said he intended  to rearrange the appointment, but had 
to arrange time off work  first and would then reply.  
On 12 December 2017 Calpe wrote to Mr T. It said that he hadnt provided the documents  it 
asked for and it had made numerous attempts  to contact him. It said if Mr T failed to co-
operate, he would  be in breach of his contract  under  the term due observance. Calpe  said if 
it didnt hear from Mr T in the next seven days,  it would have no option but to instruct the 
broker to cancel the policy. And because Mr T was in breach of his contract, Calpe had the 
right to recover the full costs of any claim from him, even  if it exceeded  the excess.
However, Mr T had emailed verification documents to Calpe on 30 October  2017.  And Calpe 
agreed with the investigator to cold call Mr Ts home address on 18 December 2017. But it 
hasnt provided  any evidence to show any further communication  with Mr T following the 
second cancelled  appointment   or that it instructed the cancellation of his policy.
 
Calpe settled the third party claim in 2018. I dont think  its reasonable for Caple  to look to 
recover the full claim  costs from Mr T in this case. Its not clear if it did cancel his policy.  And 
I think its letters gave conflicting information  as to what  Mr T would have to pay if it cancelled 
his policy  for non co-operation. I dont think Calpe has made  it sufficiently clear which section 
of the policy  applies  to Mr Ts circumstances in order for it to rely on the RTA section to deal 
with the claim. 
So I think the fairest outcome is for Mr T to pay the excess under his policy  as Calpe settled 
it on the best terms possible. And for the distress  and inconvenience caused,  I think Calpe 
should pay Mr T £150 compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
Limit the amount Mr T owes it under the claim  to the excess of £3,000.
Pay Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused him. It can 
either pay this sum or deduct it from the £3,000 Mr T owes  as Calpe settled the third 
party claim.
Ref: DRN48561273Arrange removal of any adverse credit markers as a result of the recovery  request 
under this claim up until the date of this decision.
Calpe Insurance  Company Limited must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Calpe Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4856127