K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  how UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd has administered  their 
mortgage over the years.  In particular, they complain that the interest rate UCB  has charged 
is too high and doesnt track the Bank  of England base rate, as theyd understood it would.
background
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage  with UCB. They  complain about the interest  rate charged by 
UCB since their initial tracker rate period ended in 2009. They  say that their mortgage offer 
makes clear  that the mortgage would continue  on a variable rate which tracks the Bank of 
England base rate. But they say that the interest rate UCB  has in fact applied is both too 
high compared  to base rate, and hasnt  moved  in line with base rate.
Mr and Mrs C calculate that, as a result, their mortgage payments have been around double  
what they should have been  for the last ten years. They want  those additional payments 
refunded to them  as well as what they say is consequential financial loss. This includes the 
impact of other borrowing theyve had to take to help them  meet the mortgage  payments, as 
well as the impact on their family life of having  to work very long hours to earn enough 
money to keep up with the mortgage.
UCB said the mortgage was operating as it should.  At the end of the tracker  rate period, Mr 
and Mrs Cs mortgage reverted to UCBs variable rate  which  didnt track the Bank of 
England base rate. And, it said, nothing in the mortgage offer suggested  it would.
Our investigator didnt  agree that the mortgage offer clearly said the variable rate wouldnt 
track base  rate. She thought it could reasonably be read as suggesting it would  and she 
said it should be interpreted as if Mr and Mrs C were on a tracker  rate. She said UCB should 
refund the additional costs Mr and Mrs C had paid as a result.  But she didnt agree with their 
full claim as theyd quantified  it.
Neither party was happy with that. UCB accepted  the wording  of the offer could have been 
more explicit but didnt  think  Mr and Mrs C had been misled or that the wording suggested 
that the interest rate would track  base  rate. And, it said,  it was up to their broker  not UCB to 
ensure they understood  the mortgage they were taking out. But, without acknowledging 
anything had gone wrong, it offered to recalculate the interest  rate as if it had tracked base 
rate  but on the basis that the mortgage balance would be reduced rather than the 
difference being refunded  to them. And it said the mortgage would not track base rate in the 
future. Mr and Mrs C, meanwhile,  didnt  think the compensation  recommended by the 
investigator went far enough  to recognise  the financial impact on them.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage reverted to UCBs variable rate in October 2009, and this 
complaint is about  the interest charged since then. Although this includes a change of rate in 
2010, more than six years before Mr and Mrs C complained, UCB has given its consent  for 
us to consider  the whole of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN48889422The interest rate is governed by the mortgage offer, and by the terms and conditions.
The mortgage offer says,  in respect of the interest  chargeable:
Interest charged  in the month of advance, payable with your first full monthly 
payment £1,068.44
36 payments at a variable  rate, currently 5.44% £1,042.73
Followed by
204 payments at a variable rate, currently 7.04% £1,348.68
And it describes the interest rate applicable  like this:
Your loan will be on
Self-Cert 3 Year Flexible Tracker
A tracker rate which  is variable and will be 0.69%  above the Bank  of England  base 
rate unless the Bank of England base  rate is 2.75% or less in which case the Tracker 
Rate will be 2.75% plus 0.69%.
The Tracker Rate will apply from completion until 3 years from the end of the month 
in which  you take the loan (the Benefit Period), after which our Flexible  Variable 
Rate, currently 7.04%,  will apply for the remainder of the term. Any variation  to the 
Tracker or Flexible Variable Rate as a result  of the change in the Bank of England 
base rate will take place  on the first day of the following month.  
The interest rate will be variable and will track  the Bank of England  Base Rate by the 
amount and for the period specified, providing  there is no breach of the Terms and 
Conditions or any condition in the mortgage offer. The Benefit Period may be 
removed and the Flexible Variable  Rate applied  instead upon  any such  breach.
The rate will be increased or decreased on the first of the following month  after an 
announcement by the Bank  of England  to change the Base  Rate. At the end of the 
benefit period  the interest will revert to the Flexible Variable Rate for the remainder of 
the mortgage term. In the event of the Bank  of England ceasing to set a relevant 
interest rate, we may by resolution of our Board of Directors, declare some other 
comparable rate to be the Tracker rate for the purposes of these conditions.
The terms and conditions  say:
2.4 If these  conditions and the terms of the offer document are not consistent, the 
offer document will take priority.

4.1 The interest rate we will charge  you will be the rate we have told you in the offer 
document. Apart from any initial fixed rate under the offer document the rate may 
change under condition 5

Ref: DRN488894235.1 We may change the interest rate applicable  to the debt at any time except during 
any fixed rate period  under the offer document giving you three days  written notice of 
our intention to do so.
5.2 We will only change the interest rate for one or more of the following reasons:
(i) To respond to change or anticipated changes  in law, regulation or codes of 
practice, or to Court or Ombudsmans decisions;
(ii) To ensure we meet  all of the requirements  of the Financial Services  Authority, 
any other regulators, and any relevant monetary authority;
(iii) To reflect a change in the way the property is used or occupied in accordance 
with condition 9(vii)
(iv) To act upon our legitimate  commercial interests, including but not limited  to
a.Changes in prevailing market rates
b.Costs associated with specific  changes in relevant market conditions 
including technological changes and changes in services or facilities  
provided;
c.To reflect a change in the credit risk relating to the loan
(v) If we vary the interest rate for any other  reason, we will notify you at least 30 
days in advance  and waive any early repayment change payable  on your 
mortgage for 60 days starting on the date of the notice we send to you, to 
allow you to repay  your mortgage  without charge.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage reverted from the Tracker Rate to the Flexible Variable Rate  (FVR) 
in October 2009.  At the time the FVR was 4.99%.
The FVR has changed since  then like this:
February 2010  increase by 0.3% to 5.29% relying on Clause 5.2 (iv) (b) of the 
terms;
September 2018  increase by 0.25% to 5.54% relying on Clause 5.2 (iv) (a) of the 
terms.
At the reversion date,  the Bank of England base rate was 0.5%. Since  then, it has changed  
like this:
August 2016   reduced by 0.25% to 0.25%
November 2017  increased by 0.25% to 0.5%
August 2018   increased by 0.25% to 0.75%
It can be seen, therefore, that the FVR changed  in line with base rate in August  / September 
2018. But it rose in February 2010  when base rate didnt, and it didnt  reflect the fall in base  
rate between August 2016  and November 2017.
UCB says that this was a tracker rate for the first three years,  and after that a variable rate 
that didnt track the Bank of England base rate. It accepts that the wording of the offer could 
be more explicit that the FVR didnt track base rate. But it doesnt think that the wording can 
reasonably have been read as suggesting  that it did.
I dont agree with UCB about that. I understand that its intention  was that this mortgage 
would be on a tracker  rate for three years, and then a non-tracking variable rate thereafter. 
Ref: DRN48889424But I think the wording  of the offer suggests  otherwise  or, at the very least, is ambiguous, 
and I would resolve any ambiguity in Mr and Mrs Cs favour.
There are four paragraphs to the wording  about  the interest rate in the offer beneath the 
heading. The first paragraph says that a tracker rate will apply and sets the tracker margin.
The second  paragraph says that the tracker rate will apply for three years,  and will then be 
followed by the FVR. The final sentence  of this paragraph says that where there are 
changes as a result of changes to base rate, they will take place the next month.  UCB  says 
this sentence reserves the right to make changes  to the FVR following changes to base  rate, 
but it doesnt say changes  to the FVR will follow changes  to base rate. 
But I think this sentence needs  to read in the context of the passage  as a whole.  The fourth 
paragraph says The rate will be increased  or decreased  on the first of the following month  
after an announcement by the Bank  of England  to change the base rate. This says will not 
may. And it refers  to the rate  not specifically to the tracker  or the FVR. Elsewhere the 
wording does distinguish  between the Tracker  Rate and the FVR. So the use of the rate 
here suggests the rate applicable to the whole mortgage, not to one of its parts.  
This sentence is followed by reference  to reversion to the FVR at the end of the Benefit 
Period. But that sentence  doesnt appear  to me to qualify the one that comes  before. 
The third paragraph  again says the interest  rate, not the Tracker  Rate or the FVR, will 
track the Bank of England base rate by the amount and for the period specified. There  is no 
amount or period  specified for the FVR, only for the Tracker Rate. UCB says this means that 
the FVR doesnt track the base rate  only the Tracker Rate  does. But equally it could mean 
that the Tracker Rate has a pre-determined margin which runs for a fixed three years, and 
then the FVR takes over and continues to track for the rest of the term  with, therefore,  no 
need for a Benefit Period.
All of this is to say that I think the wording in the offer does say that the interest rate will track 
the Bank of England base  rate for the whole term of the mortgage  with an initial Benefit 
Period where the margin  is 0.74% and a 2.75%  floor, and thereafter tracking from a higher 
starting point and with no floor.
If Im wrong about that, I think the wording of the offer is at the least ambiguous,  for the 
same reasons. And I would resolve  the ambiguity in favour of Mr and Mrs C.
Theres no tracker margin specified once the mortgage reverts to the FVR. But the offer 
wording does, to my mind,  say that once  the reversion happens it will track  the base rate 
thereafter. 
Mr and Mrs C say that this must  mean that the margin over base rate for the FVR must 
therefore be 2.29% - which  was the difference  between the FVR of 7.04% and base rate of 
4.75% when they took the mortgage  out.
Im not persuaded by this. For the reasons Ive given, I think  the offer says that the FVR will 
track the base rate once  it is effective. But  unlike with the Tracker Rate  the offer wording 
doesnt specify a tracker margin, a 2.75% collar, or a benefit  period. 
Ref: DRN48889425There are, I think, three possible ways of reading  the absence  of a pre-determined margin  
over base rate for the SVR. Either the same  margin applies as to the Tracker Rate   but 
then there  would be no need for a different rate at all. 
Mr and Mrs C say the second possibility must apply  that in the absence of a specified 
margin, the offer must be read as implying  the same margin as when the mortgage was 
taken out. 
But theres a third possibility  that once the Tracker Rate  ends, UCB then applies the then 
current FVR to the mortgage, and from then on it becomes the interest  rate applicable to 
this mortgage,  and tracks base rate while applicable. UCB  can vary the FVR from time to 
time  but then once Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  becomes subject  to it, it then tracks base 
rate. 
Ultimately, I think  this is a poorly  worded and unclear  part of the mortgage offer. Ive said 
what I think is its natural meaning.  And Ive said that if Im wrong about that, and its 
ambiguous, I would interpret that ambiguity in favour  of Mr and Mrs C. Thats  because, with 
ambiguous wording, its fair to interpret it against  the party relying  on it. In respect of whether 
the FVR tracks base  rate, UCB are relying  on its interpretation to say it doesnt and it was 
therefore fair to increase the rate in 2010 and not reduce it in 2016. So I resolve  the 
ambiguity in favour of Mr and Mrs C. And in respect  of how it tracks the base rate  the 
margin by which it does  so  Mr and Mrs C are relying on their interpretation of its silence 
about that to say that the margin  should fairly be lower than it actually was. So I resolve  it the 
other way. Ive thought carefully about this, and Im satisfied thats a fair approach in all the 
circumstances.
UCB increased the rate in 2018  in line with a change to base rate  which  is envisaged in 
the offer. But the 2010 increase was independent of any change in base rate. UCB relies  on 
clause 5.2 (iv) (b) here. And I note that the mortgage  offer says at its start that the terms and 
conditions will apply. 
But the terms say that where the offer conflicts with the terms and conditions, the offer will 
take precedence. Ive said that the offer indicates that the interest rate  both Tracker Rate, 
and FVR  will track the Bank of England base rate. If its increased independently of the 
base rate, it no longer does that. And nothing  in the offer wording qualifies the operation of 
tracking to say that in certain circumstances the margin  can be increased  other  than 
because of changes  to base rate or that the interest  rate can be changed for other reasons. 
In my view, the offer says that the mortgage interest  rate will track the Bank of England base  
rate, with a change  at the end of the initial Benefit Period. I think  a change  for different 
reasons at a different time  by which the FVR no longer directly tracks base rate, or 
increases without an increase in base rate - is in conflict with that, and so the offer takes  
priority.
I therefore dont  think it was fair for UCB to have increased the interest  rate in February 
2010. And I dont think it was fair for UCB  not to have reduced the rate in August 2017. If the 
FVR tracked base rate in accordance with the terms of the offer, I think  this should have 
been the interest rates applicable to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage:
Reversion  date to 31 August 2016  4.99%
1 September  2016 to 30 November 2017  4.74%
1 December 2017 to 31 August 2018   4.74%
1 September  2018 onwards  5.24%
Ref: DRN48889426UCB says that it will apply the FVR to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage as it intended in future  that 
is, it will not track the base rate  because its now explained what the offer wording was 
always intended to mean. I dont  think  thats  fair. I dont  think  UCB can reasonably  change  
the term of the mortgage from what it says to what it intended it to say because  it has 
explained what it intended. The mortgage should operate  on the basis  of what  the applicable 
documents actually  say, not what the parties  wanted  them  to say. UCB will therefore need to 
put arrangements in place to ensure that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage interest rate continues  to 
track the Bank of England base rate.
I think fair redress  would  be for UCB to re-work Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  as if those rates 
had applied. It will need to re-calculate  the monthly payments they would have made  from 
time to time, and refund  the amounts theyve overpaid each month. Finally,  I agree that Mr 
and Mrs C have been caused distress by the mortgage not operating as they expected it 
would. I note theyve  been in significant  financial difficulty  albeit not in arrears   for some  
years, and paying more than they needed  to would have contributed  to that. I agree £500  is 
fair compensation for that.
However, I dont think it would be fair to require UCB to pay the other  costs  Mr and Mrs C 
have sought. Ive explained  why I think,  based  on what the offer says about  the interest rate, 
UCB has charged interest at too high a rate since 2010. But I dont think  the interest rate 
should have been reduced  by as much  as Mr and Mrs C have said.  Ive looked carefully at 
the detailed account Mr and Mrs C have given of their circumstances, and the difficulties  
theyve faced. I dont  in any way make  light of them, and Im sure theyve had a very difficult 
time over the years. But if the mortgage  interest rate had been  0.3%  lower  between 2010 
and 2016, and a further 0.25%  lower after that until 2018, I dont  think  that would have made  
a substantial difference to their circumstances such that it would be fair to say they wouldnt 
have incurred the costs theyve set out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct UCB 
Home Loans Corporation Ltd to:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  so that it tracks the Bank  of England  base rate, 
with the historic rates Ive set out above;
Refund to Mr and Mrs C the amount theyve overpaid each month;
Add simple annual interest of 8% to the refunded overpayments,  running from the 
date of payment  to the date of refund*; and
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If UCB considers it should  deduct income  tax from the interest  element  of my award  it may 
do so, but should give Mr and Mrs C the appropriate documentation, if they ask for it, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre  entitled  to do so.
Ref: DRN4888942