K820x#14complaint
The complaint is brought  by Mr S on behalf of B, a building company.
Bs complaint is about a claim it made on a construction combined insurance policy,  which  
was declined by Zurich Insurance Plc.
background
The claim arises  out of the use of a tractor which was damaged during the course  of some 
excavation works.
Zurich declined the claim in part. They said the policy would only provide cover  for such  a 
claim up to the limit of £10,000, which has now been  settled. They felt the remainder of the 
sums claimed fell within a policy  exclusion  relating to public and products liability.  
Mr S doesnt  think thats right. He doesnt  think Zurich have interpreted  the policy exclusion 
correctly or fairly in the circumstances of his claim and would like them to pay him the 
balance of his claim.
Our investigator considered Bs complaint  and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He felt 
the exclusion Zurich  had applied did relate to Bs claim and that Zurich had applied  it 
correctly in the circumstances. Because of this, the matter has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Bs claim  is for damage to a tractor,  as well as hire costs for a replacement tractor.  
The circumstances surrounding  the claim are that Mr S used his clients  neighbours tractor 
to carry out excavation works on his clients land. It was agreed  between Mr Ss client and 
his neighbour  that the tractor could be used by Mr S for this purpose. Mr S says he wasnt  
privy to any of the conversations surrounding  the tractor being used for this purpose  and as 
far as he was aware, no money changed hands  between his client and the neighbour for 
this. 
Zurich said they were prepared to consider  the claim under the owned plant section of the 
policy which  provides  cover for loss or damage  to such  items whilst  in any situation in
Great Britain. That section of the policy has a limit of £10,000. 
Mr S feels  that the policy should also provide cover under the public and products liability 
section. Zurich have  relied on the following exclusion in that section:
The indemnity granted by this sub-section shall not apply to or include:
5. loss of or damage to property  belonging  to the Insured or held in trust by or borrowed, 
rented, leased  or hired for use by the Insured
Zurich say the tractor  was essentially  borrowed from Mr Ss clients neighbour so the claim is 
excluded. Mr S doesnt think thats  right.  He says the tractor was borrowed  by his client and 
Ref: DRN40009732not him, so the exclusion doesnt  apply.  Like our investigator,  I think  Mr Ss point is 
undermined by how he said the arrangement to use the tractor came about  when he 
discussed the matter with Zurichs loss adjuster in 2017. In an email he said This 
recommendation was made jointly by myself and (my client) and a verbal agreement was 
made with (the neighbour).  So I think its more  likely  than not that Mr S was a party  to the 
discussions to use the tractor. And I dont think the use of it can, in those circumstances, be 
interpreted as anything  other than borrowing it.
Mr S has, through his representative said that its possible the tractor  wasnt in fact 
borrowed- but rather hired by Mr Ss client from his neighbour. I havent seen any evidence 
of that - and Mr S has made  it very clear that the arrangement  was made  without any money 
changing hands. And from what  Ive seen Im satisfied that he was privy to the agreement  to 
borrow the tractor.
Because of the findings Ive made  about the exclusion applicable to Mr Ss claim, I dont 
think its necessary for me to address any of the points made by Mr S about the remaining 
policy exclusions. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Bs complaint against Zurich Insurance  PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4000973