K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Ms C complain  about how Coventry Building Society applied two lump sum 
overpayments to their mortgage  account.
Mr A complains on behalf of them both.   
background
Mr A and Ms C have a joint residential  mortgage with Coventry. The majority  of the balance 
is on an interest-only basis with roughly  one quarter on capital  repayment  terms.
In December 2018, Mr A made a telephone overpayment of £4,000 which  he wanted to use 
to reduce the monthly repayments. He was told it would go down by about £7, from around 
£904 to £897. But the subsequent paperwork confirming the overpayment only reduced the 
monthly payment  by 40 pence, which he didnt think was right.  Coventry apologised and 
gave him £50 for providing the wrong information. But it said the revised payment was 
correct. 
Mr A made a second  lump sum payment of £5,000 in January 2019. He was told the monthly 
repayment would reduce  to £844, but the confirmation paperwork showed it would be £895.  
Since then Mr A has asked Coventry  to explain why hes paying almost £52 too much each 
month, but says he hasnt  received  a satisfactory  answer.  
So Mr A complained to this service. As a resolution he wants  us to direct Coventry to apply 
the overpayments the way he intended,  and adjust his monthly  payments to £844 as he was 
told. He said hes planning to ask his accountant to check  his mortgage account  to ensure 
he isnt being  overcharged.
Our investigator explained the limitations  of the role of this service. We arent able to require 
a business to change its systems or the way it does things. He said Mr A can choose to 
employ an accountant to check Coventrys  calculations if he wished.  But apart from giving 
him the wrong  information he couldnt  safely say Coventry had calculated  his mortgage 
incorrectly.  So he thought  £50 compensation was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. So its come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why. 
Mr As mortgage was originally taken  out in 2011  on a fully interest-only (IO) basis  over a 
16 year term (so due to end in 2027). The rate is 1.85% fixed  until 2022. If its repaid in full 
prior to that date an early repayment charge  (ERC) is applicable, but his mortgage terms 
allow him to make overpayments of up to 10 per cent of the total outstanding  balance per 
year without penalty. 
In 2016 lump sum reductions were  made  of £10,000  and £5,000 which reduced the monthly  
repayments. At that time the whole mortgage was on the same interest-only terms, so 
calculating the revised monthly payments was straightforward. 
Ref: DRN43595732In January 2018, the mortgage  was restructured to its current part-and-part  arrangement. 
The majority remains interest-only while a smaller proportion was amended to capital 
repayment (CR) terms. By way of explanation, this means each monthly payment relating to 
that element is made up of the interest, plus a contribution towards repaying the capital. In 
the early years of a CR mortgage a higher proportion of the monthly payment is made up of 
interest. And the proportion of capital being repaid increases over time. So the idea is that 
element will be totally repaid by the end of the term. For the interest-only borrowing, Mr A 
must have  a repayment  vehicle in place (such  as an investment), to clear  it at the end of the 
term. 
Importantly, theres only one mortgage  account,  rather than two sub-accounts for the IO and 
CR elements which could be treated separately. So the mortgage is calculated  as a whole 
with a single  monthly  payment. 
The over-payments made by Mr A are reflected as follows:
End of 2017 Total balance £242,500.64. Interest only portion £177,006
End of 2018 Total balance £232,591.65. Interest only portion £173,006 (reflecting  the 
£4,000 lump sum reduction)
January 2019 Total balance £226,146.76. Interest only portion £168,006 (reflecting  the 
£5,000 lump sum reduction)
Mr A thought  Coventry would recalculate  the interest  on the reduced IO balance  of £168,006 
in isolation, not the total outstanding balance. So using the rate of 1.85% he worked out the 
annual interest on that sum (£3,108.11)  and divided  it by twelve  to achieve  a monthly 
payment of £259.  Which when added to the CR element would  mean a reduced monthly  
payment of £844.  But instead Coventry said his monthly payment would be £895,  because 
although the IO element has been  reduced, the recalculation involves the whole mortgage 
balance. Even with a fixed interest rate product, slight adjustments are often necessary to 
ensure the payments are on track  to fully repay  the borrowing. This may be, for example, 
due to the date the monthly  payment is taken varying from month to month to allow for 
weekends and bank  holidays. If Coventry didnt recalculate the mortgage overall each time 
something changes,  theres a risk it wouldnt  be on track to repay the borrowing within  the 
term.
Its unfortunate Coventrys member of staff gave Mr A the wrong revised monthly  payment. 
But this doesnt  mean Mr A can make Coventry change  the way its systems work so his 
mortgage calculation  can be done the way hed prefer. It has offered Mr A £50 to apologise 
for its mistake, which I think is fair. Although his payments are higher than he hoped (and 
was told) theyd be, Ive seen nothing which makes me think they arent correct. 
Our investigator was right to say we cant carry out a reconstruction of Mr As mortgage  or 
review the calculations to check  them. But its good  practice to review a mortgage 
periodically to make  sure its on track. And this way Mr A is contributing to the capital 
balance, meaning  hell pay slightly less interest  in the long run. 
I can see Coventry has given Mr A two options  to reduce his monthly payment. It will 
recalculate as at January 2019,  taking  into account the payments to that date. Or it can 
apply the overpayments to the CR rather than IO element of his mortgage.  I will leave it to 
Mr A to decide on his next steps in this regard and take any advice  he feels is appropriate.
Ref: DRN43595733I note that Mr A can continue to make annual overpayments of 10% of the outstanding 
balance without penalty. And after 2022 he can make larger overpayments  as the ERC  will 
no longer apply. 
So all things  considered, I think Coventry  has fairly compensated Mr A for its mistake in 
giving him incorrect information. And whilst I appreciate this will be a disappointing  outcome 
for Mr A and Ms C, Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
I leave it to Mr A and Ms C to contact Coventry  if they wish to take either  of the options  set 
out in its final response letter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4359573