K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complained that British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly  refused to pay a claim on his
boiler and central  heating  insurance policy.
background
Mr F took out a policy with British Gas towards  the end of 2017 for a property that he rents
out. In early  2018  British Gas arranged a first service to inspect the heating  system.
A few months later Mr F called British Gas to claim following a carbon monoxide  leak from
the flue. British  Gas said it wouldnt  come  out to inspect the system as Mr F wasnt  covered.
Mr F complained and British Gas agreed to do a second first visit.
British Gas revisited Mr Fs property and said the first engineer  had found multiple faults on
the heating system so the policy wasnt suitable.  That meant the policy  should  have  been
cancelled if Mr F didnt  want  to downgrade it to a service only policy. However,  the policy
wasnt downgraded  or cancelled  and during the second first visit the second engineer also
found multiple faults. For this reason, British Gas cancelled the policy and refunded Mr Fs
premiums, plus interest.
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said hed got an active policy
with British Gas and was still paying  the premiums  each  month.  He said British  Gas hadnt
told him the heating  system hadnt  passed  the inspection or been issued with an alternative
type of cover. He said if hed know this then he would  have made  changes  or taken
alternative cover.
Mr F accepted it was unlikely the flue would have been covered as the policy  only covered
the first metre of the flue. However, he provided an engineers report to say the water  tank
was leaking from the seam and would need  replacing. Mr F thought this should have been
covered. He said hed ended  up replacing the system with a combi boiler instead as      
British Gas hadnt paid for the water  tank. He wanted  British Gas to pay £2,088 as this is 
what it would  have  cost to replace the water  tank. He also asked British Gas to reimburse
the £80 hed paid to call out a different engineer and for the £80 hed paid to compensate  his
tenants for the delays in sorting things out.
British Gas said its engineer told the tenants  that the heating system had failed the
inspection. It said in line with its terms and conditions it was Mr Fs responsibility  to make
sure his tenants passed on the message to him.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 October  2019 where I explained what 
I thought British Gas needed to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
Mr Fs policy covers  the boiler,  controls  and central heating. It also includes cover  for
plumbing, drains, home electrics and an annual inspection. The policy  also says that where
the heating system fails its first service British  Gas will either tell you what needs  to be done
to fix it offer a different  product or cancel the agreement. British Gas said it was sufficient to
tell the tenant  because  the policys definition of "you" includes tenants.
British Gas said on the first inspection  the engineer told the tenant  theyd  need  a different
type of policy and on the second inspection it cancelled the policy.  However, I dont think
thats good enough and Ill now explain  why.
Ref: DRN49052602I can see from British Gas call note with Mr F that the policy should have been cancelled,
due to the faults that were  found at the first visit, if Mr F didnt want a service only policy.
Its unclear exactly what those faults  were but I havent seen anything to show  me that the 
water tank was leaking at that point. British Gas said it would have fed back  to the tenants 
that they would need  a different type of policy.
I can see the work note from the visit says "multiple  faults on system adv gas app check".
But this isnt enough to persuade me of exactly what the engineer said or that the engineer
explained to the tenant that Mr F would  need  to take a different policy instead.
In any event the policy says that only the person named on the statement their spouse,
legal partner or authorised contact can make any amendments to the policy.  Under the
definition of authorised contact it includes  any named person who the policyholders
authorised and agreed can act on his behalf.  I cant see that Mr F made his tenant an
authorised contact And even if the tenant was an authorised contact  then it still seems  that
British Gas made an error in not cancelling  the policy when it didnt get a response from Mr F
accepting the downgraded policy.
Mr F said if hed known  what the faults  were he would have been  able to get them  fixed or
taken out alternative  cover. Its unclear from British Gas notes exactly what the multiple
faults were,  so its hard to know if Mr F would have  been able to get this fixed, how much
that would  have cost or if hed have been able to find a policy elsewhere that would have
covered the system. But British Gas has taken  away his ability  to find this out by not letting
him know about the problem. So, I dont think it would produce  a fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint if I allowed British Gas to turn down  Mr Fs claim on the basis  that
it should have  cancelled his policy sooner. As British Gas hadnt  cancelled the policy, it was
in force  at the time of the claim  and therefore  its fair and reasonable that it should deal with
the claim.
Mr F didnt  think  the flue would have been covered due to it being  over one metre. However
hed like British Gas to cover the claim for the water tank. This seems  to be a fair outcome to
this and its what it would have had to pay for if Mr F hadnt replaced the boiler. British Gas
hasnt given any other reasons why the claim wouldnt be paid and I now think it would  be
difficult for it to assess the damage  given that Mr F had to replace the heating system.
So I think its fair and reasonable for British  Gas to deal with Mr Fs claim for the water tank
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  As Mr Fs had his boiler
replaced British Gas will be unable  to mend  or replace the water tank. Im persuaded by the
information Mr Fs provided that the water  tank needed replacing. And if British  Gas had
covered this claim Mr F is unlikely  to have needed to replace the whole system.
So, I think British Gas should pay Mr F what it would have cost it to replace the water tank.
Mr Fs provided  a quote for £2,088 for this, however Ill consider any submission British  Gas
would like to make to show how much it would have paid to carry out the same work.  As the
policy should have  been in force British Gas can deduct Mr Fs premium from this amount. 
Due to the time Mr Fs been without money he should have had, British Gas should  also add
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year to any settlement amount from the date of the claim
to the date it makes  payment.
I accept that this has caused  Mr F distress and inconvenience as hes had to sort out and
pay for a new boiler as well as deal with the difficulties his tenants  experienced as a result  of
Ref: DRN49052603this. So British Gas should pay Mr F £250 to compensate for this.
Mr F largely  accepted my decision but said I hadnt factored in the £80 hed paid to his 
tenant as compensation in my award  for distress and inconvenience. 
British Gas didnt  agree and said:
the engineer  had found a dangerous situation with the flue when they visited;
the engineer  had a legal obligation  to report this to a responsible person which in this 
case was the tenant;
the tenant disposed of this paperwork;
even if theyd repaired the cylinder  the system would still be dangerous as the flue 
also needed repairing  and this would have meant there still wasnt any hot water;
by replacing the system with a combi  boiler  Mr F removed all opportunity  from them;
a replacement water tank would cost £291;
the system should have automatically  downgraded  the policy but for some reason 
that doesnt appear to have happened.
I then contacted British  Gas and Mr F and said:
Its clear that the policy wasnt downgraded as should have  happened.  And as it was in force  
at the time of the claim  I still think British  Gas should pay it. Ive considered  British  Gas point 
that the repair would have  cost it £291,  but Ive also thought about what would produce  a
fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Fs complaint.
What should have happened here is that British  Gas paid for the repairs for the water  tank.  
Mr F is aware  that the flue would have needed  replacing and has also said hed have 
covered the cost for this. Hes provided me with an invoice to show  this would have cost him
£698.75. As British  Gas turned down  his claim Mr F was left with the option  of paying a total 
of £2,787.12 to replace the whole system,  so he instead decided to pay a few hundred 
pounds extra to buy a combi boiler
Far from Mr F taking  away British  Gas opportunity by doing this. I think  British Gas took 
away Mr Fs opportunity to only pay £698.75  for repairs. Mr F has told us that if British Gas 
had repaired  the water tank he would have paid for the flue and Im persuaded
by what hes said. I cant see that Mr F had any other option but to pay for repairs  or to 
replace the system given that British Gas had turned  down his claim. It seems that Mr F 
should have only paid £698.75  Instead  of over £3,000.
I dont intend to tell British  Gas to pay the difference between the cost of the repair to the flue 
(£698.75) and the combi boiler (over £3,000) because Mr F took this option when he could  
have had the tank and cylinder repaired for slightly less. But I do think British Gas left Mr F 
with no option  but to pay an additional £2,088.37 to repair the water tank. So, I think  the fair 
and reasonable outcome is for British Gas to pay him this amount, as this is the loss hes 
suffered due to it unfairly turning down his claim. British Gas can deduct the premium from 
this amount, as its fair that Mr F pays for the cover
British Gas still hasnt  provided me with a copy of any paperwork the engineer provided to 
the tenant. And I find It strange  that a tenant  wouldnt let their landlord  know  if they were told 
the heating system was dangerous.  However,  I dont think  I need to make  a finding on this
because ultimately  British Gas didnt downgrade  the policy as It should  have done.
Ref: DRN49052604Due to the time Mr F has been without the money  British Gas should add interest to the 
£2,088.37 at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr F paid for the combi boiler to the 
date it makes payment.
I still think £250 is a fair amount of compensation  and this takes into account the £80 Mr F 
paid to his tenant.
British Gas still didnt  agree.  It said it hadnt  turned down the claim for the water tank and 
would have undertaken that work if required once the flue had been replaced. It said Mr F 
had mistakenly believed it had turned down the whole  claim  rather just the part that wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen  anything to persuade me that Mr F mistakenly believed the whole claim had 
been turned  down and British Gas would have  covered the claim for the water  tank once the 
flue had been  repaired. 
I cant see anywhere that British Gas told him it would cover  part of his claim if he got the 
flue repaired. In fact, British Gas said Mr Fs policy should have been downgraded to service 
only, told him there was no cover  under the policy when he called to claim and ultimately 
sent him his premium  back. So, that gave him the impression that there was no cover under 
the policy. I can also see from emails  Mr F sent to British Gas that he said he would have  
paid for the flue. But British Gas doesnt seem to have told him it would have covered the 
water tank or to have given him that option  at any point.
I remain satisfied that Mr F thought he had no option  but to pay an additional £2,088.37. I 
dont think he should have had to pay this as he had a policy in force and British Gas should  
have covered his claim for the water tank.  To put Mr F back  in the position  he should have 
been in, the fair and reasonable outcome is for British Gas to pay Mr F £2,088.37, plus 
interest at 8% simple  per year from the date he paid for the new boiler to the date it makes 
payment. It can deduct any premium  from this amount. It should also pay him £250 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN49052605my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance  Limited to:
pay Mr F £2,088.37 towards his new boiler;
add interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mr F paid for the new boiler  to the 
date it makes payment1;
deduct his premium from that amount  if it chooses;
pay Mr F £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
It should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr Fs accepted my final decision. If it pays  
later than this, it should add interest  to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple  per year 
from the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If British Gas considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing  this
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4905260