K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Advanced  Payment Solutions Limited (trading  as Cashplus) didnt do 
enough to help him when  hed been  the victim of a scam.
background
On 14 September  2018 Mr R made  two separate  online payments totalling £2,301, to what  
he thought was a genuine travel company; 
-a payment of £2,000.00 at 12:45pm; and 
-a payment of £301.00 at 2.07pm
Mr R thought he was purchasing flights  for him and his family to attend  his late grandfathers  
memorial. As Mr R had previously made a deposit payment of £250 on 7 August 2018 from 
an account held with another bank, for which hed been sent what  appeared to him at the 
time to be a genuine  receipt - he had no reason to suspect anything was wrong.  
After the payments had been  made, Mr R was expecting to receive  the e-tickets  for the 
flights straightaway  but these never  arrived. He chased the agent  - who gave excuses. 
Mr R started to become  suspicious and made  some  enquires. He quickly realised hed been 
a victim of a cruel scam. So later, on the same  day the payment transfers had been made, 
Mr R contacted Cashplus to tell it what had happened, and to see if there  is anything  it could 
do to help. 
The person  Mr R spoke  to told him a faster payment retrieval request will be made and 
advised him to contact  the beneficiary  bank B  which Mr R did.
Between 16 and 20 September 2018, Mr R tried to contact Cashplus several times, but he 
was unable to get through. Cashplus has explained  this was due to system issues it was 
experiencing at that time. Mr R did finally manage to speak  with Cashplus on 
20 September 2018. He was unhappy and complained; 
-hed been  unable to speak with Cashplus  over the last 4 days;
-he was disappointed that Cashplus couldnt  refund the money straightaway;  
-he was given incorrect information  when he first reported the scam; and
-he thought  Cashplus couldve done  more to prevent the payments being made, or to 
recover the money from B. 
Cashplus wrote  to Mr R on 11 October 2018.  It recognised it had not given  Mr R correct 
information, there were  some customer service issues and a delay in reporting the fraud  to 
B. It offered a sum of £50 as a gesture  of goodwill as full and final settlement. It didnt agree 
to giving a refund of £2,301 because Mr R had authorised the payments and even if it had 
contacted B when  it was first notified by Mr R of the scam, it wouldnt have been  able to 
recover any funds  as the money had already been  spent by the scammer.  
Mr R rejected the offer as he still felt Cashplus  should reimburse  the £2,301 and brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN40061522One of our investigators  looked into things and thought Mr Rs complaint  should be partially 
upheld. She concluded that; 
-She didnt think Cashplus had failed in its obligations when it didnt flag the payment 
as potentially fraudulent. 
-She agrees  there were delays  in reporting  the fraud to B but was satisfied that had 
Cashplus contacted  B as soon as it was aware  of the fraud  - it wouldnt have made a 
difference in the circumstances.
-And whilst  she agrees there were several service  failings  in how Cashplus handled 
Mr Rs fraud  claim.  She doesnt  agree, the poor service Mr R received means he 
should receive a full refund of the fraudulent payment. 
-She does however  think the £50 offered by Cashplus didnt fairly compensate Mr R 
for the trouble and upset he experienced. She recommended  £200 as a more 
appropriate and fairer compensation award.  She explained this was because 
Cashpluss poor customer service  and failure to respond in a timely manner caused 
Mr R significant trouble and upset at what was already very difficult  time. 
Cashplus didnt agree with the investigators  findings, so the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Firstly, Id like to say Im sorry  for Mr Rs loss and to hear of whats happened, when trying to 
book flights to attend his late grandfathers  memorial. I can understand  why he wants  to do 
all he can to try and get his money back. But what I need to decide  is whether Cashplus has 
done anything  wrong that has caused Mr R to lose out. 
There are three aspects to Mr Rs complaint against Cashplus. Ill address each one 
separately;
1.Should Cashplus have prevented  the payments from being made? 
2.Could  Cashplus have  done more to help recover  Mr Rs funds? 
3.Customer service  failings
should Cashplus have  prevented the payments from being made? 
There are several discrepancies between Mr Rs account of events;
 
-On 14 September  2018 Mr R reported  the scam  to Cashplus. He said hed made two 
payments from his Cashplus account for flight tickets, but no tickets were  received.
-On 20 September  2018 Mr R told Cashplus  he never made the payment  transfers, 
someone else mustve had access to his account. He told Cashplus,  he received a 
phone call (UK landline number)  from who he believed was the travel  company and 
made the payments by card. 
  
Ref: DRN40061523-On 16 October 2018 Mr R brought his complaint to our service and told us the 
payments were transferred online and not made  by card. He subsequently told the 
investigator looking into his complaint, that his partner made the payments. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said, along  with the technical evidence provided by Cashplus 
and Im satisfied Mr R either; made the payments himself or consented to them being made. 
Mr R believed he was dealing with a legitimate travel  company, he did not suspect that the 
person he was making payments totalling £2,301 to, was a scammer. The money was sent 
in good faith  for flight tickets. In simple terms this means at the time the payments were 
made  Mr R wanted to make them and authorised them to be made.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And Ive taken  that into account  when deciding what  is 
fair and reasonable in this case.  
There are, however, some situations  where  we believe that banks,  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes  and best practice  standards, shouldnt have taken their customers 
authorisation instruction at face value  or should  have  looked at the wider circumstances 
surrounding the transaction before making the payment. 
So, Ive gone  onto consider whether Cashplus  should reasonably  have been expected to 
identify that these payments werent  for genuine  reasons or that it was something Mr R didnt 
want to do. And I dont  think  there  was anything  suspicious or unusual  about the payment 
that would  have suggested  to Cashplus that Mr R was being  scammed. The amount and 
type of payment that Mr R made wasnt  particularly out of character and nothing about the 
payment wouldve indicated to Cashplus that it wasnt legitimate. Consequently, in the 
circumstances I dont  think  Cashplus did anything wrong by following the instructions Mr R 
gave and sending  the money.  
Its unfortunate that Mr R has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have 
been very upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Cashplus shouldve acted  to stop the transaction in these circumstances. I cant  hold 
Cashplus responsible  for Mr R having  fallen victim to a scam. So, I cant fairly  ask Cashplus 
to compensate Mr R for his loss.
could Cashplus have  done more to help recover  Mr Rs funds? 
Mr R has said he had trouble trying to get through to Cashplus on 14 September  2018. Its 
not clear exactly why he wasnt able to get through immediately, but I can see from his call 
logs that the earliest time he attempted to call Cashplus  to report  the fraud on 
14 September 2018 was 18.07. He eventually managed to speak  to someone at 18.30,  who 
told Mr R the next steps would  be to raise a faster payment  retrieval  request, to recall  his 
payment - this information was not correct. And at this time Cashplus did not contact the 
beneficiary bank. 
Between 16 and 20 September 2018 Cashplus had a system  outage   due to which  
customer payments were being declined. Whilst this matter didnt directly  impact Mr R, the 
issue generated a lot of calls  making it extremely difficult for Mr R to speak to customer  
service and obtain an update on his fraud claim.  
Ref: DRN40061524Mr R was finally able to speak to someone  on 20 September 2018. He raised a formal  
complaint about  Cashpluss handling of his fraud claim. 
Cashpluss first attempt  at contacting  the beneficiary  bank was two weeks after it had been  
notified of the scam by Mr R on 27 September 2018   but it was unsuccessful.  It then made 
a further attempt on 10 October  2018, at which point the beneficiary  bank informed it  the 
funds had been withdrawn within two hours of being received and no funds remained.
Given what has happened I can see why Mr R strongly believes if it wasnt for Cashpluss 
failures and its delays in correctly  dealing with his fraud claim, it wouldve been  able to 
retrieve his money. 
Ive carefully considered  everything and whilst I agree Cashplus failed to contact the 
beneficiary bank  straightaway  to see if any of Mr Rs money  was still in the receiving account 
and could be retrieved.  Ive looked at the transaction log for the receiving account, to see 
whether it wouldve made  a difference. But unfortunately, even if Cashplus had made 
contact on 14 September  2018, by the earliest  time Mr R had tried to report the matter 
(18.06), all his money  had gone   so regrettably  Cashplus wouldnt have been  able to 
retrieve any of Mr Rs money.  So, for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont believe it would be 
fair to ask Cashplus to reimburse Mr Rs losses.
 
customer service  issues  
Mr Rs testimony  has been consistent  in relation  to the purpose of the trip  it was booked  for 
his late grandfathers  memorial service. He was due to travel  with his family  on the 
1 October 2018. Mr R has evidenced he tried to call Cashplus several  times  between 16 and 
20 September 2018 to get an update without success. Whilst I appreciate technical issues  
happen and Cashplus  has apologised for this, Ive still considered the impact  this had on 
Mr R at what was already an extremely difficult time, especially given the incorrect  
information he was provided about  the recovery of his funds on 14 September 2018. 
Having looked  at everything that has happened  here, I dont think  that the £50 that Cashplus  
has offered to Mr R is an appropriate amount to compensate him. I agree the higher amount 
suggested by our investigator  of £200  for the loss of expectation, worry and frustration is 
more appropriate.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I partially  uphold  this complaint. 
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  must pay Mr R £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4006152