K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that 1 Answer Insurance Services Ltd (1 Answer) is seeking to recover  
money from him in respect of a motor insurance  premium that he doesnt think  he owes.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  
to, and forms part of, this decision.
Both Mr U and 1 Answer accepted my provisional decision. 1 Answer  has paid Mr U the 
compensation of £150 I recommended. A claim in Mr Us name was raised with FSCS. As a 
result, Mr U received a refund  of £1,442.61, which he has paid to 1 Answer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr U and 1 Answer have accepted and acted on what I said in my provisional decision, I 
find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. It just remains  for me to restate that 1 
Answer should now treat the matter as concluded, as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and direct 1 Answer  Insurance  Services  Ltd:
not to try to recover any balance  of the chargeback  refund of £1,657.39 Mr U 
received by bringing an action against  him for debt;
to treat the debt as written  off; and
to ensure no negative  information about it is recorded on Mr Us credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43833452COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 3 MAY 2019
complaint
Mr U complains that 1 Answer Insurance Services Ltd (1 Answer) is seeking to recover money from 
him in respect of a motor insurance premium  that he doesnt think he owes.
background
In November 2017, Mr U arranged a motor  insurance  policy through 1 Answer,  acting as broker, with 
an insurance  company established abroad but authorised  to carry  on business  in the UK. He paid      
1 Answer the premium, which amounted  to more  than £3,100, using his bank payment card.
In May 2018,  1 Answer notified Mr U that the insurance  company had gone into liquidation,  and he 
would need to arrange  alternative insurance with immediate effect. Mr U says he asked 1 Answer 
when he would be compensated for what he had paid for cover he had lost. It couldnt  say, but 
suggested he contact the insurance compensation fund in the country where the insurance  company 
was incorporated. He did so, but it couldnt help.
He says he then contacted the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), but at that stage it 
wasnt in a position to help. Finally he approached  the bank which issued the card he had used to pay 
the premium to 1 Answer. His bank made chargeback claims by way of partial refund  totalling 
Ref: DRN43833453£1,657.39 from 1 Answers  bank. These werent defended by 1 Answer or its bank. So Mr U received 
this amount back from 1 Answers bank.
1 Answer then wrote to Mr U demanding  that he pay it amounts ranging from £2,265.59 to £3,140.59. 
It said he should then pursue his claim  against FSCS for the unused portion  of his premium. Mr U 
thought this was unreasonable and complained  to us.
1 Answer said it had told Mr U in August 2018 that FSCS was now accepting claims under  its scheme  
for the refund  of unused premium. So Mr U should  now claim through FSCS, but return to 1 Answer 
the payment he had reclaimed through its bank.  Otherwise he would  receive a double benefit.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that when the 
insurance company went into liquidation, Mr U was out of pocket by an amount which to him was 
significant. 1 Answer didnt approach him with details  of how to lodge a claim with FSCS  until August 
2018. By then he had already approached  his own bank to make a chargeback claim, which she 
thought was entirely  reasonable.
1 Answers  bank  notified  it of the chargeback claim  in July 2018. Either 1 Answer didnt respond, or it 
was unsuccessful in defending the claim. Either way, a partial refund was made  through the 
chargeback process,  and it was now too late to reopen that process. In these  circumstances, she 
didnt think it was fair or reasonable for 1 Answer to try to raise a debt against Mr U.
So she said 1 Answer should now write  off the debt and ensure no negative information about it was 
recorded on Mr Us credit file. She thought claiming  different large amounts, and threatening to place  
the debt with debt collectors, had caused Mr U a lot of distress. So she recommended that 1 Answer 
pay him compensation of £150  for this.
1 Answer responded to say, in summary, that it had told Mr U how to make a claim through  FSCS  as 
soon as it became aware of this. It didnt  think Mr U was entitled to a refund because of the insurance  
company going into liquidation. So he shouldnt have sought  a chargeback in the way he did.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I agree with the investigator that in the circumstances which faced  Mr U, namely being  out 
of pocket by a large amount,  and with neither  1 Answer  nor anyone else at that stage  offering  any 
assistance, it was entirely reasonable for him to seek a partial chargeback  through  his bank.
When goods or services  arent  delivered,  chargeback can offer an alternative remedy to card 
customers. The procedure is technical, and isnt always successful. But on this occasion it was.
I have looked at FSCSs website dealing with the insolvency of this insurance company. It now makes 
it clear that policyholders  can make a claim for a refund of unused  premium, but limited to 90% of the 
unused portion.
It also points  out that policyholders may instead be able to claim  a refund from their card company. 
But it makes  it clear that a policyholder cant claim  twice  once from FSCS and again from their card 
company. So no question of double benefit will arise.
I also note that some  brokers  apparently made arrangements for replacement insurance  to be put in 
place for their customers, and in such circumstances  FSCS will arrange for any compensation to be 
paid to the broker to pass on to the new insurer. But it doesnt seem  that 1 Answer offered that facility 
to Mr U.
Ref: DRN43833454Its clear that two possible remedies  were available  to Mr U  chargeback through  his bank or an 
FSCS claim. He acted entirely reasonably in making a chargeback claim, and it was successful. The 
fact that an alternative  FSCS  remedy (to the extent of 90%)  is now available doesnt mean its 
reasonable that he should  hand back  the refund he has received.
However, if 1 Answer  now wishes Mr U to lodge a claim with FSCS, and is willing  to assist  him with 
the procedure and meet any out of pocket expenses of the process, I think its reasonable that Mr U 
should take all reasonable steps do so, and on the basis that any amount recovered will be paid to     
1 Answer. This action by Mr U I will call pursue  an FSCS claim.
If Mr U pursues an FSCS claim when  requested  by 1 Answer, or 1 Answer doesnt make such  a 
request, then irrespective of the success of any claim  I dont think its fair for 1 Answer to try to 
recover the refund by bringing  an action against Mr U for debt. I agree  with the investigator that it 
should treat the debt as written off and should also ensure no negative  information  about  it is 
recorded on Mr Us credit file.
However, if Mr U fails to pursue an FSCS claim  when  so requested by 1 Answer,  this service  wont 
take any further action to prevent or interfere with any action by 1 Answer to recover the refund.
In respect of its actions to date in trying to make him repay  the refund, I agree  that 1 Answer should 
pay Mr U compensation  of £150 for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused him.
my provisional  decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and direct 1 Answer Insurance  Services Ltd:
1.If Mr U pursues an FSCS claim when  requested  by 1 Answer, or 1 Answer doesnt make such  
a request, and irrespective  of the success  of any claim:
not to try to recover the refund by bringing an action against Mr U for debt;
to treat the debt as written off; and
to ensure no negative information about it is recorded on Mr Us credit file.
2. To pay Mr U compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr U to accept  or reject my 
decision before 17 May 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4383345