K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains, on behalf of him and his wife, that Santander UK Plc sold them two 
separate policies  each  with life cover of £5,000,  but has recently  said they have  just one joint 
policy that will only pay out £5,000 once upon  eithers first death.
background
An adjudicator at this service  found  no evidence of the existence of a separate policy  and 
said the documentation showed this policy  was clearly a joint one offering a single £5,000  
pay-out in the event of eithers death.  
He also thought it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs B could have had individual  policies with 
combined cover of £10,000  for the same cost as a joint life policy  with cover of £5,000.
Mr B disagreed, repeating his earlier points. He also said the illustration showed a different  
premium to what he is actually paying. 
The adjudicator explained that this was just an illustration and L & G would,  after 
underwriting, have  confirmed the actual premium.  
Mr B also said that L & G had said it will refund the premiums. 
The adjudicator thought  this was unlikely but was a matter for Mr and Mrs B and L & G to 
discuss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Santander has provided what information  it has relating to this 2005 sale and it all refers  to a 
joint policy which would only pay out £5,000  once, on the death of the first person. This is 
clear from the quotes, illustrations and other  internal paperwork (which Mr and Mrs B may 
not have been provided with).
There is no persuasive evidence to indicate  that it sold Mr and Mrs B two policies or that this 
policy provided a total of £10,000 in cover. In my view, this is simply a case of 
misunderstanding. But Ive seen nothing to indicate that Santander is responsible  for this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Ref: DRN47001552Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700155