K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).
background
Mrs H took out a mortgage  in 2004  which was set up without PPI.
In 2008, when she took out a further  advance, Mrs H also took out TMPP cover to protect  
her mortgage repayments in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
Mrs H was unhappy with Halifaxs  response when she complained about the way it sold her 
PPI, so she brought her complaint to us.
We investigated how the PPI was sold to Mrs H. Our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding her complaint.   
Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicator. Her main complaints are that Halifax didnt make her 
aware that the PPI was optional. Mrs H told us that she wouldnt have opted for it if she 
hadnt been led to think it would improve her chances of getting  the extra borrowing she 
wanted. She said she didnt need it as she had sick pay through work and other ways she 
could've covered the mortgage monthly  repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Heres why I say this.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs H to recall in detail what  was said when she 
arranged her further advance and the PPI. So what she says about the way she was sold 
the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have  to look at 
all the available  information and take into account the wider circumstances. 
Ideally Id expect  the paperwork to show whats likely  to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax  couldnt  provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold  the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that all the paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Halifax or Mrs H to have kept this. 
But Ive seen enough information to make me think that Halifax made Mrs H aware that the 
PPI was optional  and she chose to take it out. Heres  why I say this.
Mrs H had taken out her mortgage  without also having PPI  so I think  shed have known it 
was up to her to choose if she wanted to add it to her account
Ref: DRN48389452I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mrs H arranged to sign up to the TMPP. But 
this service has seen examples of various  forms Halifax used to sell the TMPP to customers  
who took out PPI in a Halifax branch around the time Mrs H did. We think  the TMPP 
paperwork wouldve made it clear  to customers that it was up to them to choose if they 
wanted PPI. Ive no clear  reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal  sales 
process here. So I think its likely that PPI was explained and recommended for Mrs H.
Ive also seen some of Mrs Hs paperwork,  including the mortgage offer that Halifax  sent her. 
This clearly says that she didnt have to take out any PPI with her mortgage.  
But it looks  as if Mrs H must have decided she wanted PPI because Halifax  then sent her 
paperwork confirming shed been accepted  for the cover shed applied for, followed  by a 
welcome letter in May 2008.  This clearly shows that Mrs H had taken out cover to protect 
her mortgage repayments along with life and critical  illness cover. 
The welcome pack included a page headed:  Important Information which made  it clear  
that the cover was optional. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time - and 
Mrs H was increasing the amount secured on her property. Mrs Hs home couldve been  at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent  paid in full and on time - and she alone was 
responsible for making the monthly repayments. So, I can see why she mightve  felt PPI was 
useful to have  at the time. Its completely understandable  if Mrs H has forgotten this now.  
But, based on all the information Ive seen  and been told, it seems to me most  likely that 
Mrs H was persuaded of the benefits  of protecting her mortgage  monthly  repayments  from 
that point on and she decided to buy cover. On balance, I cant  fairly say that the policy  
wasnt presented as optional or that Mrs H didnt choose to have it. 
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Mrs H. If a financial business makes  a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information  in a clear  way. 
It looks like PPI was suitable  for Mrs H based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances when  
the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. And although Mrs H had good sick pay entitlement through 
work this doesnt mean that Halifaxs recommendation was unsuitable.  
PPI couldve protected  Mrs H if she was disabled or too sick to work as well as providing 
cover if Mrs H lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim  this was longer  than shed have 
been able to rely on getting full sick pay through work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of any other income from work or any redundancy 
payment she might  have  got, which I think couldve been useful if Mrs H found  she had extra 
costs as a result of being too unwell  to go back to work, or she lost her job. 
Relying on family to help out in the event of money  problems  isnt as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances  can change unexpectedly.
Ref: DRN48389453Mrs H has said if necessary  she couldve  asked  for an interest only mortgage or a payment 
holiday, or taken  a lodger  or relied  on government benefits if necessary. And Ive taken into 
account that she mentioned having  managed fine without PPI when shed taken  a period off 
work previously. But PPI provided Mrs H with dependable protection that she wouldve been 
able to rely on in the long term as she couldve made repeated  claims on the policy. There 
was no guarantee  that a lender would agree to offer a new mortgage deal or allow a 
payment holiday  (which also adds to the overall  cost of the mortgage). I dont know if shed 
always have been  able to get a lodger when she needed one  or how she wouldve 
managed if or when  rooms werent let. 
I dont know if Mrs H wouldve always had savings to rely on if she couldnt work. And the 
policy protected her mortgage for longer  than the amount of savings shes  mentioned 
wouldve lasted if shed  had to rely on these  to cover her monthly  outgoings when she wasnt  
able to work. 
Having PPI meant Mrs H could be sure she would  be able to make  her mortgage monthly 
repayments even  if she couldnt work. I think this couldve been an important consideration 
at the time for Mrs H  even if shes now forgotten this. And I think  PPI was suitable for her, 
looking at what I know about  her circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mrs Hs case when she took out the PPI. So, I dont think having more  information about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the cost and benefits  of the PPI were made clear to Mrs H when she bought  
the policy. But she chose  to take out the cover  when she didnt  have to  including  the extra 
benefit she took out over and above  the amount needed to cover her mortgage  monthly  
repayments. So she seems to have specifically wanted PPI at the time and selected the 
cover amount she was happy to pay for. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed,  as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped  Mrs H buying PPI. So I dont find she has lost out as a result of anything  
Halifax may have done wrong during the sales process.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mrs H has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view.  I appreciate  she feels  
very strongly  about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come  as a 
disappointment. In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points shes  raised that have an 
impact on the outcome  of the complaint  and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Ref: DRN48389454my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4838945