K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  their experience with National Westminster Bank Plc when 
arranging a mortgage product switch. 
Background
Mr and Mrs J held a mortgage  with NatWest. Their fixed  rate was coming to an end in 
October 2018. In July 2018 Mr and Mrs J approached NatWest  about a product switch  
application. They also applied  for a further  advance to repay some other debt, but their 
application was declined. On 15 October 2018  the product switch  meeting went  ahead.
The signed  paperwork reached NatWest on 18 October 2018. On 26 October 2018 the 
product switch took place and the product  fee was taken. NatWest accepted there  had been  
a delay when  applying the new rate, so it was backdated to 18 October  2018  and an interest 
adjustment was applied.  
Mr and Mrs J say that because of lack of contact and the fact that two online (DigiDocs) 
facilities were  set up - this led to some  confusion.  They  couldnt  originally  sign for the product 
switch online  and when  they were able to, they received  no communication  or confirmation  
that the mortgage was going  ahead. 
Because of this, they didnt expect  the fee to be taken when it was and therefore didnt plan 
ahead to ensure  sufficient  funds. They were unable to further use their current  account  and 
missed an investment opportunity. They say they lost out on around £40,000 as a result and 
this has impacted them financially and personally.
Mr and Mrs J also complain their new monthly payments were not applied  in time. They say 
they were told the new monthly payment would apply from November 2018.  NatWest says 
the confirmation of new payment letter included the right information and stated the 
payments would change from December 2018.  But it accepted that Mr and Mrs J were told 
the wrong information over the phone, so agreed to refund  the difference between the two 
direct debit amounts  and applied a credit of £138.18  to their mortgage account.  
NatWest upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint about  the level of service provided, including  the 
fact that a second DigiDocs  facility  was set up. It paid £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  NatWest didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about the product fee being 
debited from their bank account too soon.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept NatWests resolution  so brought  their complaint to our service.  An 
investigator looked into things and felt NatWests offer was fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the opinion. Because an agreement has not been 
reached, this case has been passed  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs J approached  NatWest to discuss a product switch a few months in advance  of 
their fixed  rate ending.  At the same time, they enquired about borrowing some more  money  
to consolidate  some debt,  but their application was declined. NatWests notes suggest  that 
Ref: DRN44575892Mr and Mrs J wanted to shop around for rates with other lenders but then returned  to 
proceed with them.  The product switch  meeting went ahead on 15 October 2018. 
Mr and Mrs J have described  some delays they faced during the process of the application  
both before and after the product switch meeting taking  place  on 15 October 2018. The key 
facts about this part of the complaint arent  in dispute. NatWest has admitted it got things 
wrong. So, I have  to decide whether the things it has done to put things right, including  the 
amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that NatWest should compensate  Mr and Mr J for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays during their application. However, I also think  its 
important to explain that, as a service,  our awards are designed to compensate  consumers - 
not punish organisations. 
I think NatWest  recognised the seriousness  of its mistakes and took steps  to reduce the 
impact of its actions. It recognised that it couldve provided a better  service  and admitted  that 
a second DigiDocs  link was sent because it took down the wrong email address for Mrs J. 
NatWest paid Mr and Mrs J £300  compensation, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, especially as it took further steps  to rectify the implications of its actions. 
NatWest backdated  the product switch date to 18 October 2018 (the date the product switch  
paperwork reached NatWest). It also refunded the difference between the November and 
December mortgage  payments  because it acknowledged incorrect  information  was given 
about when the new monthly payments would take effect. 
Whilst these steps put Mr and Mrs J back into the position  they would have been in had the 
delays and miscommunication not happened. Mr and Mrs Js main  concern is around how 
they were further  impacted by the overall  issue. Ive considered what  Mr and Mrs J have said 
but I dont think  I can reasonably expect NatWest to do anything  more. I say this because I 
think its more likely  Mr and Mrs J were aware the £995 product fee was to be debited  from 
their account  and ought to have reasonably expected this to happen around the time that it 
did. I will explain why.
When a product fee is applicable, the usual process is to present options  for applying the 
fee, where applicable. NatWest says that during  the product switch appointment, it 
discussed the £995 product fee and offered the options of adding  the fee to the mortgage  
balance, paying  it upfront  or looking at rates with no fee. Mr and Mrs J chose to pay the fee 
upfront and card details  were taken for the payment to be made. So Im satisfied they knew  
a fee was applicable  and that that it would be debited from their bank account. And because 
Mr and Mrs Js fixed rate had by now already expired and they were paying the standard  
variable rate  I think its likely the intention was to arrange the product switch  soon. 
Mr and Mrs J say they told NatWest they needed  notice  to transfer funds  to cover the fees 
and received no indication that the mortgage  was going ahead. Whilst its clear NatWest  
didnt get everything  right,  I think there is enough  to suggest Mr and Mrs J ought to have 
been aware that the fee would be payable, and soon. I say this because  they successfully 
signed the mortgage application paperwork on 18 October 2018. And in any event I cant  
see that NatWest could reasonably foresee the losses  that Mr and Mrs J have described to 
be a result of its actions. 
So, for the reasons Ive explained  above, I think NatWest has taken reasonable steps to 
compensate Mr and Mrs J for its mistakes  and wont be asking it do anything more.
Ref: DRN44575893My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4457589