K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In July 2019 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I wasnt  intending to 
uphold his complaint. 
In summary  I said that I thought the PPI was compulsory in 1993 with the particular  
mortgage he took out. I also said I thought  Mr R understood  the PPI was compulsory for a 
period of two years  during  his fixed interest rate term.  When this period came  to an end I 
said that I was satisfied Mr R would still have known he was paying for PPI and if he no 
longer wanted  it he could  have cancelled it with Nationwide.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing a final decision.
Nationwide confirmed it was of the view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold and had no further  
information it wanted to add to the correspondence already provided.
Mr R confirmed hed received the provisional  decision. Mr R accepted he took out the PPI as 
a package with Nationwide  for the term of the initial two year fixed rate interest mortgage 
and that this was a condition of this particular mortgage.
However, in his reply  Mr R disputed the conditions and information surrounding the change 
of state of the mortgage after the two years fixed interest rate term came  to an end.
I will set out in summary what hes told us. Even if I havent mentioned a particular point 
raised I want to assure Mr R that I have carefully looked at all the information he has 
provided.
Nationwides correspondence dated 3rd March  1995 states Notice of Change of 
payments at the foot of the page  in bold large type and identifies three payment 
details the basic  mortgage payment, property insurance and mortgage  protection/life 
cover. And the second paragraph of the letter stated  if you wish to consider other  
options which may be available. 
Mr R points out this letter  only referred  to the mortgage not to PPI and there was no 
option to use other  products for the PPI as there was when Mr R took out his 2 year 
fixed term product or a review of his circumstances to establish  if he needed the PPI. 
Mr R says Nationwide expected him to pay without any justification and he paid 
because he thought it was part of the mortgage. 
It is this letter Mr R considers to be a mis-selling of the PPI and the house  cover as 
he says Nationwide  shouldnt have taken money for the PPI and house  cover which  
he never requested.  Mr R says Nationwide  took advantage of the change  in the 
mortgage status to create an opportunity for an ongoing and continuing  sale of the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN48472582Mr R says he used an advisor  to obtain the mortgage and as he was never informed 
by Nationwide  that his 2 year fixed deal was at an end and that he was no longer 
required to pay for the PPI he continued  to pay as part of the mortgage.  Nationwide 
should have consulted him.
Mr R says that I was incorrect in saying Mr R had said he didnt need  the PPI when 
he took out the mortgage. He says he has stated after two years fixed  rate came to 
an end he did not need it. He took out the initial PPI because it was a condition of the 
mortgage.
Mr R said that Nationwide  needed to give him enough information on taking out the 
initial two year fixed rate term;  then when it ended and transferred to the new variable 
rate mortgage and its PPI cover, he should  also have received the same information 
for Nationwide  to continue to sell the PPI and house cover products  and he did not.
He should  have been given more information  when it transferred to a new variable  
rate. He does not understand how I could say no new sale took place  after the two 
year fixed  term came  to an end as a new variable interest rate is a different product 
which would need a new sale which required supporting information.
Mr R asks why there was no new sale there was no review of his circumstances in 
relation to the new variable rate mortgage  and why there  was no question  as to 
whether Mr R as the customer  still wanted  the PPI.
Mr R thought I made a prejudicial  comment when I said there was nothing on the 
paperwork which would have led Mr R to think he had to continue  with PPI on the 
variable rate.
In my provisional decision,  I made  some  pre-judgments about  Mr Rs intentions, 
understandings and actions in relation to the PPI.
All in all clear and transparent information around the change in requirements and 
demands of Mr Rs mortgage responsibilities should  have been  provided. Mr R says 
to his knowledge none were.  He says the moment the original PPI ended all the 
foregoing information  and options should  have  been  put before him.
Mr R says he never considered claiming  when he got ill or injured and nor did he 
claim when he retired and was not then employed because it was part of the 
mortgage.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision, Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN48472583To be clear Im dealing  with the PPI not the house  cover to which Mr R has referred to. 
The first thing for me to deal with is any perceived pre-judgments  that Mr R thinks  I made in 
my provisional decision. I want to assure Mr R that I am impartial and in making my decision 
I have looked  at all the information  available as well as taking into account  what  both parties 
have told me. Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete I need to make  my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is, whats more likely.  So where I said I 
thought Mr R would have known he was paying for PPI and he could have called Nationwide  
if he no longer wanted  it, it was on the basis that I had concluded that Mr R knew he had the 
PPI from the paperwork  I reviewed for the period of a fixed term of two years.  So on balance 
I found its more likely that Mr R was in a position  to question the cover if he no longer 
wanted it after the fixed term mortgage  came  to an end. And as the PPI covered a mortgage 
I think the cover could have been  useful if Mr R needed to make  a claim.
Mr R says he never once considered making  a claim. But insurance is there  to protect an 
unforeseen eventuality it does  not mean that because no claim was made  it wasnt  useful.
Mr R refers me to the letter of March 1995. This is the notification to Mr R that his fixed  term 
mortgage had come to an end. The letter is headed in block  capitals Expiry of fixed  interest 
rate mortgage product to variable mortgage  rate. This letter would have  told Mr R that he no 
longer had his fixed interest rate mortgage  product. So I think its more  likely he was notified 
of the end of his fixed interest rate term mortgage.  And the notification  under the paragraph 
Notice of change of payments  set out the new payments Mr R was required to make.  If 
there was any issue with the figures then Mr R could have called Nationwide to question 
them. The letter also states when the fixed rate ends your account will be transferred to the 
Societys variable mortgage interest  rate. However, if you wish to consider other options 
which may be available your local branch will be pleased to advise you or answer any 
queries that you may have. So overall  I think Mr R would likely have known at the time that 
he could call Nationwide to ask for any information  about the mortgage or the PPI. This is 
what leads me to think its more likely that there  is nothing on the paperwork which would 
have led to the conclusion that the mortgage  or the PPI was compulsory.
Mr R also refers me to the letter of December 1999 which  is the insurance schedule.  He 
points to the paragraph under the heading  Methods of payment which  states Your  
insurance premiums form part of your total monthly  mortgage  payment. Please ensure that 
payments are made  in the month  due, as any unpaid premiums will be treated as 
underpayment of your mortgage, on which interest will be charged. I dont think this showed 
PPI was compulsory.  This showed how the mortgage repayments were set up and the 
method of payment.
This was not an advised or recommended sale of the PPI. That meant that Nationwide didnt 
need to check  Mr Rs circumstances  but it needed to give enough clear information about  
the PPI. Mr R says he didnt need it but it was up to him to decide  whether he wanted to 
continue with the PPI or cancel it, thinking about  whether he needed it or not.
As I also said in my provisional  decision, this was not a new policy;  it simply was a 
continuation of the PPI Mr R had before. And I think Mr R was likely  sent schedules  of 
insurance which set out the revised  premiums  and also attached policy  documents.  Having 
found that Mr R chose to buy this policy  - the onus  was on Mr R to review his PPI to check it 
was fit for his circumstances and whether  he wanted  it once  the fixed  term interest  rate deal 
had come to an end.
Ref: DRN48472584I think Nationwide gave  Mr R sufficient information  in 1993 about the compulsory nature of 
the product.  Its possible that not all the other  information was as clear as it could  have been.  
But I think when he took it out he was aware  it was a compulsory policy and that he had to 
have it for the two year fixed interest  rate term of the mortgage.  The PPI already  in place 
simply continued once  the two years came to an end from the previous policy set up under 
the initial mortgage. 
In 1993 when Mr R took out the cover, as I have  said he needed to take out the PPI in order  
to secure the particular  fixed rate deal.  And as I have  seen  in correspondence from Mr R he 
chose that mortgage and he understood that he needed the PPI. When Nationwide notified  
Mr R that the fixed rate mortgage had ended  there  is nothing  set out on the paperwork to say 
Mr R had to continue with the PPI. So weighing  the evidence, Nationwide didnt tell Mr R he 
needed to have the PPI to take out the variable rate. And although the letter says he could 
consider alternative  options for his mortgage,  the notice of change  of payments indicated  to 
Mr R the new cost of the policy, on balance if he didnt want  it the PPI he could have 
questioned this also.
The policy would have paid out if he was off work  sick or had an accident and it would have  
paid if he lost his job. As it protected an important  asset I still think  the policy  was useful.  I 
also think it would have  been up to Mr R to cancel it if he no longer wanted the PPI after the 
fixed term had come to an end.
So Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I dont think  he lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide 
did wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48472585COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr R bought  a PPI policy  when  he took out his mortgage in 1993. The policy  covered him if he was off 
work sick or if he had an accident.  It would have also provided cover in the event  he lost his job.
Mr R says he did not need  the policy as he has a secure job, savings  and he was making  
overpayments to the mortgage. He has also told us he had a property asset  so he says his 
circumstances meant he did not need the cover.
Mr R has also told us that that once the fixed term of his mortgage had come to an end there was no 
clear option  to decline or cancel the PPI.
In its final response letter to Mr R, Nationwide said it did not uphold Mr Rs complaint but as a gesture 
of goodwill it would refund the premiums Mr R paid from July 2002,  until the policy was cancelled in 
November 2002 as Mr R had retired and didnt  return to work after this time.  Unhappy with this 
response Mr R referred  the complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator who first looked at Mr Rs complaint didnt  think  it should be upheld. Mr R disagreed 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Although I realise  Mr R feels strongly about his matter, Im not intending  to uphold this complaint.  Im 
sorry to disappoint him but Ill explain why.
sale of the PPI in 1993
I have seen various documents from the time of the sale which suggests  to me that in order to take 
out the particular mortgage  and to take advantage of a specific interest rate, it was compulsory for Mr 
R to take out the PPI. I think Mr R broadly accepts that the agreement  with Nationwide to take 
advantage of its fixed  rate was to have the PPI in place for the two years until the fixed term came to 
an end. 
Nationwide has said that its records show that the mortgage  was requested from an acting mortgage  
broker. It has provided a copy of Mr Rs application form from the time he applied for his mortgage  
and the PPI. The information on the form has been completed with Mr Rs personal details. At section 
8 of the form there is a section about the PPI headed unemployment, accident and sickness 
protection. The form has been completed to show Mr R wanted to take out the PPI and a handwritten 
note  compulsory for F/R 7.25% at the side of the tick box, showed that for a specific fixed rate the 
PPI was compulsory. 
Whilst I accept I cant say exactly what Mr R was told at that time,  it looks to me as though this 
information would more likely have been communicated  to him when his application form was being 
Ref: DRN48472586completed. The form has been signed  and dated. The mortgage offer sets out that mortgage 
repayment cover  PPI  would be charged at a rate of £21.50 per month. And it also sets out that as 
a condition of the fixed rate, PPI arranged  by the society had to be maintained, at least during the 
fixed rate term.  
I have also seen  a copy of a letter from Nationwides representatives at the time confirming that Mr R 
now required  a mortgage  under the fixed rate scheme and the attached  handwritten letter  from Mr R 
says : could  you please  switch my repayment mortgage over to the 7.25% fixed  rate for 2 years on 
completion. He enclosed a cheque in that letter and accepted that the full payment protection  plan 
went with the mortgage.  
So looking  at everything, I think Mr R wanted to secure this particular mortgage. And I think he likely 
understood that he had to take out PPI to get this particular preferential  mortgage deal which lasted 
for a term of two years.
If Mr R hadnt  wanted the PPI at this point he could  have  looked elsewhere for a different mortgage 
deal or chosen a different mortgage product with Nationwide. I think he understood this at the time.  
As Nationwide  didnt  give Mr R a personalised  recommendation  to take out the cover it didnt need to 
check it was right for him. But it still needed  to give him enough information so Mr R could decide 
whether or not he should take it out. 
One of Mr Rs complaints is that he didnt  need the PPI when he took out his mortgage. As 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI it was for Mr R to decide if he needed it.
Its possible not all the information about the PPI was given to Mr R. Mr R says he had savings and 
sick pay from his employer and a property asset.  He also says his job meant he had statutory 
protection from redundancy. Ive thought carefully  about this point but I still dont think  its likely  it 
would have affected his decision to take out this particular  mortgage with the PPI. Based on what Ive 
seen of Mr Rs circumstances,  it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits 
on the PPI cover. It also looks like he still could have benefitted from the cover for accident and 
sickness. This policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay from work. And his other property 
asset might not easily be sold as and when he needed it  the equity in the property can vary 
according to the market conditions  and could  not be guaranteed. And any savings  Mr R had could 
have been used for other important living expenses. Circumstances can change and the mortgage 
was a long term commitment  secured on his home. So the PPI could have been useful at what  likely  
would have been a difficult time financially if Mr R had needed to make a claim. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. And I think he wanted this particular  mortgage so he accepted he had to have the 
PPI to take advantage of the rate. So I dont think better or clearer  information would have changed 
his mind at the time of the sale.
after the two year fixed interest rate had come to an end
Mr R feels  strongly  that once  the two year deal had come to an end, Nationwide should  have pointed  
out to him in a clear  fair and non-misleading way that PPI was not a requirement  of the new variable  
rate deal he was now subscribed to. 
Mr R has set out his points  in detail and I want to assure him Ive taken  into consideration everything 
he has told me  even  if I havent set out all the points individually below.  
The crux of what Mr R says is at the point the mortgage changed  the PPI was no longer a condition of 
the mortgage and he was unaware that the PPI was no longer  needed. It could have been cancelled 
but Mr R says he wasnt given  the option and Nationwide  should have reviewed  his circumstances at 
that time. And he says Nationwide  should have stopped  taking  payment for the PPI  it was not 
specifically requested.
Ref: DRN48472587I dont agree with Mr R about these points.  No new sale of the PPI took place once the fixed term 
ended. So in my view it follows  that the policy continued and I still think it could have been useful to 
protect Mr Rs mortgage payments  whatever mortgage he had after the fixed term had ended.
When Mr R first bought the policy he requested the fixed rate mortgage and knew he had to take out 
the PPI to get this rate. I think he most likely knew at that point it was for two years only.  
I think  Mr R would have been aware  his fixed  term had come to an end and that he was still paying  for 
PPI, although it was no longer compulsory. So I think that it would have  been Mr Rs responsibility  to 
contact Nationwide  about the cover.  
I think  Mr R knew he was paying for the PPI and that it was part of the previous fixed  term deal. So 
when that changed I would have expected him to question  it if he no longer wanted it.
This was a regular premium policy paid for monthly so he could have cancelled  it at any time he 
wanted to. Any information Nationwide  provided about the PPI was for the benefit  of Mr R if he 
wanted to keep  his cover. I havent seen anywhere where Mr R was told he needed to have the PPI. 
And I dont think theres anything written on the paperwork which  would have led Mr R to think he had 
to continue with the PPI on the variable rate.
Mr R has helpfully sent in a number  of statements and letters  between  Nationwide and Mr R.
Looking at the letter of March 1995  Nationwide informed  Mr R that his fixed rate on his mortgage was 
to end. It also gave details of how the mortgage payments were affected in a panel  at the foot of the 
letter. This showed  the cost of the PPI. And while I accept  it doesnt say it was no longer a condition 
of the mortgage, I also dont think it says anything which  would have made  Mr R think he had to keep 
the PPI to get the mortgage. I think the letter set out and notified Mr R that he was paying for the PPI 
so he would have more  likely known that he could have questioned it if he no longer  thought he 
needed it. 
I can also see insurance  schedules and mortgage statements - setting  out the cost of the PPI were  
likely sent to Mr R annually. Im satisfied that both would likely have indicated to him that he was still 
paying for the PPI.
Mr R also refers to warnings on the paperwork  if he failed to pay the PPI. Again, I think he would 
have known that he was paying for the PPI and I still think he could have called  Nationwide if he no 
longer wanted the cover. 
Mr R has referred  to the last attachment sent by Nationwide after he had settled the mortgage. It 
refers to invaluable  mortgage  payment  protection. Mr R says this shows Nationwides intention  to sell 
cover and that he was encouraged to continue with the insurance.  But Nationwide saying it was 
invaluable or a good idea is not the same thing as telling Mr R he had no choice. And I am satisfied  
that each  renewal notice or statement he received would  likely have  reminded Mr R that he had the 
PPI cover in place. So again  I think this should have prompted Mr R into making enquiries with 
Nationwide if he no longer thought it was useful to him. I havent seen that he has done so.
Mr R retired  around  June  2002. This was approximately five months before the mortgage was repaid.  
As a gesture of goodwill,  Nationwide paid back any money Mr R paid for the premiums from the time 
he retired until the end of November 2002 when  the mortgage  ended, as the PPI was no longer of use 
to him. As it was required  to do Nationwide added interest to the refunded premiums. I think that was 
fair and I dont intend to ask Nationwide to do anything more to put things right.
In summary, I think Mr R chose the mortgage for its fixed term interest rate in 1993.  To take 
advantage of this interest rate I think its likely Mr R knew he had to take out the PPI and that it was a 
compulsory condition of getting that particular mortgage rate. 
Ref: DRN48472588And when  the fixed term came to an end I think Mr R was more likely  to have known that he 
continued to pay for the PPI and that it was no longer  compulsory after the fixed term had ended. So I 
think it would have been reasonable for Mr R to make enquiries with Nationwide if he was unsure. 
And although Nationwide  might not have given all the information it could have done,  for the reasons 
set out above, I still think the PPI would  have been useful and so I dont  think  he would have changed  
his mind and taken another mortgage product  even  if hed been given better  or clearer information. All 
in all, I dont think Mr R has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong and I dont think it 
needs to do anything further to put it right so I dont  intend  to uphold  this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 9 
August 2019  after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4847258