K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about the way in which  Lloyds Bank plc has handled her credit  card 
account. 
background
Mrs G had a credit card account with Lloyds. In or about May 2017 she was having difficulty 
making the monthly contractual  payments, and she contacted the bank. It agreed  to suspend 
collections activity, but still added monthly  interest of just over £100. Lloyds explained that 
placing a hold on the account in the way it had would not prevent interest accruing or being 
added to the account balance. Nevertheless,  it agreed to a refund. 
After it received details  of Mrs Gs income and expenditure, the bank agreed  to freeze 
interest and charges on her account and to accept a monthly payment of £30. 
Subsequently, Mrs G would routinely send cheques  for the monthly payments  along  with 
cheques relating to other accounts. On occasions  those cheques  havent been processed 
correctly or at all. Lloyds  explained that Mrs Gs accounts were handled in different parts of 
the bank, and this meant that cheques  werent  always sent to the appropriate department.
In October  2017 Mrs G told Lloyds that she had changed her address. Lloyds, however, 
continued to use her previous address, both for her credit card and other accounts. 
The bank recognised that it should have updated  Mrs Gs address; it also agreed that it 
hadnt adequately explained what had happened to Mrs Gs cheques. It offered a total of 
£225 in compensation  across all her accounts that were affected. 
Mrs G is also unhappy that Lloyds stopped sending her monthly account statements. It 
explained that this is its usual practice  where an account is being managed by its recoveries 
department. It also declined Mrs Gs request that all her accounts  be consolidated; they are 
managed in different areas  of the bank,  so it wouldnt change  its procedures. 
Mrs G complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered her complaint. He 
thought however that Lloyds had acted fairly.  Its payment  of £225 in total was fair 
compensation for the errors it accepted it had made  in the handling of Mrs Gs credit  card 
and other  accounts.  Mrs G didnt accept  the investigators findings and asked that an 
ombudsman review them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
I dont believe it was unreasonable of Lloyds to suspend the credit card account in the way it 
did. Nor do I think it was obliged to refund the interest it charged  when  it suspended  
collection activity  although it did so in any event.  
The bank has accepted it made  errors in the way it handled some cheques and in failing to 
update Mrs Gs address   across this and other accounts. But I agree with the investigator 
that its adequately compensated Mrs G for those mistakes. 
Ref: DRN40765572I appreciate that Mrs G would like Lloyds to change its procedures in some  ways  for 
example, by consolidating her accounts and providing monthly statements. I believe though 
that its explained clearly why its not prepared to do that; and I dont believe it would be right 
for me to intervene in what is really  a matter for the bank to decide. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision before 
7 March 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4076557