K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
loan in 1995. Mr M says Northern Bank  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, Ill explain  why.
Mr M says that he wasnt told that the PPI was an optional product  and that Northern 
Bank told him he had to take the insurance. Due to the time thats  passed,  theres  not 
much information available from Northern Bank, and Mr M hasnt provided much detail 
either. But I dont find this unusual  businesses  arent required to keep records  
indefinitely, and I wouldnt expect  Mr M to remember everything about something that 
happened in 1995.  
Because of the lack of information, I dont have enough to say that Mr M wasnt given a 
choice by Northern  Bank  in taking the PPI  and I cant uphold his complaint for this 
reason.  
 
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I think its likely  he chose  to take it out - it looks  like he wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems  like it could have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Northern  Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold,  Northern Bank  expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about 
that. Because Northern Bank  didnt  tell Mr M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont change  my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN43848542what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Mr M any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Northern Bank 
should also pay Mr M 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384854