K821x#15complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with C Hoare  & Cos (Hoare & Co) decision to decline a refund of 
£17,017.20 she lost as part of a scam. 
background
Mrs K holds a payment  account with Hoare  & Co. She received a telephone call on 
4 September 2018 from an unknown third party purporting to be from BT. It is not in dispute 
that what happened here was an act of fraud, so I will refer to the third party as the 
fraudster throughout this decision.
The fraudster told Mrs K that she had a problem with her router and, by coincidence,  she 
had recently been  experiencing some  problems with her internet connection, so she believed 
the caller to be genuine. The fraudster  told Mrs K that he had noticed unusual activity  on her 
bank account,  with transactions showing from companies she was unfamiliar with. The 
fraudster proceeded  to show  her information  that made it appear as though her internet 
connection had been used in California. Mrs K says she was told to log into her email  
account and internet banking to check all was well.
Mrs K says she was not familiar with the process of logging  into her internet banking,  but 
that she followed the fraudsters verbal  instructions on how to do it. She entered her account 
number and PIN into her internet banking security  device,  thinking this would help prevent 
any further intrusion  on her computer by potential hackers. But in reality,  she had just logged 
into her internet banking  portal.
Mrs K says the fraudster  then proceeded to tell her to input certain numbers on her 
computer, which she thinks she remembers entering. Following this, the fraudster said that 
her account  had been made safe and the call was terminated.
Once the call had been terminated, Mrs K says she felt that something was wrong, so she 
called Hoare & Co around two minutes  later, at which point they told her that two large 
payments of £18,000  and £12,500 had recently  been made  from her account. She told the 
bank that she had not made these payments.
Hoare & Co managed  to recover £13,482.80  from the beneficiary banks, which they have 
refunded to Mrs K. But the remaining balance of £17,017.20 could not be recovered. Hoare 
& Co said they were  not willing to refund this money to Mrs K, as their records  showed  that 
she had logged onto her internet banking and had authorised the two disputed payments 
through use of her security token.
Mrs K complained about Hoare & Cos decision  as she says the activity should have flagged  
on their systems as unusual, especially as shed had a conversation with her relationship  
manager the same day where she explained she would be making a payment by cheque  
rather than via internet  banking.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He agreed that Mrs K had likely authorised  the 
transactions, but he felt there  were enough indicators to suggest  that Hoare & Co ought to 
have identified the two large payments as unusual and out of character, such  that they 
should have prevented the money from leaving Mrs Ks account. As a result,  the investigator 
recommended that Hoare & Co refund the remaining  amount  taken,  as well as paying  £300 
compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by their handling of the matter. 
Hoare & Co disagreed.  In summary, theyve said:
Ref: DRN45419532Given that the transaction was authorised by Mrs K, they have no liability  to refund 
the money lost as part of the scam;
They are not signatories to the British Standards Institutes October 2017 code of 
practice that requires  them to undertake  transaction monitoring,  so it is unfair to hold 
them to the standards of this code;
In any event, they were in compliance  with the code as their operating systems would 
have triggered  any concerns had the transactions been unusual  for Mrs Ks account,  
which they were not, as they were consistent with the payment history  of her account 
and did not constitute  unusually large  amounts; 
Their clients typically have significant  resources and tend to make larger  payments  
than standard  retail  banking customers. It is also not unusual for their customers  to 
empty their account through  large  transactions only to top up the balance again later. 
Balances also fluctuate significantly due to investment  income (of which Mrs K had 
received around  £30,000 into her account over the summer).
Their duty to take reasonable care and skill in carrying out the instructions of the 
account holder  is subordinate  to their other conflicting contractual duties  such  as 
executing an apparently valid and proper payment order.  Mrs Ks transactions could 
not reasonably  have  put the bank on inquiry as they represented the payment  of 
amounts consistent  with the accounts  transaction history and did not reflect  
irregularity or patterns of fraudulent  activity. 
Given that Hoare & Co did not agree with the investigators opinion,  the matter  has been 
escalated to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
It is common ground that a bank  has a common-law  and statutory duty to safeguard, so far 
as reasonably possible, customers  and consumers  in particular  against the risk of 
fraudulent transactions. See, for example, the Financial  Conduct Authoritys General 
Principles and Policy  Statements (e.g. on financial crime), plus industry guidelines  and/or 
codes of practice by the British Bankers Association  (BBA), British Standards Institute 
(BSI), etc. Nevertheless, the starting position,  under  the terms and conditions of their 
contract and the Payment  Services Regulations  (PSRs),  is still that, subject to reasonable 
checks and balances, a bank should  execute  clear instructions authorised by its client  in 
order to maintain commercial efficacy in a free and competitive market.  
It is not in dispute  that the subject-matter of this complaint concerns an authorised payment 
insofar as Mrs K used  her security credentials  to send the monies  to the fraudster (because, 
at that time, she was unaware she was being  scammed). Accordingly, under the account 
contract and PSRs, the bank had a duty to execute her instructions  without  undue  delay  
unless its due diligence warning systems  were  triggered such  as to give a reasonable 
banker grounds  for suspecting fraud or financial crime by or against  the customer. Its not for 
an ombudsman to regulate the nature  and scope of a banks fraud-prevention systems; but 
Ref: DRN45419533we typically see cases where  they might  be triggered by unusual or uncharacteristic  account 
activity, e.g. an unusually large  one-off  payment; a payment that is inconsistent with the 
customers normal means and/or activity;  a payee whos  the subject of regulatory  warnings; 
an uncharacteristic cross-border payment, etc.  
The BSI Code came  into force  on 31 October 2017, which was before the fraud on Mrs Ks 
account took place. I appreciate that Hoare & Co was not itself a signatory to the Code, but I 
consider the BSI Code to have simply been  a reasonable articulation of what is considered 
to be good industry  practice at the point Mrs K made the payments, and also of the practical 
steps a bank might fairly and reasonably take to protect their customers. The Code does not, 
in my opinion, suggest wholly new practices  but effectively codifies longstanding common 
law, common sense  principles regarding a bankers duty of care.  So, the fact that Hoare  & 
Co was not a signatory to it does  not mean they cant be held liable if their negligent  breach 
of duty or inaction results in a client suffering reasonably foreseeable losses  due to third-
party fraud. 
Hoare and Co say that it is not unusual  for their customers to make large payments as they 
typically have significant resources. However,  the Code (and good industry practice)  
indicates that it is not what a banks typical customer  would  do that should be used as the 
benchmark for detecting suspicious activity, but whether a transaction is unusual  or 
uncharacteristic for the individual customer.
Hoare and Co say the payments Mrs K made to the fraudster were not unusual and were 
consistent with the payment history of her account.  But having  considered  Mrs Ks 
statements covering  up to six months  prior to the scam, I cannot see any such large 
payments being  made from her account   with the largest transaction  in that six-month 
period being just £2,000  to a commercial account.
Therefore, the payments of £18,000 and £12,500  that Mrs K made to the fraudster 
represented an uncharacteristic  increase  in spending from her account.  Based on her 
activity over the past six months, Im persuaded that it was unusual for her to have made 
such large payments,  and Im also mindful that it reduced her account  balance to around 
£153  despite having previously maintained a balance between  £20,000 to £30,000 in her 
account up until that point. The two payments were  also made  to new (non-commercial) 
payees and were both made within quick succession of one another.  
So, even if such activity  were in keeping with Hoare  & Cos typical  customers, Im satisfied 
that the payments made to the fraudster  by Mrs K were unusual and uncharacteristic for her 
when compared  with her account activity over the previous six months.  Therefore, I think 
these were triggers which Hoare & Co ought reasonably  to have detected  and acted upon in 
line with its duty of care and good  industry practice, e.g. by making enquiries about the 
purpose of the payments before they processed  them.  
Hoare & Co submit that their duty to take reasonable  care and skill in carrying  out the 
instructions of the account holder is subordinate to their other conflicting contractual  duties   
such as executing an apparently valid and proper  payment order. I accept there is a balance  
to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate  payments.  But it is not unfair  or unreasonable to expect a 
prudent, professional banker to double-check payment instructions that ought  reasonably  
trigger concerns as to whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for this particular 
customer and/or account activity. 
Ref: DRN45419534Hoare & Co say that their operating systems would not have identified the transactions on 
Mrs Ks account as being suspicious or inconsistent with her account history.  As I have said,  
how a bank chooses to configure  their fraud detection system is for them  and/or the 
regulators to decide. But the question I need to answer here  based on all the 
circumstances of this complaint  is whether Hoare & Co ought  reasonably  to have done 
more in Mrs Ks case. If their fraud  prevention systems were not capable  of detecting the 
fraud, that does not provide an unanswerable defence  to allegations of breaches of duty but 
may in fact indicate  that the banks security measures were not satisfactory or fit for purpose.  
Its a question of fact and degree depending on the circumstances of each individual  case.  
Based on the facts  and evidence in this case,  I think Hoare & Co ought reasonably to have 
measures in place  that would have  been triggered by such unusual  and uncharacteristic  
activity and identified  that Mrs K was potentially at risk of financial harm. 
Accordingly, the final question is therefore one of causation: was the banks breach of 
duty/negligence the dominant, effective  cause of the losses; in other  words,  were such  
losses reasonably  foreseeable at the time and would they have arisen but for the breach?
Im persuaded that, as a matter of good practice, Hoare & Co should have made additional 
checks and enquiries  as to the purpose  of the payment before  processing it. I believe they 
ought to have contacted  Mrs K to question  her about  the payment before processing it. Had 
they done this, it seems  highly likely  the scam would have  been  revealed and prevented.  I 
say this because, although Mrs K carried out all the agreed steps to authorise  the payments 
to be made  from her account, she was being  duped  at the time by sophisticated criminals 
and wasnt aware  she was actually making  a payment but thought  she was acting to protect  
her account  from hackers. If Hoare & Co had contacted her to ask if she really intended on 
making two large  payments to two new payees,  its probable that Mrs K would  have realised 
she was the victim of a scam and confirmed that these payments should not be released   
and the funds would not now be lost to the fraudster. 
It follows that I consider  Hoare & Cos omissions were the proximate cause of Mrs Ks 
losses, so they should  refund Mrs K the remaining £17,017.20 she lost as part of this scam. 
Mrs K has understandably suffered a great  deal of distress  as a result  of this scam. Hoare & 
Co arent  responsible for that. But they havent helped  matters by not treating Mrs Ks 
complaint as sympathetically  and fairly  as one might expect given their failure to implement  
and/or act on reasonable preventative measures. In failing to prevent the fraud, this resulted 
in Mrs K having to liquidise some  assets and having to delay payments towards her debts. 
The investigator recommended  an award  of £300 for distress  and inconvenience, which  I 
also consider to be fair and reasonable compensation in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct C Hoare & Co to:
Refund Mrs K £17,017.20  that being the remainder  of the £30,500  lost as part of 
the scam  and not yet returned to her; and
Pay 8% simple interest per annum  on this amount from 4 September 2018 to the 
date of settlement;  and
Pay £300 compensation in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN45419535Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541953