K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
declining to pay previously authorised  medical  expenses under a private health insurance  
policy. She wants her claims paid.
background
Ms B had a private health insurance policy with AXA, started in 2015. She needed treatment 
and contacted AXA online.  Ms B said that it gave her a choice of three clinics and gave the 
names of two individuals at those clinics,  but didnt tell her that she had to use those  named.  
Ms B went to a clinic named by AXA, but saw people that it didnt name.  Her claim was 
declined as a result. Ms B said that she needed treatment urgently and didnt know that she 
had to use the person named at that clinic,  who was on maternity leave. And Ms B was 
unhappy that she renewed  her policy before her claim  was rejected, and AXA had refused to 
refund her renewal premium.
Ms B complained to AXA. It said Ms B was given the names of two individuals  and one clinic 
with whom she could  have treatment under her policy. A week  later,  Ms B sent an invoice for 
26 pre-paid  sessions with different practitioners  AXA explained it declined the claim as the 
practitioners she had paid werent  those  authorised  by AXA. It said that the terms and 
conditions of the policy told Ms B to use authorised practitioners and this was told to her 
when she was given  the names of those who she could see.
Ms B complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. In 
all the circumstances,  the investigator  thought  that AXA acted unfairly  by failing to tell Ms B 
in its email only the individual named could treat as opposed to the clinic itself (except  one 
clinic where  it appeared anyone  could treat) or that she shouldnt pay herself. She said AXA 
should refund the five treatments carried out between 10 and 18 December 2018, and the 
costs of the consultation, x-rays, report findings and ice pack.
Ms B agreed with the investigators view but AXA disagreed. It said that it didnt know the 
practitioner was on maternity  leave and couldve provided an alternative if it had known. AXA 
also said that in the initial call with Ms B it highlighted the importance of seeing  an authorised 
practitioner and Ms B shouldve checked before going ahead  with someone else.  
The investigator said that AXAs email to Ms B named  just a clinic as well as two individuals 
so it wasnt clear that the identity of the practitioner was important. She also noted  that AXA 
itself recorded  that it hadnt told Ms B to only see a named practitioner or not to pay herself, 
and thought if it had Ms B wouldve acted differently. The investigator said clear information 
should be given  when a consumer asked,  and it wasnt enough to just rely on the wording of 
the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN48752952My role is to ensure policyholders are treated fairly  and reasonably,  which means I must  
bear in mind  the law and the terms and conditions  of the policy,  but Im not bound  by the 
legal position.  Its correct that the terms and conditions of the policy say that if treatment by a 
non-authorised practitioner is carried out, AXA wont pay anything. And theres  a limit to the 
amount Ms B can claim in a year for authorised practitioners carrying out treatment of £500 
and ten sessions.
But is it fair and reasonable for the strict wording  of the policy to be applied in Ms Bs case? I 
think not. Ms B isnt someone who regularly claims  under her policy  and she relied  on the 
information she was sent by AXA. Within  that email,  she was given the name  of one clinic 
and two individuals at other  clinics who could assist.  I think that it wasnt made clear to her at 
all that if the named individual was unavailable she couldnt see anyone else at such  a clinic; 
in fact, the inclusion of a clinic with no named individual suggested that it was the clinic,  not 
the individual, that was important. AXA shouldve been much  clearer.
There was no reminder about  the terms and conditions of the policy  within the email  and 
Ms B wasnt told not to pay herself,  but to get the invoice sent to AXA for payment. This 
failure is critical as I think if Ms B had told the clinic  to send the invoice to AXA, the whole 
situation was likely  to have been  avoided  as the clinic probably knew  that AXA didnt have a 
relationship with it. And I think Ms B had a reasonable point when she said that she needed 
a clinic near her due to how often  she needed  to attend.
Having looked  at the evidence available and thought about whats fair and reasonable, I 
think a refund of the five sessions between  10 and 18 December 2018, together with the 
costs of the consultation, x-rays, report findings and ice pack (which were the initial items 
needed to start treatment) is appropriate. I know that Ms B also wants  her renewal premiums  
refunded, but I dont  think thats fair or reasonable. Ms B had the benefit  of the policy  and the 
renewal date was the same day she sent in her claim   she chose to renew  while her claim 
was pending.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  should  
repay Ms B the costs  of the five treatments she received between 10 and 18 December 
2018, together with the additional costs set out above within 28 days of notification  of 
acceptance of this final decision.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before  28 February 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4875295