K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a poorly fitted  kitchen.
background
In the autumn of 2018 Mr G entered into an agreement with a kitchen company, which I will 
call K to supply and install a kitchen. There  were  some amendments  made to the original 
agreement and final arrangements  were made to have the kitchen fitted before Christmas.  
Mr G says the kitchen wasnt fitted properly and K disagrees.
The invoice dated 24 September  2018 included sum of £495 for the removal and disposal  of 
the existing kitchen, worktops and appliances. However, this was later deleted from the 
agreement as there was woodchip  wallpaper  behind the existing kitchen  cabinets  which  K 
wouldnt remove. Mr G removed it himself and agreed to pay for the cost of disposal.
On 22 December K sent a further invoice  which included  Supplementary Costs:  Waste 
removal as agreed  on 28 Sept 2018 by email - £165.50 as per invoice attached.  The invoice 
was from the waste disposal company  and its costs were passed  on by K without any uplift. 
The 28 September email  said:   Please  find attached  a new quote  which  removes  the comer  
internal mechanisms, adds either 400 or 500 mm recycle  bins, and includes all panels / 
plinths etc. I have  taken removal & disposal  off and am happy to provide a skip bag for you 
to use and just charge  what-ever Im charged to remove it if that helps?
Mr G paid K £165 using  his credit card on 29 January 2019 for the waste  removal. The rest 
of the kitchen was paid by debit card, a direct bank  transfer and cash. I believe there is small 
sum outstanding due to the dispute  between Mr G and K.
Santander rejected  Mr Gs section 75 claim as it believed  the payment made on the credit  
card wasnt  for the kitchen  and installation. It said the payment was a one off payment made 
six weeks after the installation and after the apparent breach of contract. It noted  K had 
provided a separate invoice which confirmed the card payment  was for a one off waste 
removal service  which  it delivered  and there was no breach of contract.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He reviewed the agreement,  emails  and 
invoices and concluded that the credit card payment  was for a separate  service. He noted it 
was paid after the kitchen had been  installed and the workmanship disputed. 
He referred to the original invoice and the fact that the subsequent  invoices  of 1 October 
2018 and 17 November 2018 made no reference  to waste disposal as this was taken off. 
The invoice of the 22 December 2018 showed  the amount due of £165.50  for waste removal  
as agreed on 28 September 2018.  He said that if this had been part of the original contract 
he wouldve expected it to have been  clearly stated in the invoice. The only mention of waste  
disposal was in the original agreement was to remove & dispose  of existing kitchen + 
worktops + appliances.  He didnt think the £165  payment was part of the agreement to 
supply and install the kitchen.
Mr G didnt agree and said the invoice which included  the waste removal charge included  
other elements of the kitchen  which showed  it was part of the overall  agreement  with K. He 
didnt believe the date the payment was made  was relevant to the complaint. He also said 
Ref: DRN49508672that all the emails were  titled kitchen  project  which showed the waste  disposal  charge was 
part of the overall agreement. He added that when he made the £165  payment he wrote  that 
it was for the kitchen  project. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Santander has said it does not agree a claim should be made  under section 75, as there is 
not enough evidence to show the payment made  by credit card was for the kitchen.
In this complaint  the debtor is Mr G, the creditor is Santander and the supplier is K. I note 
that K outsourced the waste removal  to another company and passed on the cost to it to Mr 
G. I have  given consideration  to whether the DCS link has been broken by the use of the 
waste removal company, but I have  concluded  it hasnt been.  The arrangement was that Mr 
G would pay K for the removal this is what he did. He didnt make  any payment to the waste  
removal company.
Section 75 reads: the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim 
against the supplier  in respect of a misrepresentation  or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly  and 
severally liable to the debtor.
The question is what is the transaction financed by the agreement? Was it part of the 
agreement to supply  and install a new kitchen? Having given this much  consideration I have 
concluded that the investigator was right in his conclusion.
In simple terms Mr G and his partner said to K please supply and fit a kitchen. K said this is 
what we can do for this price. There was some further discussion and changes were made. 
One of these changes was Mr G decided, for whatever reason, to remove  the old kitchen so 
that K no longer was responsible for that work and the cost relating to that was removed 
from the invoice.  However,  it said, we can help you out if you wish and arrange  for a 
company we know to collect the rubbish. So the agreement became K would supply  and fit a 
kitchen which had been prepared by Mr G. 
That means it had no part in the preparation work  and its only role was to help Mr G out by 
arranging for collection  of the waste  he had removed.  I fear the matter has been somewhat 
confused by K including  the removal cost,  which  it simply  passed on, in an invoice which  
Ref: DRN49508673included other  costs relating to the kitchen. However, I believe the substance of the matter is 
that the removal costs  were not part of the agreement to supply and fit a kitchen. It was an 
ancillary matter.
I suspect that once Mr G realised he was in dispute  with K he made  a payment by credit 
card to allow him to make use of section 75. While  I have  every sympathy with his situation  I 
cannot conclude  that Santander was wrong  to reject his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 
19 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4950867