K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains about the customer service hes received from Nationwide Building  Society  
in relation to an account he has with it.
Background
Mr H is unhappy with the customer service hes received from Nationwide  on a number of 
occasions. In summary, hes not happy  because:
Nationwides telephone system  wont accept  calls from withheld numbers;
he says one of Nationwides  representatives  was patronising  during a phone call; and
Nationwide sent him a message  via his online banking which he thought was 
suspicious.
Nationwide responded to his complaint and provided  an explanation for why it wont  accept 
calls from withheld  numbers and confirmed that the email Mr H thought was suspicious was 
in fact genuine. It also said it didnt think its representative had done anything wrong during 
the phone  call.
Mr H wasnt happy with Nationwides response  and brought the complaint to this service.  
Our investigator considered the evidence and said 
it was up to Nationwide  whether  it accepted  calls from withheld numbers  or not;
she thought  the representative had tried to help but could have been clearer during  
the call;
she was satisfied the message Mr H was suspicious about was genuine.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision on his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to focus  on what I consider to be the crux of a 
complaint. Where I consider an error has happened and a consumer has lost out, I can tell 
the business what it should do is to put things right. 
Ive reached my decision based  on the evidence presented, keeping in mind relevant 
legislation and what I consider to be common industry practice. My role doesnt extend to 
telling businesses to do things just because they dont meet the requirements of a particular 
consumer.
I will deal with Mr Hs complaint points  in turn.
Nationwide not accepting calls from withheld  numbers
Mr H says its unreasonable that Nationwide wont accept calls from withheld numbers, 
particularly as it withholds its number  when making calls to its customers. 
Ref: DRN45091002Nationwide has explained that it made a decision to adopt this approach  when a customer 
phones from a withheld number and doesnt have any customer  information available, as 
part of a review  of its security procedures.  Its provided information to evidence this policy. 
Our investigator rightly  pointed out that this is a commercial business decision which 
Nationwide is free to make and one this service  wouldnt interfere with. 
So while I acknowledge Mr H doesnt like this approach, I cant say Nationwide has done 
anything wrong  in adopting  it. 
Was the representative patronising?
Mr H phoned up Nationwide to question a request it had made to him. Ive listened carefully 
to this call a number  of times. It seems to me, he was already  upset with Nationwides  
actions by the time he got through to the representative. 
She attempted to take him through security  but there was some confusion  when she asked 
about the kind of card Mr H had. Mr H said she was being patronising. The representative 
apologised and explained  what she was trying to find out. But the call became increasingly  
difficult and eventually Mr H brought it to a close.
Having listened  to the call, Im satisfied the representative was trying  to help Mr H, and 
getting him through Nationwides security  requirements was the first step in that process.  I 
didnt hear anything which leads me to conclude she meant to be patronising. But I do 
accept that Mr H found her approach that way. 
Overall though, Im not persuaded the representative intended to be patronising  and I think  
she was trying to help by asking the questions she did.
The message Mr H considered suspicious
After Mr H complained, a complaint handler  from Nationwide sent him a message through  
his online  banking secure message service asking him to make  contact to discuss his 
concerns. 
Mr H says he thought  email this was a phishing attempt  because it didnt comply with 
Nationwides security  protocols. He sent Nationwide a message on 4 February  2019  
explaining his concerns  and he says Nationwide refused to discuss  this with him.
Ive not seen any evidence of Nationwide  refusing  to discuss the matter  with Mr H. I can see 
it took some  time for it to respond to a number of concerns that hed raised,  including this 
one. It did so in its final response on 6 March 2019  when it explained the email was genuine  
and apologised  for any concern it caused. 
So I accept  there was a gap between Mr H reporting his concerns  and Nationwide  
responding. Ive not seen anything which suggests this caused Mr H financial detriment 
although I accept  it did cause him some worry.
Im mindful though,  that if Mr H remained concerned about the email and Nationwides lack 
of response he could have phoned  it to pursue the issue  more  quickly, although I 
acknowledge he would  have  had to do this from a number  that wasnt withheld or hed have 
had to have some of his customer  information available.
Im satisfied that in apologising for the concern  it caused Mr H, Nationwide  has done 
enough.
Ref: DRN45091003Summary
  
Overall, I accept  Mr H isnt happy  with the way Nationwide has handled things and for the 
approach its adopted.  But for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think it needs to do 
anything more so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4509100