K820x#14complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank  plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to protect  his mortgage 
repayments in 2001. Mr C took out the borrowing  and PPI at a meeting with HSBC.  The 
policy paid a monthly benefit of £650  for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
In 2003 Mr C took out some further PPI at the same time as he arranged more borrowing on 
his mortgage account. He increased  the monthly benefit to £750. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
Mr C says he shouldnt have been sold the PPI. Mainly he complains  that as he was always  
self-employed he thought he needed PPI to get the mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC wrote to Mr C shortly after the meeting in July 2001 to confirm its recommendations. It 
said it had recommended Mortgage Repayment  Protector (this is what  HSBC called its 
PPI) to provide a monthly benefit to help cover Mr Cs regular payments in the event of 
unemployment, accident or sickness.  And it said that hed confirmed  his wish to go ahead 
with the Repayment  Protector... 
A personal  financial planning  review  it prepared for him also noted that they had discussed 
Mr Cs need to protect his mortgage  and related payments by applying for the Mortgage  
Repayment Protector scheme.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its fair to say that HSBC did enough to make Mr C 
aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  
Mr C was self-employed, so he wasnt entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay. And he 
hasnt told us of any other  means hed have had available to make his mortgage payments  
for very long if hed been unable to work.  Ive taken into account that Mr C had some savings 
at the time. But I dont  know if he wouldve  always had savings to rely on if hed needed to 
make a claim. And the policy paid out for longer  than its likely the amount of savings hes 
mentioned would've  lasted if hed had to rely on these to cover outgoings when he was 
unable to work.  
So I think the policy offered him useful benefits.  
Ref: DRN41129042As a self-employed  person, Mr C wouldve had to provide proof that he met the requirements 
to make a claim  for unemployment. But Ive looked at the policy terms that wouldve applied 
in these circumstances  and I dont consider these terms to be onerous. Theyre comparable  
to what an employed person would have to do to make a successful unemployment claim. 
Nor do I consider them to be unusual. Like terms appear in other similar policies. And I dont 
think the policy wouldve  required Mr C to do anything that he wouldnt reasonably  have 
expected to need to do to make a successful unemployment claim.
From what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  it doesnt  look as if Mr C wouldve 
been affected by any other restrictions (such as those about pre-existing medical conditions) 
which mightve made it difficult to make  a successful claim.  So even if HSBC didnt point 
those restrictions out, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to his decision to take the 
policy. 
Possibly HSBC couldve  explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But it looks as if 
Mr C was interested in the cover, and it appears to have been  affordable  for him. Given  that 
the policy couldve provided him with a useful benefit, I think  hed still have bought it even  if 
hed been given better information about  the cost.
In 2003, he indicated on the loan application  form that he also wanted  to have the 
unemployment cover  that was included. There was an option to say this wasnt  required if he 
didnt want to take it. So I think he wouldve been  able to see that it was up to him to say if 
he wanted to take out this PPI. And I find it was added to his account at his request. 
Mr Cs circumstances were largely  unchanged as far as I can see and he was adding 
significantly to the amount  of his borrowing. This PPI extended  cover  for the additional  
amount he was taking  out on his mortgage  account and provided him with useful protection. 
He continued  to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy.  So I think  this 
PPI was suitable for him. He wouldve  been able to see the cost of having this PPI as this 
was set out on the application form. So he seems to have been happy  to pay this at the time. 
Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there  were  failings in the way HSBC  sold 
him PPI, I dont think that better information  wouldve put Mr C off having  it. So I dont find 
hes lost out as a result  of anything that HSBC mightve done  wrong.  And theres nothing it 
needs to do to put things  right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4112904