K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr C in 2007,  in connection with a
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main  questions I need  to consider are:
If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr Cs needs?
Did Lloyds give Mr C the information he needed  to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there  was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr C is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr C says PPI wasnt discussed when he arranged his mortgage,  and he didnt know it had 
been added  to his account. He says the paperwork was put in front of him to sign,  but that 
the details of the policy werent explained. Ive noted  everything  Mr C has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr C and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. But for me to decide that Lloyds didnt tell him the 
PPI was optional,  Id have to conclude that this was more likely  than not.
Ive reviewed the paperwork that was completed  at the time.  I can see that a Statement of 
Demands & Needs  was completed by Lloyds for Mr C, to assess  his borrowing and 
insurance requirements. There was a separate section for PPI, which  included  a number 
of questions that Mr C wouldve had to answer for the form to be completed. At the end of 
the section the adviser wrote that they were  recommending PPI because:
Ref: DRN42365512You want to ensure that the mortgage  payments can be met in the event of 
unemployment.
You want to ensure that the mortgage  payments can be met in the event of accident or 
sickness.
A separate  PPI application form was then completed. Mr C also had to complete a direct  
debit instruction for the PPI premiums. This was separate to the direct debit for his mortgage  
repayments.
So from what Ive seen,  on balance  I think Lloyds made Mr C aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it out.
Lloyds accepts that it advised  Mr C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. I
say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident,  and that his parents wouldve covered his 
repayments if necessary.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to his 
employer benefits, and wouldve meant  Mr C could use his sick pay to cover other 
expenses. And it wouldve meant he didnt have to rely on his family. Keeping in 
mind the consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on his home, I think the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Mr C.
Mr C wasnt  affected by the policys conditions that limited benefits for self-employed 
people or those with pre-existing medical  conditions. So I dont think  Mr C needed 
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
Mr C completed  a direct debit instruction for the PPI, so I think  he wouldve known 
how much  he would be paying for it and found  it acceptable. As such, I dont think 
Mr C would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely  Mr C would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  he 
would still have taken  out the policy.
Ref: DRN42365513my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4236551