K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Zurich  Assurance Ltd failed to keep them  informed of 
the increase in the service  charge that was applied to their whole  of life policy.  Theyve  also 
complained that the last two reviews  were done within  five months  of each other,  outside  of 
the contract  terms, and have questioned  why the results were different.
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out a whole of life policy in 1982. The policy was set up on a joint life first 
death basis. The total sum assured  was just over £15,000 with a premium of just over £15 
per month.
In the last review  that took place  on the policy the service charge was recorded  as being 
£4.64. Mr and Mrs G feel this has increased over the years from the initial charge of £1 but 
Mr and Mrs G have said they have  never  been made aware this could happen.
They have said that by not being transparent about this fee Zurich hasnt allowed them to 
make a fully informed decision about  the policy and whether to cash it in or not over the 
years.
They have also said the policy was reviewed twice in quick  succession  outside of its contract 
terms and the results were different. And they feel Zurich did this to spite them.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
was of the view that the terms and conditions of the policy set out that the service charge 
could be increased  at the policy review  if Zurich felt it necessary. And so, given this, Zurich 
was acting correctly  in increasing  the service charge when it did. She also felt Zurich  had no 
obligation to actively tell Mr and Mrs G when  the increase in the service charge was 
applied. She also found that the policy wasnt subject to two reviews in quick  succession  of 
each other.  She saw that the letter Mr and Mrs G received in April 2019  which  they think was 
communicating the result of the second review  was Zurichs response to their query  about  
the service charge.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the assessment.  They remained of the view that they knew 
nothing of the potential increase in the service charge. And they expressed they were 
disappointed that not all their premium  was going  to pay for the life cover. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr and Mrs Gs main issue is the level of the service  charge and the fact it has increased 
over the years from £1 at inception to £4.64,  as it currently is. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy and I am satisfied that it is stated  in there that Zurich  can increase 
the service charge over the years if it feels necessary. I know  Mr and Mrs G have said the 
terms and conditions Zurich provided to this service are different to what was provided to 
Ref: DRN40062532them at inception, but I can see that even  though  the wording regarding the service charge 
isnt identical I am satisfied they mean  the same thing.
The document which Mr and Mrs G say they were  provided with at inception of the policy  
states:
The service  premium is not taken into account  in determining the amount of the premium  to 
be allocated to the investment fund. At a policy review the Company will be entitled to 
increase the service premiums to the amount then being charges as a service premium on 
new policies. The service  premium attracts tax relief.
The document provided by Zurich states:
At each  review date the company may increase any Service  premium  included in the Total 
Premium to such amount or percentage of the Basic  Premium as is at that stage charged in 
respect of new policies that are then being  offered  by the Company having the same basic  
Premium and being of the same  type as this policy, or if there be none being  policies that are 
determined by the actuary to be comparable.
So, I think its clear when  comparing  these  two paragraphs that they both say the service 
charge can be increased by Zurich at each review.  Therefore, I am satisfied that whichever  
one Mr and Mrs G received they should have known that the service  charge could be 
increased over the years.
Its also worth pointing  out that Zurich wasnt obliged to keep their customers informed of 
this. I agree  this would have been good practice, but Zurich wasnt required to do this. So 
because of this, and the fact the increase in the service charge was covered by the terms 
and conditions I cant say it has done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G have said by not being  kept informed they havent been able to 
make a fully informed decision about  the policy. But it is the responsibility of the policy 
holders to be aware of the terms and conditions of the policy given they form part of the 
contract they accepted. I also think its unlikely that this knowledge would have made  any 
difference to them keeping  the policy in place for as long as they have. The increase in the 
service charge was minimal over the thirty years and the policys cash in value  seems  to 
have always exceeded  what  has been  paid in, so if they havent cashed it in already, I cant  
see they would have done so in any time of the past.
With regards to the recent reviews of the policy and the quick  succession in which 
Mr and Mrs G feel they have  been  carried out, Ive looked at the letter  sent in in April 2019 
which they think is the second review  of the policy  some five months after the contracted  
review took place and I am satisfied this wasnt a review  but rather it was a response to their 
query about the service charge following the earlier review. The letter even starts thank you 
for your recent enquiry  so I think the fact it is a response to Mr and Mrs G rather  than 
anything else is quite  clear.
Overall, therefore, for the reasons I have set out above, I cant  conclude  that Zurich  has 
done anything  wrong. I am satisfied the potential increase of the service charge was covered 
in the terms and conditions of the policy and so Mr and Mrs G should  have been aware of 
this given it was their responsibility to be familiar with the terms of the contract they had 
agreed to. I also dont think being told by Zurich when the service charge was increasing  
Ref: DRN40062533would have caused them to cash in the policy early. And I am satisfied the policy  wasnt  
reviewed twice within the past year.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2020.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4006253