K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about delays by Nationwide Building Society when sending £40,000 
by SWIFT transfer to an account abroad. 
Background
On 30 November 2018 Mr and Mrs P instructed Nationwide to send £40,000 via a SWIFT  
payment to an account they have abroad. Mr P has told us that the funds were intended to 
be used for a property  purchase and for Mrs Ps business. 
Nationwide made  a mistake when  inputting the payment instructions which meant  it didnt 
reach Mr and Mrs Ps other account. From this point Mr and Mrs P regularly chased  
Nationwide for updates.
There were delays finding Mr and Mrs Ps money by Nationwide.  It was able to locate the 
missing funds and released  them on 20 December 2018. 
Mr and Mrs P complained and Nationwide responded on 20 December 2018. Nationwide  
accepted there were  delays in the investigation  and apologised. Nationwide  offered 
Mr and Mrs P £400 compensation plus a refund of the £20 SWIFT fee. 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator.  
The adjudicator thought  Nationwides offer was fair so didnt ask it to take any further  action. 
Mr and Mrs P asked  to appeal. They say that because of Nationwides  error they missed out 
on a property purchase and Mrs Ps business was affected. They  also say that theyve lost 
out due to the exchange rate. Mr and Mrs P want Nationwide  to pay around £6,300 to cover  
their losses  and compensate them for what happened. As Mr and Mrs P asked  to appeal 
their complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background  above  as all parties broadly agree 
about the circumstances of this complaint. The SWIFT payment instruction was inputted 
incorrectly and Nationwide didnt process  the payment correctly  until 20 December 2019. 
Nationwide accepts it made mistakes and took too long.  As a result, its offered Mr and Mrs 
P £400 as well as a refund of the £20 SWIFT fee. 
Mr and Mrs P have  provided detailed explanations as to why they feel the compensation 
should be higher.  Ive thought carefully  about everything Mr and Mrs P have said and 
submitted in support of their complaint  when  deciding  the fairest way to resolve  matters.  I 
havent responded to all the points Mr and Mrs P have  made  and have focused on what  I 
feel are the key issues regarding how to fairly resolve their complaint. I hope Mr and Mrs P 
dont take this approach as a discourtesy  it simply  reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. 
Mr and Mrs P have  asked us to consider compensating them  for their time based on a rate 
of £250 per hour. Mr and Mrs P have given us information about  the nature of their jobs and 
income to support this. I understand Mr and Mrs Ps point, but they werent acting in a 
Ref: DRN43254122professional capacity when the SWIFT  payment was sent. Mr and Mrs P were  acting  as 
customers of Nationwide in their personal capacity. As a result,  I wouldnt expect Nationwide 
to compensate Mr and Mrs P based  on their incomes. In their complaint form, Mr and Mrs P 
say they spent around one and a half hours a week, for three  weeks, trying to resolve  
matters. Ive factored  this in when deciding how to proceed. 
Mr and Mrs P say they missed out on a property purchase  and have forwarded  an email 
between them and the developer to demonstrate their loss. Whilst the email Ive seen shows 
Mr and Mrs P showed serious  interest in purchasing property from the developer,  it doesnt 
say they were committed or that the delay in receiving the transfer was the reason it didnt 
proceed. For me to be satisfied that Nationwides delay led to a property purchasing  falling 
through (and a financial loss)  Id have to see direct  evidence  that Mr and Mrs P were in an 
advanced stage  of the purchase process.  It would have to be clearly  established  that 
Nationwides delay  led to the deal falling through.  Whilst the email Mr and Mrs P have  
forwarded shows they expressed serious  interest in purchasing, it doesnt prove 
Nationwides delay  led to a loss. 
In much the same way, Mrs P has a business and has provided  an email  trail to show  
discussions she was having around  the time with an IT business with a quote for work.  
Whilst this shows Mrs P was talking about her business with an application developer  theres 
no evidence to show she wasnt able to proceed  because of Nationwides delay.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I havent  seen evidence  that demonstrates a 
financial loss caused by the delay.  
Mr and Mrs P say theyve lost out on the exchange  rate because  it had improved  by the time 
the transfer was processed on 20 December 2018.  But Mr and Mrs P asked Nationwide  to 
send the funds at a particular rate - which is what it did. I dont agree that it would be fair to 
tell Nationwide  to amend  the exchange rate used  and compensate Mr and Mrs P for the 
difference. 
Nationwide has offered Mr and Mrs P £400  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay.  Mr and Mrs P have told us that because of the size of the transfer the 
situation was particularly upsetting and stressful. I understand  their concerns and have taken 
them into account.  Mr and Mrs P have also told us they spent a total of around four and a 
half hours across three weeks dealing  with this matter. 
As Ive said above,  Ive taken everything Mr and Mrs P have said into account when deciding  
how to proceed.  Having  done so, Im satisfied that the £400 Nationwide  has offered fairly 
reflects the impact of its error on Mr and Mrs P. Nationwide has also offered  to refund the 
£20 SWIFT fee which, given what happened, is a reasonable step to take.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P as I can see how strongly they feel in this matter. Whilst 
I agree  that Nationwide made a mistake  which delayed  their transfer, Im satisfied the 
settlement its already  offered  is fair in all the circumstances.  As a result, Im not telling 
Nationwide to do anything  else.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Nationwide Building Society has 
already made a fair offer.  
Ref: DRN43254123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4325412