K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about unfair charges that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  has 
applied to his account when he was in financial difficulties.
background 
Mr D says Halifax gave him an overdraft he didnt ask for and has applied  excessive charges 
to his account for many years. He says he was in debt and Halifaxs actions made his 
position worse. Mr D would like the charges refunded.
Halifax upheld Mr Ds complaint and refunded charges worth  £1,186  and paid him 
compensation of £124. It says Mr Ds account should have been sent to its collections 
department in about 2013 and so has refunded the charges. It says Mr D agreed to the 
overdraft but its agreed to remove it. Halifax then looked again  at Mr Ds complaint and said 
it had agreed to increase his overdraft to try and help his position and agreed  a number of 
repayment plans  with him that he broke. It says it will increase its compensation offer to a 
further £125 which includes £20 charges not previously considered.
Mr D had brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator upheld it. The adjudicator 
explained why we couldnt look at the decision to allow  an overdraft in the first place as the 
complaint had been brought  too late. And the adjudicator thought Halifax  had tried to help Mr 
D with various repayment plans  which  meant he wasnt  being charged interest. The 
adjudicator thought the charges had been applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions but Halifax had fairly  agreed to refund them and pay a fair and reasonable 
amount of further  compensation.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and says hes paid between £4,000  and £5,000 in charges 
which he says should be refunded.
The adjudicator looked at the complaint again but thought Mr D had paid about £500 in 
charges.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr D will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I should also explain to Mr D that Im only looking at whats  happened in the 
six years  before his complaint. I can see that the adjudicator has explained to Mr D about the 
time limits we operate  under and that Mr D has accepted that part of the adjudicators  view.
Ive looked at Halifaxs records and considered what Mr D has told us. There  is no real doubt  
here that Mr D was in financial difficulties and in those circumstances Halifax  ought  to treat 
its customer positively and sympathetically.  Im satisfied that Halifax did try and help Mr D by 
increasing his overdraft which would have avoided  charges and by agreeing  various 
repayment plans.  I also think that those plans  would have reduced  the level of charges but 
that Mr D broke the terms of them.
Ref: DRN44322412Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly reviewed how it dealt with Mr D and has come  to the fair 
and reasonable conclusion  that it should  have  dealt differently with Mr D by sending his 
account to its collections  department. Im also satisfied  that Halifax has fairly refunded the 
charges since the date it considers it should  have done so and paid a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation. I appreciate that Mr D says that Halifax has only refunded a small 
fraction of the (up to) £5,000 of charges he paid. But I make  clear to Mr D that Ive not seen 
any evidence of that figure and I think the charges that he did pay were  in line with the 
account terms and conditions.
I think Halifax has also made  a further fair and reasonable offer of compensation and to 
refund a further £20 of charges it missed out. I appreciate in the circumstances Mr D may 
not wish to accept  that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide.
Overall Im satisfied Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint. I dont think it should  refund 
the charges , which amount to about £500,  that were incurred before the date it has 
concluded that the account should have  been sent to collections. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of compensation. Mr Ds acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432241