K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC hasnt upheld  his section 75 claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr E purchased an electric gate. This item turned out to be faulty so Mr E raised a section 
75 claim with Lloyds.
Lloyds considered this matter but didnt uphold the complaint. They felt the debtor, creditor 
and supplier chain  had been broken by Mr E making the actual payment through  an online 
payment service provider.  They didnt find a link between the person paid and the actual  
supplier. Unhappy with this outcome,  the matter was referred  to our service.  
An investigator has already looked  at this case. She didnt feel she could uphold the 
complaint for reasons  already expressed  by Lloyds. 
As Mr E remains dissatisfied this case has now been passed to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It should be noted that this complaint has 
been brought against Lloyds. Im therefore looking at whether Lloyds has acted fairly, not 
any other entity such as the online payment service provider. 
Very clear criteria  has to be met in order for a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 to be successful. Im afraid I too am unable to uphold  this complaint. Mr E does 
appear to have made the payment to an online payment service provider. Payment didnt go 
directly to the supplier  of the gate. And as such I think  this breaks  the crucial debtor,  creditor,  
supplier relationship. 
Mr E has raised various points since the investigator issued their view.  Ive carefully 
considered these. But Im afraid information concerning  a commercial entity agreement 
doesnt alter my decision on this case. Mr E says that Lloyds was initially  unaware of such 
an agreement.  Even  if this is the case,  it doesnt change the outcome on this matter. 
I do appreciate how upset Mr E will be with my decision. But overall  I think Lloyds has acted 
fairly in this case so I wont  be asking  them  to do anything  more.
I note Lloyds has already  paid Mr E £162  compensation for delays in responding to him 
within agreed timeframes and also to cover  the cost of calls. I think  this level of 
compensation is reasonable under the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Ref: DRN47411792Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4741179