K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (the bank) hasnt 
offered them  enough  compensation for the fraudulent transactions that took place on their 
account and for how poorly they say the bank dealt  with the situation  and their concerns. 
background 
The bank has refunded the sums fraudulently withdrawn from Mr and Mrs Ss account. 
The bank initially offered Mr and Mrs S £100  compensation  for the worry and inconvenience  
caused by the fraudulent transactions and its poor handling at times when dealing  with 
Mr and Mrs S and their concerns. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that sum as enough to settle 
their complaint.
When he began looking at the complaint, our adjudicator asked  the bank to consider  offering 
Mr and Mrs S more  compensation.  The bank offered £250 in total, but again  Mr and Mrs S 
didnt accept. So the adjudicator went ahead with his investigation.
The adjudicator concluded £250 wasnt enough  compensation and recommended the bank 
should pay £400 in total. (This didnt take account of a further £10.80  the bank had offered, 
to cover Mr and Mrs Ss expenses.) The bank accepted the adjudicators recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs S did not, saying it was still too little to compensate them  for what theyd been 
put through because of the fraudulent  transactions  and the effect the experience  had had on 
them. They said they were looking for compensation of around £2,000. 
The adjudicator, when communicating his conclusions, had said (a) it wasnt the purpose of 
ombudsman awards  to punish banks  and (b) the ombudsman service couldnt require the 
bank to compensate  Mr and Mrs Ss daughter  who had spent a lot of her time helping her 
parents as they dealt with the situation.  This was because Mr and Mrs Ss daughter  wasnt 
the banks customer. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I too have concluded £400  in total is fair and 
adequate compensation.  I dont minimise what Mr and Mrs S went through and how stressed 
and insecure it made them  feel. £400 is one of our higher awards and is a recognition  of the 
degree of the worry and aggravation that Mr and Mrs S were  subjected to as they were  
forced, without any warning and through no fault of their own, to deal with a truly alarming 
situation.
Mr and Mrs S were  fortunate to have the help of their daughter,  but the rules under which the 
ombudsman service operates and which have legal force, dont permit us to require the bank  
to compensate Mr and Mrs Ss daughter, as she wasnt the banks customer  in relation to the 
complaint. 
Its also the case, as the adjudicator said, that we arent allowed to fine or punish financial 
businesses. The purpose of our financial awards  is to compensate the customer. 
Ref: DRN43050532my final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay or have  paid Mr and Mrs S a total of £410.80 
compensation. 
The bank previously  sent Mr and Mrs S a cheque for £110.80. If Mr and Mrs S have paid 
that cheque in, the bank  need of course  only pay an extra £300. If Mr and Mrs S still have 
the cheque, it may now be too late to pay it in (it would be more  than 12 months old). So I 
suggest in that case  that Mr and Mrs S return the cheque  to us, for us to return to the bank. 
The bank would  then pay Mr and Mrs S £410.80. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4305053