K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that FCE Bank Plc (FCE),  trading as Ford Credit, misinformed him when 
they provided a final settlement figure.
background
Mr Q has been represented by his daughter during this complaint but for ease I will refer to 
Mr Q throughout this decision.
Mr Q took receipt of a new car in March  2015.  He financed the deal through  a three  year hire 
purchase agreement  with FCE. On 2 March 2018  just before his agreement  ended,  FCE told 
him the final settlement figure to take ownership  of his new car was £4,644.82.  So Mr Q paid 
that sum on 8 March  2018 and was therefore surprised to receive a further bill for £179.68 
when FCE said there  was still money outstanding.
FCE explained that the settlement quote  was valid if all payments under the agreement were 
received. But they said that the payment of £179.68  due on 8 March  wasnt received and this 
was what was still outstanding.
So Mr Q referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. He 
thought Mr Q should have been  aware  of the need  to pay the final monthly instalment and he 
thought it was reasonable to suggest  that the final settlement figure  was just that, but only if 
all the payments due under the agreement were made.
Mr Q disagreed with the investigator and therefore  asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr Q so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Q acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the deal should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr Q. If it was, and if I think Mr Q would not have  proceeded if hed 
received the correct information, Id think it reasonable to ask FCE to take some further 
action.
Ref: DRN42892012However, Im not persuaded that Mr Q was misinformed here.  The settlement quote said that 
the figure assumed all payments due up to and including 8 March  2018 would be paid - but 
they werent. A final instalment  of £179.68  appears  to have been missed so I dont think  FCE 
have been unreasonable  requesting it.
The hire purchase agreement said that 35 monthly payments of £179.68 were  due, starting 
on 8 May 2015.  So the final instalment of £179.68  was due on 8 March  2018. Ive reviewed 
Mr Qs statement of account  and can see that this wasnt paid but the optional  final payment 
of £4,635 and the £10 option to purchase  fee was received. So Im persuaded that there  was 
still £179.68 outstanding and FCE have  therefore been fair when asking for this payment. 
They therefore dont  need to take any further  action.
I note that Mr Q has also been unhappy  with the customer service he received from the 
dealership. I dont think it would be reasonable to hold FCE accountable for the actions of 
the dealership  where they werent  acting on their behalf  and here I think that was the case. 
Mr Q should therefore  raise any service issue directly with the dealership but its not 
something this service can consider.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4289201