K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Mrs D took out a store card in May 1995. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover  
her card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100  of the balance on Mrs Ds store card.  A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Mrs D was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness  or lost her job. The benefit  
would continue to be paid until Mrs D returned  to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld because  he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Mrs D.
Mrs D disagrees.  She says the policy wasnt properly  explained  and not necessary for her 
circumstances. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Mrs D applied for a store card.  Theres  limited 
information available to me about  what happened  at the time of sale. Because  of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have  been  said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been  given.
FICL had to make sure the policy was presented  as optional and that Mrs D agreed  to take 
it. Ive looked  at the credit agreement that she signed and I think  it was clear the PPI was 
optional and that Mrs D chose to take it.
I say this because  I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
words Yes, I want my Account covered with Payment Protection. If Mrs D didnt want PPI 
she had the option below  this to tick the box next to the words No, I do not require 
protection. I dont think Mrs D wouldve ticked the box to take PPI if she didnt want it, so I 
think Mrs D had PPI because she chose  to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs D to take PPI. What this means  is that FICL didnt recommend 
PPI to Mrs D based on her circumstances, they just gave her information about PPI and it 
was up to Mrs D to decide if the policy  was right for her. This information  needed  to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading  so she could make  an informed choice about 
buying PPI.
Ref: DRN49990252FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs 
D to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Mrs D needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy,  I think  she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know  about the policies sold:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs D says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
couldve relied  on her husband to make  her repayments if she couldnt work.  But theres 
no guarantee her husband would be able to help and a successful claim on the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits. So I think the policy still wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for Mrs D in her situation and I cant see how knowing this 
information wouldve  changed her mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs D and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs D on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint against  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4999025