K820x#14Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited (OMW) continues to 
charge him smoker  rates for his whole  of life assurance policy  and that it unfairly  reduced  the 
sum assured in 2018.
Background
Mr L took out a reviewable whole of life assurance policy  with OMW in 1992. At the time, he 
was a smoker  so the life cover was priced accordingly. In 1999 Mr L contacted  OMW to ask 
whether his smoker  status could be changed to non-smoker. OMW told him it couldnt make 
any changes to his contract.
In 2018 Mr Ls policy  failed a review. He was told the premiums he was paying couldnt  
sustain the sum assured any longer. So, OMW wrote to him setting  out his options. OMW  
explained that if Mr L didnt increase his premium,  it would reduce the sum assured. As 
OMW didnt hear back from Mr L, it reduced his level of cover.
Mr L complained, saying that he hadnt given his permission for the sum assured to be 
reduced  he thought  this amounted to a breach of contract. He also complained  that
OMW was charging him smoker rates for his life cover despite not having smoked for 
decades.
OMW told Mr L that the terms of his policy allowed it to reduce the sum assured if the 
premiums werent sufficient to sustain  the sum assured. It also said it had explained in
1999 why it couldnt charge him non-smoker  rates for his life cover.  Mr L referred his 
complaint to our service. He said he wasnt made aware of the terms OMW  was relying  on to 
reduce his cover.
Our investigator thought Mr L had raised  his complaint about OMW continuing to charge him 
smoker rates  too late. This was because he ought to have been  aware  of his cause for 
complaint in 1999. So, he needed to complain within three years of this date. The 
investigator said we could consider his complaint about the sum assured being reduced in 
2018, but he didnt uphold  it.
Mr L disputed the complaint  had been  made too late. He said he wasnt  aware his premiums 
could increase so he couldnt have known to complain about being  charged smoker rates for 
his life cover. He still thought the reduction  of the sum assured was unfair. He thought the 
premium he was paying now (£420.39) should  be enough to maintain the sum assured of 
£295,459.96. He didnt  think  OMW  had provided  enough evidence  to explain why its 
actuaries believed an increase was required.
I issued a decision in October 2019  explaining why I couldnt consider Mr Ls complaint 
about OMW  continuing  to charge him smoker  rates.  
Ive now been  asked to provide a final decision on Mr Ls complaint that OMW  has unfairly 
reduced the sum assured  of his policy.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Ref: DRN42258432Mr L still disputes that he brought his complaint about OMW  continuing to charge  him 
smoker rates  too late. But as Ive made  a decision on this point, I wont  be commenting on it 
any further. Hes also said that no consideration has been given to the fact his policy was 
written in trust for the benefit of his children  so they are also entitled to complain. But Im 
aware the policy was written in trust and Im satisfied I have the necessary  authority  to 
consider this complaint without express consent  from Mr Ls children.
The issue  for me to decide is whether OMW  unfairly  reduced the sum assured of Mr Ls 
policy.
Mr L says that the variation of the terms of his contract is fraudulent. He said he purchased a 
policy to provide a fixed sum-assured to his beneficiaries. But that isnt right.  Mr L took out a 
unit-linked reviewable whole of life policy. The premiums  were only guaranteed  for the first 
10 years  and the policy terms  reference  P1  say:
If, in the opinion of the Actuary  to the Company at any Review, the performance of Units  to 
which the Policy is linked is insufficient to sustain the Sum Assured and other benefits the 
Company will reduce the Sum Assured and other benefits provided that the Sum Assured 
after the reduction shall not be less than 75% of the premiums payable under the policy  from 
Commencement to age 75 of die Life Assured.
In 2018, the actuary didnt consider the premiums  paid could sustain the sum assured any 
longer. So, OMW wrote to Mr L setting out his options on 24 March  2018. OMW explained  
that if he didnt  increase  his premium, it would reduce his cover. As OMW didnt hear back  
from Mr L, it reduced his cover. Im satisfied the terms of Mr Ls policy  allowed it to do so.
Mr L has said he wasnt aware of these terms, but they are referred to in the policy 
schedules hes provided, which  say:
The Company's Terms  applicable  to Whole Life Policies (Reference  P1) are incorporated 
herein and terms and conditions  used  therein shall,  where  the context so admits,  have the 
meanings assigned  in the Schedule above.
So, even if Mr L wasnt provided with a physical copy, he ought to have known  about  the 
existence of them and that they formed part of his contract with OMW. I dont think the terms 
are unclear  or unfair  ultimately an insurer is entitled to decide on what basis it will provide 
cover. And it appears Mr L chose to take out a reviewable whole of life plan, as opposed  to a 
non-reviewable whole  of life plan, which wouldve guaranteed the sum assured and 
premiums but wouldve  most likely cost significantly more from the outset.
I appreciate that Mr L feels let down by this product and the fact hes paid substantial  
premiums since  1992  for an ever-decreasing sum assured. But this is the nature of the 
policy that was sold to him; like all reviewable  whole of life policies, the policy  was subject to 
reviews to ensure  the premium paid was enough to sustain the sum assured. As Mr L has 
got older, the cost of his life cover has increased.  And unfortunately, the performance of the 
underlying investment fund isnt enough  to subsidise the premiums. Furthermore because of 
the type of cover selected, which was intended to maximise the initial level of life cover at the 
expense of the value of the underlying investment, substantial  increases to the premiums to 
maintain the sum assured was always a strong possibility.
Ref: DRN42258433If the reviewable nature of the policy wasnt explained to Mr L before he agreed to take it out, 
or if he wanted to pay a fixed  premium for a guaranteed sum assured, this would  need  to be 
taken up with the adviser that sold him the plan, not OMW.
Mr L has commented that the investigator  said his contribution towards the policy in 1992  
was modest, which explains why substantial increases were made over the years.  Mr L says 
that £420.39 per month isnt modest  and should be sufficient to pay for the cover for the 
whole of his life. But the investigators comment was based  on Mr Ls initial premium 
payment, which  according to the application  form was £50 per month. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to refer to this sum as modest. But I appreciate why Mr L feels  the substantial 
sum hes paying now should be sufficient  to maintain the sum assured of £295,459.96.
Mr L isnt satisfied with the evidence provided by OMW about how his premium  is calculated. 
He says this doesnt reflect the actual cost to insure him as a non-smoker with a clean bill of 
health. But OMW doesnt calculate the cost of life cover for each individual throughout the 
life of the policy. Mr Ls premium was calculated at the outset in 1992  when he was a smoker 
and no further  assessment  of his health has taken place. I wouldnt  expect  this to be 
revisited as it would essentially require the policy to be re-underwritten.  Instead,  the 
calculations involve factors such as the rate of growth which OMW  projects for investments, 
as well as its calculation  of life expectancy for those  in Mr Ls age group. This isnt 
information which wed normally expect or require businesses to provide to consumers as its 
commercially sensitive.  So, I cant say OMW  has treated Mr L unfairly by not providing this 
information.
OMW has provided Mr L with the cost of life cover per £1,000 of the sum assured at risk 
since he took it out. This shows the premium he was paying in 2018 wasnt enough  to pay 
for the sum assured at risk. I havent  been provided with any evidence to suggest the 
actuarys calculations  are wrong. So, Im not persuaded that Mr L has been  treated unfairly 
by OMW when it carried out the policy review and decided to reduce  his sum assured.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4225843