K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that AXA Insurance UK Plc logged a home insurance claim, which 
they subsequently withdrew,  against their names. 
background
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs P discovered  a leak at their home. They  phoned AXAs claim line 
and it said it could register their claim immediately which Mr and Mrs P agreed to. During the 
call Mrs P said she didnt know whether to arrange a plumber to attend or if that was 
something AXA did. AXA said she should arrange  for a plumber to attend, locate and repair 
the leak. The policy excess of £600  was also discussed and Mrs P said that she didnt know 
if they would  proceed  with the claim given the amount of the excess.  AXA said it would  call 
them back  in a week to check on their progress. 
When AXA called Mr and Mrs P back the following week it asked what happened  with 
locating and stopping the leak. Mrs P said they had paid for all the work to be completed and 
it came  to just under  £100 so they didnt want to proceed  with the claim. AXA said it would 
withdraw it. AXA also explained that there was a notification (of the claim) on its system but 
confirmed it was withdrawn. AXA amended its internal systems the same  day to show  all 
cost estimates had been reduced to zero. 
Shortly after, Mr and Mrs P received a letter from AXA which  stated the claim had been 
settled so they complained. They said theyd been told previously their claim was 
withdrawn. Now they were concerned that every time they renewed their insurance  theyd 
have to declare  the claim which would increase their premiums. 
AXA looked  into their complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said it had 
correctly logged the claim and that Mr and Mrs P had agreed  to it doing so. It explained that 
it had duty to log all incidents reported to it irrespective of whether the policyholder  decided  
to proceed or not. So it said it couldnt change  its decision.  
Unhappy with the outcome of AXAs investigation,  Mr and Mrs P complained  to this service. 
They said to us that they had called AXA to make an enquiry and had assumed the incident  
had been logged for reference purposes. Our investigator looked into their complaint but 
didnt think AXA had unreasonably logged the claim or done  anything wrong. She said she 
could see from AXAs system notes that itd recorded the claim as withdrawn with nothing 
paid out on it. She thought this accurately reflected what  had happened. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators findings. They said they never agreed to a 
claim being logged.  They also said they were unhappy that the letter  theyd received from 
AXA said their claim  was settled in full and hadnt  mentioned itd been  withdrawn. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint again. Having listened to the two calls 
she was unable to agree that they had told AXA they didnt want to log or proceed  with a 
claim and she thought AXA had made it clear that a claim  would  indeed  be logged.  So she 
didnt think she  could  ask AXA to remove the claim from the system. And she said their 
policy terms stated that AXA needed  to be told immediately of any incident that could give 
rise to a claim. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. They said that if the 
claim was withdrawn, they couldnt  understand why theyd been sent a letter stating  itd been 
Ref: DRN42134522settled. They  thought the two were very different and remained concerned  about  having to 
declare the claim  and the effect it could have on their premiums. Our investigator said in 
reply that it was clear  that AXA had accurately recorded the claim (as withdrawn) on its 
systems. Mr and Mrs P said that still didnt explain why they had a letter stating  the claim 
was settled nor why our investigator wasnt taking this into account. They said that if AXA 
had written to them  to say the claim was withdrawn then there  wouldve been  no dispute. 
Mr and Mrs P asked  for their complaint  to be referred for an ombudsmans  decision.  Whilst 
the complaint  was in the queue awaiting  allocation  to an ombudsman, our investigator wrote 
to Mr and Mrs P to say that whilst  shed  not been able to explain why the letter  said the claim 
was settled she was satisfied that the claim itself had been correctly recorded  as withdrawn 
on AXAs  systems. She said she understood from what  Mr and Mrs P had said that it would 
be acceptable to them if the claim was recorded  as withdrawn so she asked if they had 
anything to add. Mr and Mrs P replied to say that a letter from AXA confirming the claim had 
been withdrawn  would  be what they would  like. 
Our investigator wrote to AXA to ask if it would send such  a letter to Mr and Mrs P which it 
said it would. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  to me from the sequence  of events Ive set out above, that the outcome 
Mr and  Mrs P said they wanted has now been achieved  as a consequence  of AXAs  
confirmation that it has sent them  a letter stating their claim was withdrawn. 
Mr and Mrs P are obliged by the terms of the policy they have  with AXA to tell it immediately 
they become aware of any incident  that may result in a claim whether they intend  to claim or 
not. So whilst I know when they first called AXA they did so because  they were unsure how 
to proceed with tracing, accessing and stopping  the leak, notifying  AXA was the correct  
action to take. And I think AXA made  it clear to them during the calls that it was logging the 
incident as a claim. And I think its clear  they consented. So Im unable to agree with 
Mr and Mrs P that they only called  AXA to make an enquiry. 
I can see that ultimately Mr and Mrs P decided  they didnt want  to proceed with the claim 
and I can see from AXAs systems that they correctly recorded  the claim as withdrawn with a 
value of zero. I cant say AXA acted unfairly by doing so. It does indeed retain a 
responsibility to log all incidents (not just those that end up being  claims) irrespective of 
whether the consumer wishes to proceed or not. I can see that AXA explained to 
Mr and Mrs P in its final response letter that it subscribes to the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). 
CUE is an external  insurance database for the recording of all claims, attempted  claims and 
incidents resulting  in a loss whether insured or not. Mr and Mrs Ps incident was one that 
resulted in a loss. So I cant say that AXA unreasonably recorded it as such on CUE. AXA 
had the claim categorised  as withdrawn on its own database so it should appear the same 
on CUEs. There was an incident,  AXA recorded it as a claim and it was subsequently 
withdrawn with a claim value of zero. Ive not seen any evidence that the incident has been 
recorded anything  other than correctly  on any internal or external database. 
Ref: DRN42134523It is unclear to me why AXA wrote to Mr and Mrs P to say their claim was settled as opposed 
to withdrawn. But I can see it has now written to them to correct that error and that this was 
all Mr and Mrs P ultimately required.  I should  state  that having the letter doesnt mean the 
claim would be removed  from the relevant records and databases nor would it mean 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  need to declare the incident to any future  insurer  asking about claims. 
What Mr and Mrs P have to declare to any future insurer will very much depend on the 
questions it asks them about their previous claims/incidents/losses. As Im sure 
Mr and Mrs P appreciate, the responsibility for providing honest  and accurate  answers  to 
any such questions rests  with them.  
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4213452