K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited (PFI) misled him 
about a finance agreement.
Background
In October  2015 Mr R acquired car funded by a hire purchase agreement  with PFI. He 
identified a car he wished to buy and put down a deposit. He says he had a discussion about 
finance. His employers  were able to offer him a competitive loan and he says he explored 
other lenders to see of he could improve on that. He says he told the dealer he had a loan 
offer with a rate of 4.9% over 60 months  with monthly repayments of £262.85.
He visited the dealer  a few days later and says he was told it could offer him a better deal. 
This was monthly payments of £245 for 48 months  with a balloon  payment of £3,500. He 
believed this would mean he would pay less overall  and so he agreed to this offer.
When he returned to collect the car and complete the paperwork he says the process was 
rushed. However,  he noticed the agreed  mileage had been  reduced to 6,000 and the 
salesman agreed  to amend that back to original  figure of 12,000. He says a reduced monthly 
payment of £235  was agreed. He says he signed the documents without having a chance to 
read them and only spotted the details when he wanted to downsize his car and asked for a 
closing statement. This showed that the deal would  cost him more  than if he had taken his 
employers loan.
His complaint to PFI was rejected and so he brought it to this service. It was considered  by 
one of our investigators  who recommend it be upheld. She noted PFI had set out the sales 
process in its final response letter to Mr R and suggested that he had signed to say he had 
been given details of the agreement. She asked Mr R about this document  and he said he 
had never  seen it and he didnt  believe the signature was his. She thought the signature 
differed from the ones  on the other documents signed at the time.
She said the onus  was on Mr R to read the documents  before signing regardless of the time 
pressures, but she wasnt convinced he had seen the full terms and conditions  of the 
agreement and that he had been  misled. She suggested  the contract be cancelled.
PFI didnt agree and said it was concerned  that there had been a suggestion of fraudulent 
activity. It argued that Mr R used two types of signature  and it thought it reasonable to 
believe he had signed all the documents. It said Mr R had a duty of care to read all the 
documents and he had chosen to collect the car close  to the time the dealer closed for the 
day. It also noted he had picked up the mileage discrepancy which suggested  he had read 
the paperwork.
He had been given a copy of the agreement to take away,  but he had only noticed the terms 
and conditions some  years later. It believed Mr R had regarded  the finance agreement as a 
better option as the term was shorter and the monthly payments less. It was also more 
flexible. Mr R reiterated that he wouldnt use two different types of signatures and the one on 
the disputed document had been taken from his driving licence which  he had signed when 
he was 17.
Ref: DRN48564102I issued provisional  decision as follows: 
I addressed the issue of the disputed signature  first. I explained that I am not handwriting  
expert and I couldnt  say if the document was signed by Mr R. I noted he said it wasnt but it 
was possible he did sign it and had forgotten. I thought it possible that the salesman simply 
put Mr Rs name on it, but whatever happened  I didnt  believe that the investigator had 
suggested the salesman was guilty of fraud and I certainly dont hold that view.
That said I pointed out that I didnt believe the matter of the signature was key to my 
decision. If one looked only at the document signed in the 30 minute window then I would 
feel obliged  to dismiss the complaint. However, I said I had to take into account the wider 
circumstances as set out by Mr R. I said that I found his explanation of events both 
consistent and persuasive.
Firstly, he had provided the loan offer made by his employer which  confirmed he had 
arranged a better finance arrangement than the one he signed  up to with PFI. While I 
believed there  were some additional  benefits with the PFI deal I could see that these came 
at a significant financial cost. I didnt consider the reduction in monthly  payments was 
significant and that alone was unlikely to have  persuaded Mr R to opt for the PFI deal.
It was also clear to me that the mileage figure  was wrong and if Mr R did bring it to the 
attention of the salesman  then I was unsure as to why it wasnt  amended.  If he didnt notice 
it then that suggested to me that he didnt read the documentation. If he didnt read it I wasnt  
not sure why he would  sign to say he had or why the salesman would have accepted  that he 
had done so if it was clear  he hadnt.
I thought Mr R relied on the salesman  to honour the terms  he had offered after Mr R had told 
him the details of the loan he had already  arranged.  I didnt believe Mr R would have agreed 
to the PFI agreement if he had been told the actual terms.  I was satisfied that the 6,000 
miles a year which was a key part of the offer was unrealistic given Mr Rs need  to use the 
car the get to work. 
I wasnt sure Mr R had a duty of care to read the documents, but I agreed it would have 
been wise of him to do so. I believed the duty of care lay with the salesman to ensure the 
terms and conditions met what he had offered Mr R and I didnt believe they did. To that 
extent I considered Mr R was misled. I agreed had he read them in full he would have 
spotted the discrepancies, but all that meant  was that he would  have identified  these earlier. 
However, he did identify  them  later and that meant  it was open to us to rectify the matter.  
It had been my intention  to direct the business to allow Mr R to reject the car and to refund 
his deposit. However,  I had since discovered that Mr Rs agreement  came to an end on 31 
October 2019 and the business asked  him what he wanted to do. I wasnt aware that it took 
note of our investigators  recommendation at this point and Mr R paid £7,420  to buy the car.
I concluded that the best way to put Mr R back in the positon he would have been  in had he 
not been mis-sold  the finance agreement was to direct the business  to refund the difference  
between what he paid it and what he would have paid had he taken out a loan from his 
employer. This would have cost him £15,771. I also considered he should be paid £200  for 
the distress and inconvenience  he suffered. 
Ref: DRN48564103Mr R thought my provisional  decision was fair for the most part, but he said that he felt 
aggrieved about  two issues. Firstly  he didnt receive  any advice on whether to buy the car at 
the end of the agreement  and had to borrow money  to fund the purchase.  He thought the 
interest on this loan to be taken into consideration. Secondly he didnt consider the 
compensation of £200 to be fair given the severity  of the inconvenience he had suffered.
PFI didnt agree and said it was acting as broker and not the lender. It said it had no record  
of Mr R being offered  an agreement with payments at £245. It also said Mr R should provide 
evidence to it of the employers  loan offer. It said Mr Rs awareness  of the mileage 
discrepancy suggested he had read the loan offer.  It added  that the finance agreement  
clearly showed the costs  and he had no need to await the statement. PFI also said Mr R had 
been looking  to downsize his vehicle because of financial difficulties and his complaint about 
the loan came later. 
It said Mr R had asked the lender for a settlement figure in December 2017  having already 
had two statements  and again in January 2018. He also made an online enquiry saying he 
was struggling to make his payments  and made  several more enquires.  
It said the evidence  showed Mr R was presented with one contract  which he read and 
signed. It also queried the issue  of different signatures. It concluded by saying Mr R had 
exceeded the allowed mileage and so had chosen to pay for it in full.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where necessary and / or appropriate, I 
reach my decision on a balance of probabilities   that is, what I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances.
I acknowledge that PFI is the broker in this agreement, but it is the subject of the complaint. 
It has implied that Mr R has been  trying  to find a way out of the agreement  due to the excess 
mileage charges and it casts doubt  on the motivations for the complaint. I note he first raised 
the issue back in May 2018, not that long after he had explored the cost of settling  the 
agreement. I dont consider that undermines the basis of the complaint. There are many 
triggers which can cause a consumer  to complain and not everyone addresses these 
immediately. So while I see why PFI has taken  this line I am not so persuaded.
PFI says it has no record  of a reduced offer being  made to Mr R and I dont find that 
surprising. Mr R has always maintained that this is what he was told by the salesman and 
what he presumed was in the agreement  he signed. The key to his complaint is that what  he 
signed was not what he was told it would  be.
I believe Mr R was presented with one contract  and just because he spotted an error with a 
figure doesnt mean that he read it in full. I agree it would have been wise of him to have  
looked at it more closely, but, as he says the process was hurried. The key is what he was told 
by the salesman and why he would have accepted a worse deal than the one he was offered 
by his employer.  Incidentally, Mr R has suppled a copy  of that offer which I am satisfied is 
genuine and it is one which was open  to him to accept.  I still find it hard to believe that Mr R 
would have accepted an offer from the salesman  if he didnt think  it at least matched what he 
already had on the table, which is why I am still minded to uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN48564104I appreciate Mr Rs concern at the delays in resolving  his complaint, but PFI was entitled to 
mount a defence and to maintain its position.  As such I dont consider that any more  
compensation is merited. Nor do I think that PFI should be liable for any interest  Mr R may 
incur after the agreement was ended. It may have been a difficult  decision as to what to do, 
but that was his choice. It was open  to Mr R to have returned the car and paid any excess 
mileage penalties of they applied. In considering  the redress originally I had taken into 
account that he either had additional interest  to pay or had the loss of use of money had he 
used his own funds.  As such  I am not persuaded that I should change  the redress. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Pendragon Finance and Insurance 
Services Limited to refund  the difference between what Mr R paid and what he would have 
paid had he taken  out a loan from his employer. This loan would  have cost him £15,771. I also 
direct the business  to pay him £200  for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4856410