K821x#15complaint
Mr N complained that Credit Resource Solutions  Ltd (CRS)  was regularly overcharging him 
for a debt.  He said although hed contacted it about this a number of times and it had 
promised to sort the problem out, it just kept happening. 
background
Mr N said hed been overcharged for debts  that CRS was managing. He said hed contacted  
it in July and August  2018 about payments  being  taken twice.  He thought that in august, all 
of the existing arrangements had been cancelled, and new arrangements had been set up, 
which would make sure that he only paid once for each of his debts. But he said the problem 
happened again at the end of September, so he rang in October. He was extremely  unhappy  
with the service he received on that call.
Mr N said that hed only wanted CRS  to stop taking  his payments twice  when  he rang it, but 
now he also wanted compensation of £100  paid into his CRS account.  
CRS said it had listened to the call it had with Mr N in October, and it was disappointed. It 
felt this was well below the standard of service it would expect. But if there were duplicate  
payments on Mr Ns account, thats because theyd been set up by Mr N himself, using 
CRSs customer interface. CRS didnt think it had caused those. But it also said Septembers 
duplicate payment hadnt yet been  refunded to him, so it would do that now. It apologised  for 
the mistakes.
Our investigator said that Mr N had only actually been charged twice on one occasion. This 
happened on one of his two accounts, in September. CRS took two payments, one on 25 
September and one on 27 sept. But our investigator thought CRS' actions made Mr N think 
he was being  regularly overcharged. She knew this one extra charge had been refunded, but 
thought CRS  should also pay £100  for the worry it had caused Mr N. She also wanted  CRS 
to make sure Mr Ns online  account was accurate in future. 
Mr N had also told us that CRS  had informed another business that he wasnt  paying, so he 
was being chased for the debt. Our investigator said that wasnt part of his original 
complaint, so Mr N would need to make a complaint to CRS about that, to give it a chance to 
put things right, before our service would look at it.
Mr N accepted our investigators proposed resolution. But CRS said that the one duplicate  
payment which  was made, wasnt its fault. It said it can take payments, and its customers 
can set up payments themselves, using an online customer portal. When the previous  agent 
had started to reset Mr Ns payments, in September, shed checked that customer  portal to 
see if Mr N also set up a payment himself. There was actually a regular payment set up by 
him through  that portal, but CRS agent hadnt  been  able to find that because Mr N used the 
wrong reference number for it when he set it up. So CRS didnt think that the problem had 
initially been  caused by it.
Our investigator said she hadnt  blamed  CRS for the duplicated payments in September.  
She did think it was to blame for the poor service  Mr N received, and that hed been  led to 
believe there were other duplicated payments. CRS  said it had no evidence to suggest Mr N 
had been led to believe there  was any duplication  of payments in July or August. And it 
didnt think it should pay compensation as well as apologise for the problems on the October 
call. 
Ref: DRN41942042Mr N said again that he was being  chased  by another  company for one of the debts CRS 
managed. He thought this was all related to the problems  hed been  having with CRS.  Our 
investigator couldnt see anything to suggest that was the case. This case  then came  to me 
for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr N said he rang CRS in July and August  because  of duplicated payments, but CRS says 
that there  werent  any duplicated payments on his account then. I havent been able to see 
any in the evidence that CRS has sent, but I dont have the full picture. CRS has sent us the 
details of one of the two accounts that Mr N pays. A duplicated payment couldve gone to the 
other account. Or it may simply be that refunded duplicates no longer show  on his account. 
So we asked  Mr N for evidence of this, and he sent us his statement for the end of August 
2018. That does  appear to show that three payments were  made  to CRS on the same day in 
August. We also asked Mr N for earlier statements, to see if there  were  also duplicated 
payments in July, but he hasnt sent us those. 
Ive considered the evidence I have carefully.  On what Ive seen in this case,  I can quite 
understand why Mr N thought his payments were duplicated in August. That fits whats  on 
his statements, and it would explain  why he contacted CRS then. It seems as if an agent 
tried to fix things for him then. 
We do know why the payments  went wrong  again  in September.  CRS has now explained 
this was to do with how Mr N registered  a payment that he set up using its online customer 
portal. I dont  think that error was solely CRS fault.  I think  its understandable that this 
duplicate payment wasnt found  earlier, because  Mr N had used the wrong reference 
number.
But I think that when  Mr N contacted CRS in September, the call handler ought to have 
either given  him a clear explanation of what had gone wrong,  or at the very least  agreed  to 
look into this and help him to sort it out. Unfortunately that didnt happen. I know  Mr N now 
has the explanation he was seeking,  and Ive said I dont think  the core problem was CRS 
fault. But I think it wouldve been helpful  if that explanation had been given to Mr N rather 
earlier. 
I think that was poor service, and I think our investigator was right to suggest that Mr N 
should be paid some compensation for that.  
I dont know whether any duplicated payments made in August were returned  to Mr N. I 
know that Mr N told us about this, but I think he did that as part of the background to his 
complaint about  what happened in September and October. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that a failure to return duplicated  payments  from August has formed part of this 
complaint. If Mr N is concerned about  this, he can ask CRS about  it, and potentially complain 
to our service in due course. 
Ref: DRN41942043When our investigator reached  her decision, she understood  that the duplicated payment Mr 
N made in September had been  returned to him. CRS says its done that. But Mr N says he 
hasnt received it. So, as part of this decision,  Ill require CRS  to pay that money back to him 
if it hasnt done  so already. 
Mr N wanted any compensation to be paid onto both his CRS accounts.  But hes also told us 
that the company he originally owed the money  to is now chasing him for the debt too. So Ill 
ask CRS  to make any payment to him directly,  and he can decide where its sent after that.
CRS has told us that it hasnt purchased  any of Mr Ns debts. It doesnt do that. CRS only 
acts on behalf  of the original lender. CRS  isnt, therefore, in control of what that original 
lender does, and whether it wants to take enforcement action against Mr N. 
Mr N says that one of his lenders is now chasing him for its money  back. He thinks thats 
CRS fault, and it shouldve put a hold on this debt. Our service does sometimes ask 
companies to hold a debt while a complaint is progressed, but companies dont have to do 
that. In this case, CRS says it did put the accounts on hold. 
Our service wouldnt be able to consider, as part of a complaint against CRS,  any concerns 
Mr N has about the lender  who has contacted  him directly. And if this was as a result of 
something that CRS did or didnt do, our service  would need to give CRS an opportunity  to 
consider that first, before  a complaint could be brought to us about that. So I wont deal with 
that here.  Mr N can, as our investigator  suggested,  complain separately  about that if he 
wishes.
my final decision
My final decision is that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd must  pay Mr N £100 in compensation. 
And it must return to him the duplicated  payment of £25 that it received  in September 2018,  
if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4194204