K821x#15complaint 
Mr B has complained about problems he has experienced with a car financed by Hartwell 
Finance Limited  (Hartwell) under a hire purchase  agreement.  
background
Mr B acquired a second hand car in May 2017 for £17,500. He paid a £10,000  deposit  and 
financed the balance through Hartwell. At the time of the sale the car was approximately  
eight years old and had completed  around 56,990 miles. Mr B also bought a warranty for the 
car. 
Mr B contacted the dealership in mid-July  2017  and reported corrosion to the brake  discs  
and pads. He also complained that a wind deflector wasnt supplied  with the car, there was a 
problem with the satellite navigation  and fuel consumption was greater than it should be. 
Mr B lives some distance from the dealership and it was agreed the dealership would post 
replacement brake  discs and pads to him. Mr B said he had these  fitted at a local garage. 
In mid-September 2017 Mr B took his car to a garage so that a gearbox  software  reset could 
be carried out. He said this improved the cars  fuel consumption. 
Mr B complained to the Consumer Ombudsman  in September  about the dealership that sold 
the car to him. The ombudsman decided the dealership had done enough to address  all of 
the issues with the car. 
Mr B contacted the dealership in late September and told them  a local garage recommended  
he should change  some of the tyres  on the car to stop it pulling left. He told the dealership 
he would  wait until the tyres reached  the legal limit before changing them.  
Mr B took his car to a different garage in early October 2017 to have the satellite navigation  
software updated. A vehicle health check was carried out at the same time.  In summary, the 
engineer recommended  that three tyres  should be changed due to wear, a slight oil leak 
should be investigated and front springs,  one of which  had a slight  red rusty mark and part 
missing, should be replaced.  
Mr B contacted the dealership in December 2017  because the car began vibrating when 
braking at motorway speeds. Mr B thought this was associated with brake discs and asked if 
the discs were still under warranty. The dealership said Mr B could  either go back  to the 
business that fitted the replacement brakes  it sent to him or he could  bring the car to them. 
The car was inspected by the dealership in late December and it fitted new brake pads and 
discs in January  2018. 
Mr B complained to this service in January 2018 about Hartwell  and asked to reject the car. 
In addition to the problems  he had with the car, he also said the advertisement  for the car 
said it had two previous  owners, when the V5 shows  three previous owners. He also said the 
car was listed in the advertisement  as being in perfect condition  when  this is not the case.
Mr B said he was driving the car in February 2018 when one of the coil springs broke and 
punctured a front tyre. He says he was travelling  at speed at the time and was lucky  to avoid 
serious injury. He believes the fault with the coil spring was present at the time of supply. 
Ref: DRN45956182Mr B had the broken coil spring replaced  in February 2018. He also had the wheels aligned  
and the front tyres  replaced in the same month and the back tyres replaced in May 2018.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. He said Mr B reported  issues with the brakes, 
steering and an oil leak soon after the sale. And these faults are still present  after repairs 
have been attempted, so its a fair outcome for Mr B to reject the vehicle. 
With regard to the failure of the coil spring  in February 2018, our investigator  didnt  think  it 
was likely this issue was present at the time of sale. Our investigator also said that Mr B 
shouldnt be refunded for repair  costs to get his car through its MOT  in May 2018. 
Our investigator said the cost of wheel alignment  and the purchase of new tyres should  be 
refunded to Mr B. He said that Mr B reported  the steering as pulling to one side shortly  after 
supply and so its more likely than not this fault was present at the time of supply.
Hartwell offered to accept  the return of the car, to settle the finance and to give Mr B just 
under £8,500. Mr B didnt accept the offer. Hartwell also asked to have an inspection carried  
out by an independent  engineer at the dealership premises. It agreed to provide Mr B with a 
courtesy car while this was being  carried out. 
Mr B was concerned about Hartwell inspecting the vehicle. And our investigator  said that as 
an independent engineer  had recently  inspected the car, he didnt think  it was necessary for 
Hartwell to carry out a further inspection. Hartwell was unhappy  with this it didnt think  the 
engineer Mr B arranged  knew  about  the incident  in February 2018 in which the coil spring  
broke. It said for this reason the findings of the engineer couldnt be relied on. So the 
complaint was passed to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2019. I explained that I intended  to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint in part and ask Hartwell to pay him £84 for the gearbox  reset.  I also said Hartwell  
did not have to take any further action in relation to the other issues raised by Mr B. In 
addition, I said the inaccurate statements in the advertisement  did not induce Mr B to buy the 
car.
Hartwell responded  and has agreed with the outcome in the provisional  decision.  
Mr B also responded  and does not agree with the outcome. His main concern is in relation to 
the car being  misrepresented in the advertisement as being in perfect condition, as well as 
there being a greater  number of former owners  on the V5. Mr B said he didnt receive a copy 
of the advertisement until February  2018 and this is why he wasnt able to bring the 
discrepancies to the attention of the dealership earlier. 
Mr B also mentioned a number of other points: 
the brakes began  juddering soon after he bought the car and it shouldnt matter  that 
he didnt report this before  December 2017,  because reporting that the brakes  were  
corroded should be enough. Mr B said the brake discs  and pads were replaced 
around a year ago and there have been  no further problems.  
he didnt know until early 2018 that a garage  found a section of coil spring was 
missing in October 2017 and recommended both springs should be replaced. He 
said he shouldnt have  had to repair the coil springs  in order for the car to pass an 
MOT. 
Ref: DRN45956183he continues to have  problems with the gearbox. He bought specialist software  and 
uses it to reset the gearbox every  three  to four months. Mr B said he intends to deal 
with the gearbox  issue under the warranty purchased from the dealership.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding  
Mr Bs complaint. 
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. Hartwell,  as the finance provider, is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is therefore responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of those  goods.  The Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) is of 
particular relevance  to this complaint. It says that under a contract to supply  goods,  there  is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account the description of the goods,  the price  
and all the other relevant circumstances. So in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances to take into account might  include things like the age and mileage at the time 
of sale and the vehicles history. 
If the goods arent of satisfactory  quality, and depending on the specific  circumstances,  a 
consumer might be entitled to a repair,  replacement or to reject  the goods.  
So when deciding whats  fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about whether the car 
supplied by Hartwell  was of satisfactory  quality and whether  the car was misrepresented  to 
Mr B.   
was there  a misrepresentation?
When Mr B first complained to this service it was on the basis that the advertisement for the 
car said there were  two previous owners, while the V5 said there were three previous 
owners. He also said he was misled into believing the car was in perfect condition. He 
wanted to reject the car because  of this and other ongoing problems. When  Mr B responded 
to the provisional  decision  these were  the issues that were of most concern  to him. He said 
that he would have complained sooner about the misrepresentations,  but he wasnt  able to 
get a copy of the advertisement until February  2018.  
Ive seen a copy  of the advertisement  and the V5. Both parties agree an incorrect number of 
owners were  listed in the advertisement. So Im satisfied  the advertisement contained  a false  
statement about the number of previous owners. And the car was clearly not in perfect  
condition. But to uphold  Mr Bs complaint, I would also have to be satisfied that he wouldnt 
have wanted the car if these false statements hadnt been made. Im satisfied,  however,  that 
this is not the case. Ill explain why.  
Mr B was sent the V5 around three weeks after acquiring the car and so was aware of the 
number of previous  owners for around  eight months before he raised  it as a concern. Mr B 
said he didnt raise  this with the dealership  sooner because he only became aware of the 
discrepancy when  he was sent a copy of the advertisement in February  2018. Although it 
seems likely that Mr B didnt initially know about the discrepancy, he did become aware of 
Ref: DRN45956184the correct number of previous owners quite soon after acquiring  the car. And if he had 
wanted a car with fewer owners then he would have brought this matter  to the attention  of 
the dealership  when  he received the V5. So Im satisfied that if the statement in the 
advertisement about the number of owners  had been an inducement for Mr B to buy the car 
then he wouldve complained sooner to the dealership. For this reason I dont think Mr B 
would have done anything differently had he been told the correct  number of previous 
owners.
Mr B said he went to a dealership and spent more money than he might have elsewhere so 
that he could get a car in tip top condition. I dont doubt this. Mr B clearly  wanted a car that 
wouldnt give him too much trouble and was willing to pay more for that. But I dont think  he 
necessarily expected a perfect  car. Im satisfied, given the age and mileage of the car, that 
if the advertisement had said the car was in good condition,  he would most likely have 
bought it anyway. I say this because some of the emails he sent to the dealership  soon after 
taking possession of the car show he was aware  (and accepted)  a car of this age and 
mileage was prone to some wear and tear. 
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
For me to say its fair for Mr B to be allowed to reject  the car, I need to first be satisfied  the 
issues hes experienced with the car means it was of unsatisfactory  quality at the time of 
sale, taking into account all of the relevant factors. 
At the time Mr B acquired the car it had done over 56,000 miles and was eight years  old. 
And I think a reasonable person might expect there to be some  wear and tear on a car of 
that age and mileage. An MOT was carried out immediately prior to the sale and the vehicle 
was assessed  as roadworthy,  with no advisories.  
Some of the problems Mr B reported  with the car have already been looked at by the 
Consumer Ombudsman.  However, the complaint it looked at was against the dealership  
rather than the finance provider  Hartwell. So I will also look at all of the issues  that Mr B 
complained to this service  about, as my role is to look at how the finance provider (who is a 
separate business to the dealership)  has dealt  with Mr Bs complaint. 
The dealership has paid Mr B for a replacement wind deflector and satellite navigation 
upgrades. This has put right these  particular issues. For this reason I dont think Hartwell  
needs to do anything else in relation to them. 
Mr B told the dealership  about excessive fuel consumption in July 2017. He said the car was 
running at around  20mpg when he expected it to run at 25mpg. He said the dealership  
ignored his complaint. Mr B took the car to another garage in September  2017 and a 
gearbox software reset was carried out, at a cost of £84. Mr B said this rectified the 
excessive fuel consumption issue. 
Its certainly the case that Mr B raised this issue quite soon after acquiring  the car and I cant  
see that the dealership tried to address it. Mr B has provided an invoice to show he was 
charged £84 to have  the gearbox  reset and I think  he should be refunded  this amount by 
Hartwell. This is because Im satisfied, on balance, that there was a problem with fuel 
consumption that meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.  The notes from the garage say 
the gears werent changing correctly and its likely  this impacted the fuel efficiency. It 
appears the gearbox reset  fixed  that problem, which is why it would be fair for Hartwell to 
refund that to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN45956185When Mr B responded to the provisional  decision he said he continues  to have problems 
with the gearbox, but he intends to deal with these under the warranty  purchased from the 
dealership.
Mr B reported corrosion to the brake  discs  in July 2017. The dealership  sent replacement 
brake discs  and pads  to him and Mr B chose to have them fitted at another  garage. Several 
months later he reported that the car was juddering when braking. 
Hartwell are responsible for ensuring  the car they supplied to Mr B was of satisfactory  
quality. But the issues with the brakes  juddering only started  after Mr B had new brake pads 
and discs fitted at a third party garage. So it appears this issue wasnt  present with the car at 
the time it was supplied  to Mr B. 
When Mr B responded to the provisional  decision he said it shouldnt matter that he didnt 
report the juddering  before December 2017, because  he thinks it should be enough that he 
reported that the brakes were in bad condition. He said the corrosion was a more worrying  
problem than the juddering, as a car with corroded  brakes cant be used. Mr B said he had 
the brake discs  and pads replaced within the last year and there  have been  no further 
problems with the car juddering. He said the dealership is at fault for not supplying him with 
the right brake parts from the start. 
Hartwell might in certain circumstances  have responsibility for the work carried out by the 
supplying dealership (or another garage  Hartwell instructs). But in this case  the garage that 
fitted the replacement brakes  had no relationship with Hartwell that might make  them  
responsible for their actions. Mr B hasnt  provided anything to persuade  me the brakes were 
juddering before the replacements were  fitted, or that they are being caused by some other 
underlying fault with the car that might  be Hartwells responsibility. For these reasons I dont 
think the current issues with the brakes mean  the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
Mr B did contact the dealership in December 2017 to complain of the brakes juddering. The 
brakes were  replaced in January  2018 by the dealership. This seemed to resolve the 
problem for a further four months. Although it was the dealership that replaced  the brakes 
the second time, this doesnt mean Hartwell are responsible for any subsequent  problems 
with them.  This is because Mr B made his own arrangements to have the first set of brakes 
fitted in July 2017. This means  I cant be sure that this was a problem that was present or 
developing on the car at the point of sale or might have been caused by the third party  
garage.
Mr B said there are difficulties with the steering and the car is pulling to one side when he is 
driving and this is causing uneven wear to the cars  tyres.  Mr B said the car had good tyres 
when he bought it and reported problems after 3,000 miles. 
Mr B has said that although  the steering problems remains,  it has improved since he got 
both coil springs replaced on the car. He said the inspection arranged  by him in May 2018 
says the vehicle is pulling to the left and the steering wheel is out of line. The engineer said 
this could be caused by parts not being manufacturer  parts, but he couldnt be sure without 
further investigation. The engineer also said that the wear  and tear on the front tyres was not 
in line with the mileage done since Mr B replaced  the tyres  in February 2018. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the tracking  was out of alignment when the vehicle 
was purchased. While there  does  seem to be some  uneven  wear on the tyres, by the time 
Ref: DRN45956186this was reported Mr B had done an additional  3,000  miles. Its my understanding that 
tracking can become  misaligned at any time and so I cant  say that the misalignment was 
present at the point of sale and so I wont be asking Hartwell to take any further action. 
Looking at the issue of the turbo  oil leak, the dealership agreed to pay for the oil seal to be 
replaced at a garage closer to Mr Bs home  in September 2017. But when Mr B complained  
to this service in February 2018,  he said the problem had returned. 
Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to hold Hartwell responsible  for the most recent oil leak. 
Mr B hasnt provided any information  about what the likely cause of the leak is. And as Mr B 
arranged for his own garage  to carry out a previous  repair it isnt possible to know whether 
this is a new problem,  a recurring one or due to an unsatisfactory repair  by the other garage.  
Mr B said one of the front coil springs  broke  while he was driving the car in February 2018 
and damaged one of the front tyres. He had this replaced but I believe he wasnt able to use 
the car for some time and this clearly  caused  him a good deal of inconvenience. He said that 
Hartwell shouldve known  about the problem with the coil spring at the point of sale,  as the 
health check carried out in October 2017  suggested a section  of one of the coils was missing  
and recommended that both front springs  should  be replaced given the age of the car. 
The MOT  that was completed in May 2017,  just before Mr B bought  the car, didnt highlight 
any problems with the coil springs.  Its impossible  to know when the section of missing coil 
actually broke. It may well be the case that the coil was rusty at the point of sale,  but this in 
itself wouldnt mean the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  
And there are a number of factors that can cause coil springs to break. So its possible  that 
either spring  broke  because of factors not linked to its condition  at the point of sale.  And I 
can see that Mr B was told in October  2017 that the coil springs should be replaced but he 
didnt do this. Mr B said that he wasnt aware  that the coil springs should be replaced until he 
received a video  of the relevant inspection in early  2018. It might well be the case that Mr B 
didnt notice that the suggestion was made, but the paperwork from October  2017  does  say 
it should be done. 
So although  Mr B might have unwittingly continued to use the car with coil springs  that 
should have been replaced,  its Mr Bs continued use of the car that contributed  to the coil 
spring eventually  breaking. Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that its more  likely 
than not that neither coil spring  was broken  at the point of sale.  
Taking all of the above into consideration, Im satisfied that Hartwell should  refund the cost 
of having the gearbox reset, as this rectified  the problem with fuel consumption that Mr B 
reported to Hartwell soon  after acquiring  the car. Im also satisfied that Hartwell do not have 
to take any further  action  in relation to the other issues raised by Mr B. And Im satisfied the 
inaccurate statements  in the advertisement that Mr B has highlighted did not induce Mr B to 
buy the car. 
Hartwell had previously offered to accept the return of the car, to settle the finance and to 
give Mr B just under £8,500. Mr B didnt accept the offer. Hartwell  have  said this offer is no 
longer on the table  because Mr B has been using the car since he acquired it and its 
condition and mileage  have changed.
Ref: DRN45956187my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. I 
require Hartwell Finance  Limited to pay Mr B £84 for the gearbox reset.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4595618