K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy the online  platform Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) use, wouldnt 
allow him to transfer  money from his pension plan.  This wouldve allowed  him to access a 
cash free lump sum,  as well as provide income  to support a mortgage application.
background
In September  2018, Mr H tried to transfer money from his pension  to assist him in a house  
purchase. Avivas  new system, wouldnt allow him to complete the transfer. This meant he 
wasnt able to show he had further  income and more cash  for the deposit, and so he wasnt 
able to get the mortgage he needed  to buy the property.
Mr H complained to Aviva  about this. Aviva agreed Mr H had been inconvenienced by their 
system, and offered  him £200 in compensation. Mr H didnt  feel this was enough  considering 
he lost out on the property  he was trying to purchase. So he brought  the complaint to our 
service for review.
The investigator felt the compensation offered to Mr H by Aviva  was fair in the 
circumstances, as Aviva had offered Mr H alternative solutions  to be able to access the 
funds he needed  for the property purchase. Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint  Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate the difficult circumstances  surrounding  Mr Hs need for this house purchase.  It 
must have  been  frustrating when he wasnt able to complete  the transfer from his pension  
fund as he expected. 
Mr H says because there  was a technical issue with the online platform  Aviva  use for their 
pensions plans, he wasnt able to access the funds  he needed to. And this meant he wasnt  
able to demonstrate to his potential mortgage  lender that he had the cash  available  for the 
deposit, and the income  needed  for the lending.  
But I havent seen  anything to support what Mr H says. He hasnt given any evidence of a 
mortgage application, or that hed had an offer accepted  on the house he wanted  to buy.       
I dont doubt Mr H was interested  in buying the property. But without evidence  to show  that 
because Avivas platform was down, he lost this property purchase, I cant  say it was the 
fault of Aviva.
From what  both Aviva and Mr H say, Aviva  did offer Mr H alternatives  to accommodate his 
request, but Mr H didnt  take up any of the other  arrangements.  When things go wrong, wed 
look for the business  to try and put things right. In this instance, Aviva offered Mr H other 
ways to be able to obtain the funds from his pension. And if Mr H had taken them, he 
wouldve had the funds needed  to potentially secure the house purchase.  Because of this,    
I cant say Avivas online platform being down, caused Mr H to lose the property, when there 
were alternatives he couldve used. 
Ref: DRN41109082Aviva have acknowledged there was a technical  fault with the platform, and theyve offered 
Mr H £200 compensation  for the inconvenience. And I think this is fair in the circumstances 
so I wont be asking  Aviva to pay any more.
my final decision
I appreciate the disappointment Mr H had in not securing this house purchase. But for the 
reasons set our above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4110908