K821x#15complaint
Mr T and Mr H are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plc because it has declined the claim 
they made on their property insurance  following a tree damaging their garages  and 
subsidence of the garages being  noticed.
background
In December 2012 AXA began providing  insurance for Mr T and Mr Hs property (which is a 
house converted into three flats  Mr T owns two flats and Mr H the other).  The property 
benefits from a block  of four garages  situated  at its rear. The rear of the property sits high 
above the neighbouring ground, and the propertys land is secured by a retaining wall.  
In September  2013 a bough of a neighbouring tree fell and damaged the garages. The 
neighbour arranged to remove  the bough but this left holes in the roof. Mr T and Mr H also 
became aware  at this time of cracking which had occurred to the garages and the retaining 
wall. In February 2014 they wrote to the neighbour, noting that in the last couple of months  
since the bough had fallen the cracking had got significantly  worse. They  asked for the tree 
to be removed.
In June 2014 they contacted AXA. AXA appointed a loss adjuster, the damage was 
assessed and, in late July 2014,  a report was issued. The level of damage was noted as 
very severe,  category 5. The adjuster (a building consultant) said:
We consider that the damage has occurred within recent years  and it is likely  that 
movement is progressive.
AXA asked for further investigations to establish how long the damage had been on-going. 
The investigation process was slow as it was necessary  to seek cooperation from 
neighbours for access to their land and to make the area safe. Having done all that and 
completed the investigations the adjuster issued a further report.  He said,  in 
September 2015, that there was definitely a problem of subsidence but it hadnt been 
caused by the tree. He said the soil was very weak and had consolidated. He didnt give any 
indication as to how long this had been occurring for. 
AXA asked the adjuster  to review matters and advise as to what  its liability  for the loss might 
be, given it had only been covering the property for a short  time. The adjuster looked at the 
age of the garages and the estimated cost of the reinstatement work. He then pro-rated  the 
cost against the proportion  of time for which AXA had been  covering the property  during  the 
garages life. This figure came to just a few thousand pounds. Mr T and Mr H challenged the 
offer. In August 2017 AXA said it would  pay a total of £10,000 (which included  an allowance  
regarding the impact damage  caused by the bough in 2013). 
Mr T and Mr H remained unhappy. They noted  AXA had been the provider of cover  a few 
years before the recent  policy began (with another insurer in between).  They  questioned why 
AXA felt it was right to pro-rate  the settlement across the whole  of the garages life. AXA said 
that was just a rough  idea to demonstrate  what it saw as its limited liability  for a building that 
had clearly deteriorated over a long but unknown period of time when it wasnt providing 
insurance for the property. AXA also said that as the policy in question  is a commercial one 
the industry agreement  on subsidence claims (which requires a current insurer  having been 
on risk for more than a year to deal with progressive subsidence damage whether or not that 
began before its period of cover), which relates  to domestic policies,  wouldnt  apply.  
Ref: DRN45343252AXA maintained that its offer was fair. Mr T and Mr H complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that AXA should  take on this claim. She explained that AXAs policy  was 
only a commercial one because it related to, essentially, a block of flats.  Because the flats 
were owned  and used for residential purposes she felt it was reasonable to say Mr T and 
Mr H should be treated as domestic  customers would be and that the industry agreement 
should be applied.   
  
AXA said it hadnt signed up to the voluntary  industry agreement on subsidence. But also 
that Mr T and Mr H couldnt demonstrate that theyd  kept the property in a good  state  of 
repair, as the policy  requires, because they didnt know when the garages had last been 
checked. Which  also meant they didnt know when damage started occurring. AXA said if 
the garages had been checked  the damage  might  have  been noted at any earlier  point. In 
conclusion it felt its offer was fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that AXA has concerns  about how long the movement may have been 
occurring for. But Im also conscious that AXA hasnt been  able to determine at what point 
the movement  likely began and/or  at what point visible damage might have occurred and 
where. The retaining wall, as well as the side and rear wall of the garages,  externally 
speaking, are only visible from neighbouring properties. The garages themselves, 
I understand, were  used  for storage, so most of the walls internally wouldnt have been 
readily visible from inside the garages. Essentially, Ive seen nothing that persuades  me that 
Mr T and Mr H knew or reasonably should  have known there was damage  occurring.
The industry agreement  referred to by our investigator is voluntary and AXA hasnt signed up 
to it. However, the agreement has been in place for a considerable time and following its 
principles is now generally  considered good  industry practice. So whether  AXA is signed up 
to it or not, well likely  find it fair and reasonable to say it should abide by the principles  of it.  
We take each case  on its merits,  and Mr T and Mr Hs policy is a commercial  one, which  
often would mean that the industry  agreement wouldnt apply, as commercial  policies dont 
usually offer cover for domestic  residential individuals. But the policy  is only commercial in 
the sense that it provides cover for more than one dwelling owned by different people. That, 
in my view,  is merely  a technicality.  Looking beyond  the type of the policy  shows its nature is 
still that of providing  insurance cover for domestic residential individuals  exactly  the people 
the agreement  and good practice are designed to protect. 
The agreement/good practice dictates that once a claim is made  more  than a year after an 
insurer began providing its policy, regardless of when the damage began, that insurer  will 
need to deal with the claim. And here, AXAs  experts  have confirmed there is subsidence 
and that damage  has occurred  during  the time it has been insuring the property. Therefore, 
there is a valid claim under the policy. As such, Im satisfied  that AXA should accept and 
progress the claim.
Ref: DRN45343253my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to accept the claim for subsidence 
and carry out repairs/reinstatement/rebuilding work as necessary. In doing  so AXA will be 
able to apply the terms of its policy  but not in respect of any restrictions  re the possible 
previous state  of the building or ongoing  damage  or similar.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4534325