K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way that Santander UK Plc dealt with manual repayments he 
made to his credit card account  when he also had a direct debit in place.  
background 
Mr W had both a Santander current account and a credit  card account. He had set up a 
direct debit from his current account  to make his monthly credit card repayments. In both 
August and September 2018  Mr W repaid his credit  card manually leaving what  he 
considered to be sufficient  time for his scheduled direct debit payment to be adjusted, and 
therefore not collected. But Santander  still tried, but failed, to collect both direct debits as 
Mr W had insufficient money in his account.
Mr W says he rang the bank after each failed attempt to find out why Santander  had tried to 
take the payments given that he had already paid manually. He says bank staff were 
unhelpful and sometimes aggressive, and provided  some incorrect information,  and so he 
registered a complaint. 
The bank agreed that it shouldnt have  charged Mr W a fee for his failed direct debit because 
it had previously told him it wouldnt.  It therefore refunded that fee and paid Mr W £25 
compensation. 
Santander has an internal policy that if a direct debit  fails twice it cancels that direct debit, 
which is what it did here. The bank  says it informed Mr W by message to his online account.  
Mr W says he didnt receive  this and therefore continued to believe that his direct debit 
remained active after his September 2018 complaint  had been settled.
However, Mr W then made manual repayments until April 2019 when he says he expected 
the payment to be collected by direct  debit. But it wasnt  as Santander had cancelled the 
direct debit many months previously, and so Mr W missed his April repayment.
Mr W complained  to Santander about  that missed payment,  the potential  impact of that on 
his credit reference file, the missed payment fee hed been charged,  and about the problems 
hed had the previous year with manual repayments.
Santander refunded the fee, but that apart, maintained it had done  nothing wrong. Mr W was 
dissatisfied with this response and so he complained to us.
Our investigator considered all the key areas of complaint  identified  by Mr W and in 
summary concluded that although Santander  had done nothing  wrong, it should have done 
more than it had. In particular, the information  on its credit card statements about manual 
repayments wasnt sufficiently comprehensive.  And bank staff hadnt  been as helpful  as they 
should have been when  Mr W rang,  and in some instances they gave him incorrect  or 
misleading information. Our investigator therefore recommended  that Santander  pay Mr W 
an additional  £50, to which the bank  agreed. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome mainly  because  he believed  that Santander hadnt 
sent him an online message when it cancelled his direct debit  as it was now claiming.  
Ref: DRN46562022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander credit card statements specify a due date for that months repayment. They also 
set out what the bank  will do if customers choose  to make additional repayments when a 
direct debit is already  in place. In summary Santander says it will adjust the direct debit if the 
additional repayment is credited to the account  more than 5 working days  before the 
payment due date.  But if there are fewer  than 5 working days remaining between  the 
additional payment crediting the account and the payment due date,  the bank will still collect  
the direct  debit. The obvious question  therefore  is what happens when a repayment credits  
the account on day 5 i.e. neither more  nor less than the specified 5 working days? 
Santander plainly has a policy for such an eventuality and in practice it processes such  
payments as if they had been  paid in fewer than 5 working days  i.e. it collects  the direct 
debit. But that it will do so isnt explicitly stated on the credit card statements and customers 
wouldnt therefore be clear about  what would happen. 
With that in mind I turn now to the details of Mr Ws case. Mr W made a payment on 
20 August 2018,  which cleared onto his account on 21 August. His payment due date was 
27 August. As this was only 4 working days from 21 August Santander attempted  to collect 
the direct  debit and I cannot criticise it for doing  so as that was its stated policy.  Mr W has 
pointed out that as 27 August was a bank holiday to all intents and purposes his payment 
due date was 28 August,  which  he believes did allow 5 working days. But Im afraid I cannot 
agree with him on this because, as a fact, the payment due date was explicitly  stated on his 
statement and as such was not subject to re-interpretation by him. 
Mr Ws September payment was due on 27 September  and his additional payment cleared 
on 20 September. This was exactly 5 working  days before the due date, and therefore didnt 
satisfy either  of the criteria set out on Mr Ws statement explaining the consequences for his 
direct debit. Mr W was therefore unwise to have  relied on Santander not collecting his direct  
debit because he cant have known what action the bank would take. But I do criticise 
Santander for not making its position  clear in the information it provides to customers  on 
their statements.
Both of Mr Ws direct  debits failed because he didnt  have enough money in his account.  
When Mr W rang Santander to find out what had happened  the bank said it wouldnt charge 
him a fee for the failed collection,  but it subsequently  did. This was reimbursed when Mr W 
complained and Santander  paid him £25 compensation.
The customer service provided  to Mr W on the phone by Santander staff when he was trying 
to clarify the position was unhelpful,  and he was given some  incorrect  information.  Since  
bringing his complaint to us Santander has listened to those calls again  and agreed to pay 
Mr W an additional £50 for its poor service.  In my view this is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
But Mr W is unwilling  to accept this as it doesnt take account of Santanders failure to collect 
his direct debit repayment in April 2019.  Mr W had made  manual  repayments following the 
events of August  and September  2018, but didnt do so in April 2019 assuming instead  that 
his direct debit remained  in place and that the bank  would therefore collect the repayment 
that way.
Ref: DRN46562023But in line with its standard  practice Santander had cancelled the direct debit after twice 
failing to collect it. It says that it writes to customers in these circumstances and it has 
provided us with a copy of a letter dated  29 September  2018  it says it sent electronically to 
Mr Ws account. Mr W doesnt believe that bank  did so as he didnt receive that 
communication. 
I plainly cannot  know what happened  here, but it seems to me more likely than not that the 
communication was sent. I say this because these letters will most probably be standard 
system generated  letters triggered automatically by particular events  in this case a direct  
debit that failed twice. As such there  will be little scope for human error, although I accept 
that computers arent foolproof either. 
But that said Ive looked at the consequences for Mr W of not knowing that his direct  debit 
had been cancelled. The fee he was charged by the bank for missing his April repayment 
was refunded, and there was no adverse impact on his credit file, a point of particular 
concern to Mr W. And so although Mr W didnt  receive Santanders electronic 
communication, and he was subsequently  inconvenienced when he missed  his April 
repayment, there have  been no other  adverse consequences for him.
And so to summarise, I consider that Santander  could have done more  than it did to assist 
Mr W when he was having  problems  with his manual and direct debit credit card 
repayments. It has already paid him £25 compensation, but my decision is that a further 
payment of £50 would more fairly  compensate Mr W for the trouble and upset  he has been  
caused. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr W £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4656202