K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited cancelled his motor  insurance 
policy without telling  him. Mr F was then stopped  by the police for driving whilst uninsured  
and faced a court appearance. 
background
Mr F took out a policy through One Call and it requested information to validate  the policy. 
When Mr F didnt provide this, One Call notified  him that the policy would cancel  with 14 
days notice unless the information  was provided. A further reminder was sent by post and 
then a text was sent. Mr F said he entered his details on line, but One Call said it didnt 
receive these. And so the policy cancelled. Mr F said he didnt receive  any letters  for One 
Call and so he didnt  know  he was uninsured.  
Mr F was unhappy with this and with the service  he subsequently received when challenging 
the matter. One Call said the policy  had been correctly cancelled  but there were service  
failings. It offered Mr F £75 compensation and waived its cancellation fee. The cancellation 
wasnt recorded on any external databases.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  One Call 
was entitled to ask for Mr Fs information  to validate the policy. He thought  One Call had sent 
Mr F the letters asking for this. He thought Mr F hadnt provided this as requested.  And so he 
thought One Call was entitled to cancel the policy. He thought its offer of compensation for 
the service failings was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F replied that he had called One Call after he was stopped  by the police and it was 
unable to locate  the cancellation letter.  He thought  it was being obstructive and trying  to hide 
incompetence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Fs upset and frustration that his policy  was cancelled and he had to 
attend court as he wasnt aware of this and was stopped by the police. 
I can see that Mr F is concerned that One Call hasnt been  able to locate or provide copies 
of all the calls he made  to it. One Call said that not all calls may be recorded and some 
recordings may have  been  corrupted.  Mr F is taking these and other  concerns  to the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. I can understand  Mr Fs concern and frustration, 
but I have to base  my decision  on the evidence available. In any case,  these calls were  
made after the cancellation, so they arent specifically  relevant  to the cancellation  process. 
This service believes that insurers and brokers should  take reasonable steps to ensure that 
policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled. This is because  this will have 
serious consequences for them  and expose them to possible court  action, as unfortunately 
has been the case with Mr F. So Ive looked at what steps One Call took to warn Mr F that it 
was cancelling  his policy. 
Ref: DRN44898022When Mr F took out his policy through One Call, I can see that it sent him a text message 
telling him to log into his online account. Here he would have seen that he was required to 
provide information  about his driving  licence and national insurance number within seven  
days or the policy may be cancelled. I think One Call is entitled  to validate the policy and I 
think this is a reasonable request.
When One Call didnt  receive this information  it sent Mr F a letter telling him that the policy 
would cancel in 14 days unless it received his information. It explained how Mr F could  
provide this information. A further  letter was sent seven days  later repeating this request. 
Although Mr F said he didnt receive  these letters, I can see evidence  from One Calls 
system that they were produced and sent to the correct address. 
One Call also sent Mr F a text message two days  before  the policy was due to cancel telling 
him to go online.  Mr F said he did receive this message  and tried to enter his driving licence 
details online but he wasnt  sure that this had been  successful. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr F accessed his online account as One Calls  system  doesnt retain this. I cant  see 
that Mr F then contacted  One Call to check that all was correct, as I think  he might  have if he 
thought his attempts to enter his details  had been  unsuccessful. 
One Call didnt receive Mr Fs information, so it then sent him a letter  to confirm the 
cancellation. It then processed his refund  of premium, which Mr F received. This letter was 
sent second class before the Christmas  period and so was unlikely to reach Mr F promptly.  
But I think One Call had already provided Mr F with sufficient warning of the pending 
cancellation. So I cant say that this final confirmation should have been  sent earlier. 
So I think One Call took reasonable  steps  to warn  Mr F that his policy  would cancel. I think it 
was entitled to cancel the policy  because Mr F hadnt provided it with the requested  
information. So I cant say One Call has done  anything wrong  in this. 
I can see that One Call wasnt able to provide Mr F with the letters or information he 
requested after his policy was cancelled. This caused him frustration and stress. I think  its 
offer of £75 compensation and waiving its cancellation fee for this was fair and reasonable 
as its what Id require  in similar circumstances.  
 
Ref: DRN44898023my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489802