K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold decreasing life cover, Critical Illness Cover  (CIC)  and 
Accident and Sickness benefit (ASB) by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
In summary  he says:
He was told the policies were a condition of the business loan, but he didnt  need  
them because he had cover in place at the time. 
background 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be partially  upheld.  
In summary  she said:
Shes seen no evidence that the policies were  a condition of the lending.  If they were  
a condition, she would expect Mr Ss wife, who was part of the loan, to also need 
cover in place.  
The loan agreement  provided by Mr S didnt  mention any cover being required.  The 
Illustration document confirmed that cover wasnt necessary. 
Although Mr S had an existing whole of life policy, it was unsuitable protection for a 
loan. 
He was self-employed and didnt have any employee benefits so the 
recommendation for cover wasnt unsuitable in the circumstances.  
However, HSBC sold separate cover, whereas decreasing the life and CIC plan 
could have been sold as one policy as it would have been cheaper. 
HSBC should  refund the difference in cost with 8% simple  interest.   
HSBC agreed with adjudicators view but Mr S didnt. He maintains the policies were  mis-
sold and the adjudicator is biased towards  the business. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partially  uphold  this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr S says, Im not persuaded that 
the recommendation for cover  was unsuitable.  However, I think the life and CIC plan should  
have been sold as a single policy because it would have been cheaper  whilst providing the 
same protection. 
Having considered the evidence provided by the parties, Im satisfied  that life cover  wasnt a 
condition of the borrowing. I note the policies were taken out in March  2009, and the loan 
had been arranged prior to this in September 2008.  
Ref: DRN47051862Its possible the adviser strongly recommended  Mr S take out cover, but that doesnt mean 
the adviser was wrong to do so because  he didnt have suitable  cover in place at the time.   It 
also doesnt mean Mr S wouldnt  have  got the loan without it.  
But HSBC  should  have advised  Mr S that there were alternatives even if this meant he 
would go elsewhere  to get his policies. Whilst I appreciate that separate  policies gave Mr S 
some flexibility, a single claim would have still meant his liability being covered for less. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that a reviewable whole of life policy  wouldnt have been  suitable  
in the circumstances because the level of cover was likely to increase along  with the cost, 
running the risk of leaving Mr S being  left with cover he didnt need  at a much greater cost 
 or no cover because  he couldnt afford  the increasing cost.  Unlike  the decreasing  life and 
CIC  which  was designed to go down in line with the outstanding loan amount, over a term 
of 10 years.  And the ASB,  which was designed to pay out £869 a month if Mr S fell sick or 
had an accident,  other  than being  diagnosed with a critical  illness.  
I agree  with the adjudicators proposal to refund the difference in cost between  a 
competitively priced life and CIC policy and what Mr S paid for two separate  policies, with 
interest at 8% from the date of settlement to the date of payment. I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note HSBC has offered  to pay Mr S £150 compensation for the delay in dealing with his 
complaint that started out life as a PPI complaint.  In the circumstances I think  its offer is fair 
and reasonable.  
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator. 
But in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable  to say the recommendation for cover  
was unsuitable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint.
I think HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr S redress as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4705186