K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Welcome Financial Services  Limited  (Welcome) has offset  his 
payment protection insurance (PPI) refund against  an outstanding balance  on his account. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explains why I dont think  
it could be upheld. 
This is because I was satisfied that as Welcome was still out of pocket for the money  Mr L 
owed it, I thought it was fair for Welcome to use what it owed to Mr L in a PPI refund, to 
reduce what he owed them on the same  loan. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Welcome  said it didn't have anything  further  to add. 
Mr L wasnt happy with the provisional decision.  He didnt feel Id considered  the 
compensation offered, thought hed been deceived  by Welcome because of his mental 
health and which he says had suffered. 
I should like to reassure  Mr L that I did take account of everything that he sent to us. As 
explained, I didnt  consider whether the PPI policy was mis-sold as Welcome  had already 
made an offer for that. So I was looking at what Welcome was proposing to do with the 
compensation it had already offered, and whether that was fair. 
Im sorry  if Mr L thought I hadnt  taken into consideration the compensation that is being  
offered. But to be clear, I was satisfied that the offer already made by Welcome  to put Mr L 
back in the financial  position he would have been  in but for the PPI being mis-sold to him 
was fair. And further, what Welcome was proposing  to do with that compensation by 
offsetting it against his outstanding debt was fair.
I did also look at whether Welcome should  award  additional compensation for the trouble 
and upset Mr L had suffered  and the inconvenience  he had been put to, but concluded that it 
didnt. I know Mr L feels strongly  about this  he feels  hes been deceived  by Welcome  which  
has resulted in a detrimental impact on his mental  and physical health.  
But I explained that there will be an inevitable amount of inconvenience  in making a 
complaint and that I didnt think Welcome needed to do anything  more.  In 2011 it 
acknowledged that it couldnt  evidence  that the PPI was right for Mr L and had offered 
financial compensation to put that right. It then updated that offer in 2017 as Mr L hadnt  
accepted it. So Im satisfied it handled  his complaint as I would expect. 
With reference to anything to do with the actual loan itself - rather  than the PPI 
compensation  this is being looked  at under a different complaint reference. 
Ref: DRN41707612As Mr L hasnt given me anything new for me to take into consideration and Welcome has 
confirmed it didnt have  anything further to add, I see no reason not to confirm  the findings  in 
my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint. I think it 
is fair for Welcome Financial Services Limited to use the compensation it owes  Mr L to 
reduce his outstanding debt. I wont be asking it to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41707613provisional decision
background
Mr L had a loan with Welcome.  Mr L experienced financial difficulties  and Welcome eventually  sold 
his debt to a third party. The outstanding  balance  on Mr Ls account  was for £2,764.22. He didnt  
make any further repayments.
Mr L later complained to Welcome  that it had mis-sold him the PPI with the loan. Welcome  looked  into 
his complaint and in 2011  made him an offer of £616.11.  Mr L didnt accept  the offer but Welcome 
updated the compensation  in 2017 and offered  Mr L £634.33. After  deducting £251.60  to adjust for 
the unpaid PPI on the account, the amount was reduced to £382.74. But the sum was to be applied 
as a payment towards  the balance  outstanding on his closed  loan. Mr L was unhappy with what 
Welcome was going to do.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mr Ls complaint. He thought  that what Welcome had proposed was 
fair.
Mr L didnt agree. As the complaint remains unresolved  it has been passed to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Welcome has already upheld Mr Ls complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI so I dont have to look at 
how the PPI was sold. And Mr L hasnt complained about the amount Welcome has offered  in 
compensation, so I havent looked into this. 
I will only be looking at whether Welcomes proposal  to reduce Mr Ls outstanding debt is fair. 
When a business has mis-sold PPI we expect it to  as far as is possible   put the consumer in the 
financial position they would be in but for the PPI. This would include a refund of premiums  paid, any 
associated interest and costs plus statutory interest at a rate of 8% simple for the time the consumer 
has been out of pocket. 
As a starting point, businesses are generally allowed  to use money  they owe a customer to reduce a 
customers debt to them.  And the regulators guidance says Welcome can reduce the associated 
loan or credit card balance when  offering a PPI refund.
Welcome is still out of pocket for the money Mr L owes. But it has accepted it owes Mr L money for 
the PPI compensation, so it owes him a debt. What  it is proposing to do is setting off the PPI 
compensation against the debt Mr L owes for debt on his loan that still exists. 
As Ive said above, I have  to decide whats fair and reasonable. I dont think it is fair or reasonable  to 
argue that Mr L is owed  compensation by Welcome but that he doesnt owe Welcome  anything. From 
the evidence Ive seen,  he does owe them a debt, and thats  the balance outstanding  on his loan. So I 
think its fair for Welcome to use what they owe Mr L in a PPI refund  to reduce what  he owes to them  
on the very same loan.
Mr L has also asked me to consider whether Welcome has taken  advantage of him as he has been 
unwell, and whether it has exploited his emotional and physical wellbeing. 
I can consider this in several ways, first whether the policy was mis-sold to him, second, if 
Mr L has made a claim  but it has been unfairly declined  and third,  whether  Welcome  has caused Mr L 
trouble and upset. 
Ref: DRN41707614With regard to the first point,  Welcome has already  upheld the complaint and put Mr L back in the 
financial position he would be in but for taking  the policy.  I cant  know how the policy  was sold to Mr L 
and whether he suffered because of that, but if that was the case Welcome has remedied the 
complaint as I would expect. Only in Mr Ls case, the compensation  is to be set off against money he 
owed Welcome. So Im satisfied that this has been dealt with. 
Second, I cant see that Mr L has tried to claim on the policy and that it has been rejected. But if that 
is the case, he should  take that up with the insurer in the first instance.
I appreciate that Mr L has been inconvenienced  by making the complaint. But in dealings with 
businesses, things  can, and do go wrong from time to time. As with any complaint, there is always an 
element of a consumer having to do something if they feel the business  hasnt done something right. 
But I dont think Mr L has been put to any further inconvenience in bringing  his complaint than I would  
expect to see. So I wont be awarding  anything  further.  
I fully appreciate that Mr Ls mental  and physical health hasnt been at all good and I empathise with 
his position. I understand that in bringing  this complaint, it must  have had impact on Mr L and Id like 
to thank him for his efforts.  But overall,  Im satisfied with what Welcome  is proposing  to do. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint. I think it is fair for Welcome Financial 
Services Limited to use the compensation  it owes Mr L to reduce his outstanding  debt. I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. 
If either Mr L or Welcome  Financial Services Limited have anything further to add, they should do so 
by 13 April 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.  
Ref: DRN4170761