K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI).
Background
Mr and Mrs B arranged  a mortgage  through Lloyds  in 1994 and PPI was added to cover 
their monthly mortgage repayments if either  Mr or Mrs B couldnt work due to disablement  
or unemployment. The first policy was replaced  with a second policy in 2003.  This time, the 
policy covered Mr B only.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with 
the adjudicator,  mainly  with regard to the first PPI policy that was sold, so the complaint  
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Bs main  point in response to the adjudicator was that they had decided against 
taking out the first policy because they didnt  want it. They say it was sold to them 
unknowingly. I dont  know for certain what was said during either  sale and I realise  there 
are gaps in the information thats  still available from the first sale. But I think  thats 
understandable given  how long ago those events took place.  With that in mind, Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that Mr and Mrs B didnt choose to go ahead with the PPI or that 
they didnt know  it was separate to the mortgage  and optional.  
Regarding the sale in 2003, I can see a box on Mr and Mrs Bs signed  mortgage  application 
form was ticked to say they wanted  PPI. They also signed a separate  PPI application form, 
which included details  of the amount to be protected and how the benefits  were to be split, 
together with a separate direct debit instruction for the monthly premium.  
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs B. If thats  the case that meant, 
as well as having  to give them enough  information  to make an informed choice about taking 
the PPI, Lloyds should have looked  into whether it was right for them.  I dont know  what  
steps Lloyds took but I think its recommendations were suitable for them in any case.
From what  Mr and Mrs B have told us about  their circumstances on both occasions,  it 
appears they were  eligible  for the cover. And Ive seen nothing to show  theyd have been 
affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded, or limited, cover  for. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time but the PPI would 
have paid out on top of that and for longer at up to 12 months  per claim. It also included  
unemployment cover. The PPI would also have allowed them  to retain  any savings they 
had or use them to cover their other  living costs if either of them  wasnt  working. 
Ref: DRN41366672Overall, and taking into account that Mr and Mrs Bs borrowing was secured against  their 
home, I think  its likely  theyd have valued  the additional protection  the PPI provided  them  
with.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI, but I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs B lost out because of that. I say this because, for the same reasons I think 
the PPI policies were  suitable for them, I dont  think better information  would have  stopped 
them from buying them. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Lloyds  mis-sold either  PPI policy  to Mr and 
Mrs B.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4136667