K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr B say Lloyds Bank PLC, when trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester plc 
(C&G) sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs and Mr B took out a joint mortgage  PPI policy in December 1998 at a meeting with 
C&G and at the same time as they were  taking out their mortgage. The policy  gave 
them protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and they paid a monthly  
amount for it. Only Mr B was covered under the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr B disagreed so the complaint 
comes to me to decide. They said, in summary, they felt they were overly  encouraged and 
pressured into taking  PPI. They felt their mortgage  application would be viewed more 
favourably if they took PPI. They also said they felt they had to make a decision there and 
then about PPI. Finally,  they said they didnt  need PPI because  Mr B had adequate  cover 
through work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general  approach  to 
complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed  it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed at the time, at the meeting, with C&G. Given  how long ago 
this was, I cant  reasonably  expect Mrs and Mr B to remember  everything from the time of 
sale either. Ive seen their mortgage and PPI application. Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage 
application didnt  mention  PPI. It did mention home  insurance and they said they didnt  
want that. So, I think they wouldve understood that that insurance  was optional.   PPI was 
covered in a separate  document  from their mortgage application, so I think it wouldve been  
clear PPI was an optional and separate product from the mortgage. I think from the 
paperwork I wouldve been  clear  that they didnt  need to have PPI to get the mortgage. I 
think it more likely that Mrs and Mr B chose to take out PPI knowing that they didnt have to 
have it. I can understand why they may not remember it that way now given  how much time 
has passed.
Mrs and Mr B say they were encouraged and pressured into taking  PPI. This is a subjective  
area. But, I havent seen enough to show that C&G unfairly pressured Mrs and Mr B into 
taking out the insurance or led them to believe  they would only get the mortgage if they 
took PPI. I think it more likely that they were persuaded of the benefits of the insurance,  
given that it appeared suitable for their needs.
C&G accepts it recommended the policy to Mrs and Mr B. So it had to check it was right 
for them.  It also had to give them information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so that they could decide for themselves if they wanted to buy it.
Only Mr B was covered  under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage,  Ive taken 
into account Mrs Bs circumstances too when considering their complaint.
Ref: DRN47458292Having looked  carefully at Mrs and Mr B circumstances, I think  PPI was suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr B met the policy requirements, so he was eligible for the cover.  Mrs B wasnt in 
regular paid employment, so it doesnt  look inappropriate that the cover was taken in 
Mr Bs name only;
Mr B was employed and said he would  get at least six months worth of sick pay 
from his employer if off work  sick. He said he was also eligible for redundancy pay. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Bs work benefits and possibly for longer,  
for up to 12 months per successful claim. Having the cover  wouldve allowed them  
to use Mr Bs work benefits to meet their other household expenditure, knowing 
their mortgage repayments were  protected. They couldve made repeated claims  on 
the policy, meaning they had long term protection over their mortgage. So, overall, I 
think the PPI couldve been useful for them if Mr B was sick or lost his job, 
particularly as Mrs B wasnt in paid employment.
They said their parents couldve helped out with their repayments.  I accept they 
may have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance  on this.
I cant see that Mr B was affected by the main  limitations or exclusions  in the 
policy. So, as he couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered, I dont 
think having better information about the things the policy  didnt cover wouldve 
affected their decision to take out the policy. I think the PPI provided  them  with 
valuable protection to safeguard their home.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest that at the time of the sale the PPI wasnt affordable.  
They couldve cancelled the monthly  paid policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
Overall, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mrs and Mr B.
C&G also had to give Mrs and Mr B information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
that they could make an informed choice about the PPI. Its possible C&G couldve given 
them clearer  information, particularly  about  the costs of the policy. It cost them £49.88 per 
month for around £611.71  of cover.  But as the policy was suitable for Mrs and Mr B for the 
reasons Ive explained, I still think  they probably  wouldve taken out PPI even if they had 
been given clearer  information about it. 
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs and Mr B have said,  but this doesnt change my 
view. Had they wanted more time to think about  PPI they couldve cancelled the policy  
during the cooling off period. It follows I dont think Mrs and Mr B have lost out because  of 
any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019
Ref: DRN47458293Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4745829