K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr M in June  2015 under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse for him to use as a taxi. Hes previously  complained to Black Horse and to this service 
about issues with the car. He complained to Black Horse in December 2018  that the car had 
been defective from the point of sale because of a recurring gear slipping issue and he 
asked for a replacement car and £40,000  compensation (including £20,000 for loss of 
earnings).
It said that the car had been  driven for 125,000 miles, that the issue was a failed clutch  and 
that it wasnt uncommon for a clutch to fail at approximately 125,000 miles as it was a wear 
and tear item.  So it said that it wouldnt replace the car or pay him any compensation. He 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
current issue with the car had been  confirmed as a failed clutch  due to wear and tear and it 
hadnt been confirmed that the issue with the clutch was directly  linked to the issue that Mr M 
had experienced with the gears slipping. So he was satisfied that Black Horse had dealt with 
this complaint fairly.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary  and amongst other  things, that:
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose because of slipping gears  and 
related clutch problems which have occurred throughout the life of the car from the 
point of sale;
the fault was present when he bought the car which  has been confirmed by Black  
Horse and he was awarded  compensation by this service in December 2016;
the car has been to a manufacturers  dealer multiple times  to investigate the fault but 
its now out of warranty and the same  fault as was present when he bought the car 
remains and Black Horse has failed to repair it and isnt willing  to undertake  any 
further repairs;
the impact of the stress, inconvenience  and loss of earnings  has been significant;  
and
his claim for a replacement car and compensation  is commensurate  and appropriate 
given the ongoing  detriment to him both personally and as a sole trader.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. Whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr M was a new car, he paid 
£15,091 for it and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free 
Ref: DRN43826372from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers  durability  which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
Mr M has clearly  had issues  with the cars gears and I can understand the disappointment 
and frustration that that has caused him. He made  a complaint about the gears  slipping to 
this service which was upheld in December 2016.  He says that the gear issues have 
continued and that the car has been returned  to a manufacturers dealer multiple times 
because of those  issues. 
He complained to Black  Horse in December 2018  and it contacted the dealer which  said that 
it had inspected the car and that the issue related to the clutch and wasnt  connected to the 
previous issues that hed experienced with the gearbox. The dealer said that the gearbox  is 
a mechatronic  unit and there was no evidence that the repairs  completed previously had 
failed and that, as the clutch was a wear  and tear item and had failed at 125,000 miles, it 
was unable to cover a replacement  under warranty. 
The car was supplied to Mr M in June 2015 and, although  he has had some  issues with it, he 
was able to drive 125,000 miles in it between then and December 2018. The car passed an 
MOT test in November 2018 when its mileage was recorded as 123,688 (and it passed 
another MOT test in November 2019 when its mileage was recorded as 145,254).
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the clutch has failed  as a result 
of the issues about  which  Mr M had previously complained. A clutch is a wear  and tear item 
on a car and I dont  consider it to be unreasonable that the clutch  on the car that was 
supplied to Mr M needs to be replaced  after 125,000 miles. I consider it to be more likely  
than not that the clutch has failed because of the use that Mr M has had from the car.
Im not persuaded that Black Horse has acted incorrectly in response to Mr Ms complaint. 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Black 
Horse to pay for the clutch to be replaced,  to replace the car thats been supplied  to Mr M, to 
pay him any of the compensation  that hes claimed  or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4382637