K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about poor customer service when he called on British  Gas Insurance  
Limited (BGI) under  his home emergency insurance policy following a burst pipe at his 
property.
background
On 3 March 2018 Mr S discovered a water  leak in a property he owned which was occupied 
by a tenant. He could  hear the sound of water  escaping from the water supply pipe under the 
kitchen floor between  the outside wall and the stop cock under the kitchen sink.
Mr S contacted BGI for assistance under his policy, and an engineer attended the next day. 
He said he would book  the job in for repair. His report confirms that the water supply pipe 
into the house needs to be replaced. Under  Existing Damage it says all cabinets  water 
damaged customer dont want water isolated.
Mr S continued to press BGI to attend and carry out the work.  He was told an engineer 
would come on 7 March 2018, but he didnt. When he complained he was told an 
appointment hadnt actually been  booked, and that a repair couldnt be booked  in until        
23 March 2018.  The manager said he should  contact BGI again  if the situation  were to 
worsen.
On 17 March 2018, Mr S contacted BGI to say the situation had indeed worsened as water 
was now leaking into the kitchen. BGI sent an engineer that day but he was unable to shut 
off the water  from the street  water tap. The water  board engineer  came  and did this later that 
afternoon. On 21 March 2019  BGIs engineer located the damaged pipework, cut it out, and 
installed new pipework.
Mr S complained to BGI. He said he had been  consistently told that engineers were coming 
and then they hadnt. If BGI had repaired the leak when he first reported  it, before it 
worsened and water  came into the kitchen, he wouldnt  have had to replace his kitchen floor 
and cabinets.  So he wanted BGI to reimburse  the cost of this.
Mr S had trouble  getting BGI to address his complaint, so he complained to us. After  he did 
so BGI said water  was already escaping and causing damage  when it was first notified. It 
didnt consider the consequential damage  to Mr Ss kitchen was covered under his policy.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He said it had 
taken 18 days from when  the leak was first reported  on 3 March  2018 until it was repaired on 
21 March 2018.  The policy  didnt say a repair would be carried out within any particular 
period of time. It said:
[BGI] will carry out any repairs or visits within a reasonable time, unless something beyond  
its control makes that impossible  in which case,  it will let you know as soon as possible 
and will give you another time when  it can visit.
In considering whether 18 days was a reasonable  time,  the investigator  said this service  
would consider all the circumstances involved. BGI said that particularly severe weather 
conditions were in place in the lead up to Mr Ss claim. As a result, BGI had a much  higher 
Ref: DRN46519082volume of emergency  call outs to attend to at that time.  Many  of those call outs were by 
vulnerable customers  and had to be prioritised  for that reason.
The investigator thought BGI should have  managed  Mr Ss expectations on the timescale for 
the repair much better than it did. But in the circumstances as they existed at the time he 
couldnt say it should reasonably have completed  the repair before the leak got worse on 
17 March 2018.
In view of this he didnt  recommend  that BGI should have to contribute to the repair  costs  for 
any damage that resulted from the leak. However  he thought it should compensate him for 
the poor service  he had experienced, including failure to manage his expectations, and 
promised visits and call backs that didnt materialise.
BGI had paid Mr S £60 as compensation for this. But the investigator thought this should be 
increased by a further £190 for the frustration and inconvenience BGI had caused Mr S.
BGI accepted the investigators recommendation.  Mr S responded to say, in summary, that:
he didnt accept the kitchen was damaged when the first engineer attended on          
3 March 2018. He didnt  accept the engineers report in this respect.  The damage 
didnt happen  until after 17 March  2018;
his tenant  didnt remember being  asked  by the engineer on 3 March 2018 if he 
wanted the water to be turned  off; 
he didnt think BGI had repaired the leak in a reasonable time. In all his 
conversations with BGI he was never told that they were  busy  with other 
emergencies; and
he still thought  BGI was responsible  for the damage to the kitchen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by the brief wording in the engineers report of 3 March 2018 that the 
damage to the kitchen  floor and cupboards which was later evident  had already  occurred 
then. After that date the call records show  that Mr S was still telling BGI he couldnt  see 
water in his kitchen  he could  only hear water gushing under his kitchen floor
There is only one photo of the inside  of one kitchen cupboard  the cupboard under the sink 
 attached to that report. The fact that it shows some evidence  of past water damage isnt 
surprising, and cant be taken as evidence of the whole kitchen being  flooded by then.
However I think the record in the report of an offer being made  to turn off the water  supply to 
the property, and this being turned down by the tenant, is more  likely than not to be correct,  
although the tenant says they dont now remember this.
Like the investigator, I dont think that the time it took BGI to effect the repair was 
unreasonable in the particular weather circumstances which occurred at the time. When    
Mr S spoke to BGIs manager on 8 March 2018, he warned Mr S that a repair couldnt be 
booked in until 23 March  2018. But he said if the situation were to worsen  he should contact 
BGI again.  
Ref: DRN46519083At that stage, which I think is likely to have  been  before the escaping  water entered  the 
kitchen, Mr S could have tried to get another engineer to attend  before 23 March  2018. Also,  
as he was worried about the situation becoming  worse, he could have arranged for the water  
supply to the property to be shut off. However  he decided to leave the water  running and 
wait till BGI could carry out the repair.
Unfortunately, the situation worsened on 17 March  2018, and as a result his kitchen was 
damaged. However  I dont think I can reasonably  hold BGI responsible  for this.
For the reasons  the investigator set out, I do think BGI should pay Mr S a further £190, in 
addition to the £60 it has already paid him, as compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience its poor handling of his claim has caused him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr S a further £190, in addition to the £60 it has already paid him, as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  its poor handling of his claim  has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651908