K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003  in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mrs L applied  for the credit card. It 
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because:
 I cant know what was discussed in the meeting  or how the PPI was presented  to 
Mrs L. And Halifax  no longer has a copy of her credit agreement  but thats not 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It has provided a sample of the form 
that was in use at the time.  Ive found no reason to think  this wasnt  the form Mrs L 
would have seen  and signed. On this you had to tick a box to select  PPI and there was 
nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led her to believe  she had to 
select it. So, overall, I think  its most  likely Halifax made Mrs L aware the PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it. 
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs L says she was entitled 
to six months full pay and six months  half pay from her employer if she was sick, but 
the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months.  It also gave her 
up to 12 months  redundancy cover so she could have protected any lump sum 
redundancy payment giving her increased  financial stability  at a difficult  time.  She also 
said relatives would have helped, but thats not suitable  alternative protection. Its not 
guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change. So, overall, I think  PPI wouldve 
been useful to Mrs L if she lost her job or was sick and unable to work.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs L chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs L wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.  On 
balance I think  she would  still have  taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs L has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
Ref: DRN43972992my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4397299