K821x#15complaint
Mr M says CashEuroNet UK LLC (CEN),  trading  as QuickQuid (QQ) and PoundstoPocket  
(PtP), lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr M had six loans  with CEN.  The first five were instalment loans repayable  in monthly 
instalments. The sixth loan was a payday loan, repayable  in three  payments.  Ive set out 
some of the information  CEN provided about  the loans in the table below.
Loan no. 
(brand)Amount Start date End date Payment  schedule
1 (PtP) £450 30/03/2017 17/04/2017 7 months x £113
2 (PtP) £500 27/04/2017 28/06/2017 12 months  x £79
3 (PtP) £200 14/07/2017 02/08/2017 12 months  x £30
4 (PtP) £1,250 03/08/2017 21/09/2017 12 months x £193
5 (PtP) £550 21/11/2017 29/11/2017 11 months  x £92
6 (QQ) £400 30/11/2017 04/12/2017£70.40 on 22 Dec 2017
£102.40  on 23 Jan 2018
£499.20  on 23 Feb 2018
An adjudicator has considered this complaint already and recommended  it be upheld in part. 
She thought  CEN was wrong  to approve loans 4-6 (an error in the adjudication refers to 
redress for loan 3 too, but this has since been clarified with Mr Ms representatives). 
CEN didnt  agree it was wrong  to lend, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.  As 
theres been no ongoing dispute about loans  1-3, Ill only be considering the complaint about 
loans 4-6.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
In its original submissions to this service,  CEN  said that it could  not agree that it was 
irresponsible in lending  to Mr M because:
since 1st March 2015, [CEN] implemented [an] affordability review, which involved 
collecting and validating  income and expense details from customers, in line with the 
[Financial Conduct  Authority] FCA Handbook. As such, we believe Mr [M]s loans issued 
post 2015 were  affordable.
In response to the adjudication, it added:
we regret to inform you that we cannot  agree to your recommendations I have now 
attached the entire lending process including all the checks that we perform prior to 
lending
Ref: DRN40544312This Service has responded to CEN  on this generic argument directly and through  earlier  
final decisions. So I am not going  to address this point here, though I have  considered it 
alongside everything else in making  my decision.
I would remind CEN  at this point  of the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly  (my emphasis) by businesses.  In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Ms complaint and what both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr M borrowed the loans in question.  Bearing  in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect CEN  to be conversant with these  through previous ombudsman  decisions, 
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Our adjudicator thought that CENs checks were not proportionate for loans 4-6. She said 
CEN ought to have  realised that although Mr M had been taking out loans with terms of 7-12 
months, hed been repaying them much more quickly than that  sometimes in less than a 
month. And so she thought that proportionate checks  for loans 4 and 5 ought to have  taken 
that into account. 
Loan 6 was a three-month  payday loan rather than an instalment loan. But our adjudicator  
noted this was his sixth loan in eight months  and so CEN ought to have realised  Mr M may 
have been dependent  on borrowing, which  would  likely not be a sustainable situation.
Ive reviewed these loans and agree with the adjudicator. Loan 1 had a term of seven 
months but was repaid after only 17 days. Loan  2 had a term of one year, but was repaid 
Ref: DRN40544313after 62 days. Loan 3 ran for just 19 days rather than a year. So it was likely subsequent 
loans would follow this pattern (and they did).
CEN says Mr M showed no signs of dependency or financial difficulty. But despite  ending his 
loans early (which could in some  circumstances show an improving financial situation) Mr M 
borrowed again from CEN very soon after repaying  his loans. I think  CEN ought  to have 
considered that Mr M may not have been repaying his loans sustainably,  given the pattern of 
borrowing.
Loan 4 was the fourth loan Mr M had applied for in as many months and was by far the 
largest  slightly exceeding  the sum of the first three  loans and equivalent  to about what 
CEN had recorded  as Mr Ms net monthly  income.  There was a gap of just a day in between  
loans 3 and 4. There was also a gap of only a day between loans 5 and 6.
In the circumstances, I agree that it wouldve been proportionate for CEN  to ask Mr M for 
some form of proof of income and expenditure for loan 4  and for loans 5 and 6 too. Loans  
4 and 5 continued the pattern  of Mr M repaying the loans much earlier than scheduled,  
similarly to a payday rather  than an instalment  loan and there  were  little-to-no  gaps between  
the loans. CEN didnt  undertake checks like this, so in the absence of any other information, 
Ive considered Mr Ms bank statements.
Looking at the evidence I have of Mr Ms income  and expenditure at the time of loans 4-6, 
I can see that he was typically being  paid about  what he declared  around £1,300 a month.
But I can also see he was spending most, if not all, of his monthly  income during this period 
of time on on-line betting sites. In my experience,  given the pattern of borrowing (in 
particular, the very early  repayment and quick re-borrowing of instalment loans) this isnt an 
unusual thing to see. So I think CEN couldve established, from proportionate  checks,  that 
Mr M was spending more than was sustainable for him each month. And given the level of 
Mr Ms monthly expenditure, I dont think CEN couldve concluded loans  4-6 were 
sustainably affordable for him  and so it wouldnt have approved them.
Ive also noted  that our adjudicator set out in detail  why she thought the loans were  also 
likely to be unaffordable (assuming Mr M would repay them early) based either on what  CEN 
couldve also established from proportionate  checks  or in the case of loans  4 and 5, on the 
basis of the information it actually obtained.  CEN  didnt  comment on these figures.  And 
I agree  with our adjudicator on these points.
In summary,  I think proportionate checks wouldve  established that loans 4-6 were not 
sustainably affordable for Mr M, as his expenditure at the time meant  he was unlikely to be 
able to repay them from his income.  So Im upholding his complaint about  these  loans.
Ref: DRN40544314putting things right
CEN must:
refund  the interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 4-6
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Mr M paid then (if he did) 
until the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  about  loans 4-6 from Mr Ms credit  history
HM Revenue & Customs requires  CEN  to take off tax from this interest.  CEN  must  give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC must put things right by taking  the steps 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4054431