K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that they were mis-sold a regular  premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs C applied for a mortgage with Santander. At the same time they took out 
a PPI policy in Mr Cs sole name to protect  their repayments if Mr C lost his job or was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he thought the paperwork  
suggested the policy was optional and thought  it provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs C disagree.  They say they were led to believe they had to take PPI to secure  the 
mortgage and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. Santander  had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say this wasnt done but havent given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  the documents 
from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  signed  by Mr and Mrs C and can see in the 
insurance section  they were given three  different options in relation  to PPI and asked to 
confirm what their decision  was. I can see that a tick has been  placed next to the option I 
would like Mortgage PaymentCover and have completed the application form. The other 
two options were to not take PPI or to receive  further information on it.
I think from the way PPI was presented here it makes it clear PPI was optional. And if Mr 
and Mrs C didnt want PPI they couldve ticked next to the option  not to take it. And I think its 
clear from the mortgage application to take PPI a separate application form needed to be 
completed. So I think Mr and Mrs C had PPI because they completed an application form 
and because they wanted the cover.
The PPI policy was a standalone policy with a separate direct debit mandate from the 
mortgage. So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve also understood that it was separate from the 
mortgage. 
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs C could 
Ref: DRN43652242make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C for the following  reasons:
He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings they could use to make  their repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings and covered their mortgage  
payments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was too sick to work or lost his job. And 
the fact that the policy only covered Mr C and he was the main income earner suggests 
to me that their other means of paying their mortgage  if Mr C couldnt work was 
considered not to be enough.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs C in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve been interested  in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs C at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs C information in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that the costs  of PPI were  clear in the 
schedule of cover that was sent out but I dont know if Santander gave  all the information  as 
it shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what Mr 
and Mrs C have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken 
out the PPI policy  if theyd  been  given all the proper  information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs C arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4365224