K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Nationwide Building Society has refused to pay them a £100  
account switch  incentive.
background
Mr and Mrs T say they are long standing  Nationwide account holders and received a letter  
from Nationwide offering them a £100  switch incentive if they transferred their account  to it. 
Mr T says he made the application but Nationwide  transferred his account into an existing 
Nationwide account  which was not his intention as he wanted a new account. He says in any 
event Nationwide  refused to pay the incentive  as he didnt have two active  direct debits 
when the account was transferred. Mr T says that information was not clear  in Nationwides  
letter and says he didnt  have two active direct debits on his old account. He says he did 
then set up the direct debits and questions why he would transfer a large amount of money 
into his Nationwide  account if he didnt think Nationwide would accept his eligibility for the 
incentive. Mr and Mrs T would like the incentive  paid an apology and compensation.
Nationwide says Mr and Mrs T didnt meet the incentive switch  criteria as there were not two 
direct debits in place at the time of transfer. It says the incentive terms and conditions  are 
clear on this point and so its not made  a mistake.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint  to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. The 
adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs T didnt meet the eligibility for the incentive as there  were  not 
any direct  debits in place at the time of the transfer.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept that view and said the switch was to a new account but 
Nationwide didnt open one. They say that shows Nationwide made a mistake.  They  say 
they were told the incentive was only available if a new account was opened and question  
why Nationwide  didnt  tell them there  were  no direct debits in place.
The adjudicator looked again  at the complaint and considered  further information from 
Nationwide which suggested  Mr T didnt receive the incentive offer letter. He came  to the 
same overall view and thought it was Mr T that had made the application  online and wouldnt 
have expected Nationwide to point  out the lack of direct debits.
Mr and Mrs T dont  accept  that view and maintain they should  receive  an apology and 
compensation as well as the incentive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs T will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked  at the account switch incentive letter and the terms and conditions.  And Im 
satisfied that both of those clearly and prominently say that in order to be eligible for the 
£100 incentive there has to be two direct debits  in place at the time of the transfer. So Im 
satisfied that Nationwide hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing  to pay the 
Ref: DRN44800652incentive in circumstances where  all parties agree there wasnt any direct debits in place  at 
the time of transfer.
Im also satisfied that information about  the criteria  was repeated  in the offer letter and I have 
already said that I think it was clear and not confusing. So I dont think  it matters which party  
received the letter and which party was eligible  for the incentive as for the reasons I have 
explained  the application  that was made by Mr T was not eligible due to the lack of direct  
debits. It may have been the case that even if Mr T had eligible direct  debits then he may not 
have received the incentive if he hadnt been directly written  to himself by Nationwide. But I 
dont need to consider that for the reasons  I have  set out.
I also dont think it matters  that the switch went to Mr Ts existing account  which  later 
became a joint account. I think  it was Mr T that made the application  online  and I dont think  
it mattered if a new or existing account was used as Mr T wasnt  eligible for the incentive. I 
appreciate that Mr T says he should be entitled  to compensation for this. But I think it was 
Mr T that made the switch application and I dont think that even if an existing account was 
used that justifies  compensation.
I also appreciate that Mr T says that Nationwide should have told him about the lack of direct  
debits. I am sorry to disagree  with Mr T but I think it was his responsibility  to check  if he was 
eligible for the incentive and ought  to have  been aware if he had direct debits set up on his 
old account. I have  made  clear that I am satisfied the information about  that was clearly 
displayed throughout the letter Mr T refers to from Nationwide about  the incentive.
Overall Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant fairly 
order it to pay Mr and Mrs T the incentive  or compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4480065