K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited  unfairly refused to pay her claim under 
her travel insurance policy when she had to cut short her holiday due to the illness of her 
husband who was travelling with her.
background
Ms S was on a cruise with her husband when he fell ill. He was brought to a hospital on land 
and eventually they went back to the UK cutting  their cruise short.  Ms Ss husband had his 
own policy and he made a successful claim. 
Ms Ss policy is linked to her credit card, so it doesnt renew  each year, merely subsists  for 
so long as Ms S keeps the credit card.
Ms S then made her claim  under this policy. Aviva  said it wasnt  covered as it related to a 
pre-existing medical condition of her husbands.  Ms S had declared this previously in 2016.  
The insurer  then (as Aviva only took over this policy in 2017) said this condition  was then 
excluded from her policy. It was this that then prompted Mrs Ss husband  to get his own 
policy, as he believed  as Ms S did, that he was removed from this policy.
Aviva said it should have told Ms S when she first called  it that her claim wasnt  covered. As 
it didnt, it paid her £75.00  compensation.
Ms S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator  was of the view 
that Ms S hadnt been made aware  how this exclusion would work  on her policy  and that in 
fact her husband remained insured on it. She thought  Aviva  should therefore pay Ms Ss 
claim. Aviva disagreed  so Ms Ss complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 June and I said the following:
Ms Ss policy proves cover for her if she or her partner or close relative  or travelling  
companion falls ill and her trip needs  to be curtailed. Automatic cover  is given to Ms 
Ss partner  under this policy too. But Ms Ss husband made no claim under this policy  
as he and Ms S assumed  given his medical history  and his pre-existing medical 
condition he had no coherent cover  under this policy. So I consider Aviva cant  rely 
on the fact there was any cover for Ms Ss husband.  
Ms Ss claim is solely about the fact her husbands ill health caused  her to curtail  her 
holiday and caused  her losses not covered by her husbands successful claim under 
his own policy insured elsewhere.
Unlike other travel policies, this policy doesnt  have a definitive clause that no claim is 
covered for its policyholder if that policyholder knew the person  causing the claim 
(here it was Ms Ss husbands  medical  issues, which caused  her to curtail  her 
holiday) had a medical condition  likely to give rise to a claim.
Instead, Avivas policy talks of covered conditions as in those listed.  However the 
policy is only concerned  about the policyholders  state of health  (and those 
automatically covered  by it), as regards whether  any condition  of the policyholder  
Ref: DRN44795882falls in or out of those covered conditions. The policy wording fails discuss  the 
health position of a travelling companion or other relative not covered by this policy.
Its clear here, when Ms Ss husbands  medical  condition came to light,  the previous 
underwriters of this policy  rightly said it wasnt a covered condition. Given  that, it was 
sensible that Ms Ss husband sought and paid for cover elsewhere. Ms S also 
believed her husband wasnt covered by this policy, as effectively his medical 
condition excluded him from cover.
However, Ms S wasnt categorically told this and I think she ought to have been. And 
as Aviva took over this policy  from another insurer, its of course now responsible for 
this as thats fair and reasonable from Ms Ss point of view.
In its final response letter  to Ms S, it labours under the fact that Ms Ss husband was 
a covered person as hes automatically  covered  as Ms Ss partner. But it failed  to 
acknowledge he was obviously not covered, given he made no claim and indeed  had 
found cover  for himself elsewhere.  And it failed to acknowledge what  had occurred 
back in 2016 when Ms S was effectively told her husband wasnt  covered  under this 
policy given his medical condition. Further, since its policy wording  doesnt  have the 
more usual clause  where no cover  is offered  for known health conditions  of travelling 
companions and relatives not covered by this policy, I think  it has no basis to 
consider the health issue of her partner  for the purposes of this claim.
This is because I consider  it to be inherently unfair and unreasonable  for Aviva to rely 
on its automatic cover clause in the particular circumstances of this complaint,  in 
order to refuse to pay Ms Ss claim. This is because  the policy  isnt clear in these  
circumstances, which means it must  be construed in Ms Ss favour.  
Ms S satisfies the curtailment section, which says you will be covered if your 
travelling companion has to cancel  the trip or come  home early  for one of the listed  
reasons, one of which is falls ill. The whats not covered section refers to anything 
in the general  exclusions  and the your health  section.  Consequently, I dont think  Ms 
S would have realised  following the events of 2016, where her husbands medical 
condition was confirmed  as not covered, that she would never have any cover for 
cancellation or curtailment due to her husbands  health.  I think  if she had known that, 
she would  have cancelled  this policy and sought cover elsewhere.
Therefore, I think Aviva  hasnt provided clear information to Ms S bearing in mind her 
particular circumstances.  And this failure  prejudiced her, given it refused to pay her 
claim.
Consequently, I consider  Aviva should now pay Ms Ss claim subject to the remaining 
policy terms and conditions namely  the excess amount. It should also add interest  of 
8% simple  per year from the date of the claim to the date it pays  her.
Im aware Aviva noted it should  have told Ms S her claim wasnt  valid from the start. 
And that because it didnt,  it paid her £75 compensation. But I dont consider thats 
adequate compensation  for the distress and upset  Aviva caused  her. So I consider it 
should also pay a further £100  compensation. 
Ms S agreed with my provisional  decision. Aviva  didnt. It continued to argue that Ms Ss 
husband was covered  under this policy because it extended cover  to her partner. It agreed 
Ref: DRN44795883that its policy doesnt have the more usual clause of not providing  cover for relatives known 
medical conditions  but insists  the cover is properly  explained in covered conditions  section. 
It also said its not responsible for whatever the previous  underwriter said or explained to Ms 
S.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Ms S just wasnt aware that the cancellation cover  she had for herself 
under this policy was so restricted given her husbands medical condition. Even if that wasnt 
Avivas direct responsibility, given this all happened  with the previous underwriter, the fact 
remains that Ms S wasnt aware. Further had she been aware  she would have no doubt 
cancelled this policy and got appropriate  cover elsewhere. 
Aviva also accepts its policy doesnt  have the usual exclusion about travelling companions 
medical conditions.  So I remain of the view that Ms S on reading Avivas policy wouldnt 
have realised she would be covered  for her losses if she had to come home early due to her 
husbands medical condition.
Therefore I continue to believe in the very particular circumstances of this complaint, the fair 
outcome for Ms S is that Aviva should  pay her claim, even  if it outside  the strict policy terms.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms Ss claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy  namely 
the excess;
Add interest of 8% simply per year from the date of the claim to the date it pays  her*;
Pay Ms S a further £100 compensation for the distress and trouble it put her to.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4479588