K820x#14complaint
Ms T and Mr T say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1993 Ms T bought  PPI to protect  her existing mortgage repayments. Neither party  can 
confirm how or where the sale took place.  The policy gave her protection  against  accident, 
sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it. 
Mr T was added on to the policy in 1994, shortly after he was added to the mortgage  
account. Neither party can confirm how or where this policy amend took place.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Halifax cant  provide a 
copy of the policy document  so Ive relied on one from the nearest available date.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Ms T that the PPI was optional,  and she had to agree to 
take it out. Ms T says she wasnt aware  she had PPI. I cant  know  what  was discussed 
during the sale. Ms T hasnt been  able to give much detail, and Halifax  doesnt have any 
of her paperwork  from the sale, but thats not surprising  given how long ago it was. I 
have thought carefully about Ms Ts comments,  but I have  to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  uphold the complaint  on this point. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms T, and I think it seems to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. She was entitled  to at least  
six months sick pay and six months  half pay but the PPI would have  paid out in 
addition to her work  benefits and for up to 12 months  for all accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims.  Ms T says she had shares through an employee scheme but 
these arent suitable alternative  protection  the value  can vary and money may not be 
available when needed.  Ms T was borrowing quite  a large sum over a long period, 
secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments could have 
been serious for her. Overall,  I think the PPI would have been  useful if Ms T was sick, 
had an accident  or lost her job. 
Ref: DRN49995772Its possible  Halifax didnt give Ms T all the information she needed before she decided  
to buy PPI. I dont  know when the cost was made clear  but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And she doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations (such  as those  affecting people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions  or on certain types of employment  contract). Overall, I dont think 
better information wouldve changed  her decision  to take out PPI.
There is very little information  available about the policy  amend when Mr T was added to the 
cover, but I have  seen no evidence of any bank  error relating to the change.
It follows I dont think Ms T and Mr T have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4999577