K821x#15complaint
The complainant, C, is an amateur sports club. At the time of the disputed events, C was an 
unincorporated not-for-profit club run by volunteer  committee members. The clubs 
successor-in-title is now a company limited  by guarantee  though  still not-for-profit and run 
by volunteers rather than employees. 
C complains that HSBC UK Bank  plc failed to protect it adequately or at all from the risk of 
fraud and scams, as a result of which C suffered  financial loss at the hands  of scammers 
totalling £41,100. With authority from its current directors, C is represented here by Miss M, 
who was club chair  at the time of the scam  in question. 
HSBC denied that it was liable for the loss, submitting that the scammed  payments were  
authorised by or on behalf of Cs account-signatories using its legitimate  security credentials 
 so C is deemed liable for the loss under the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 (in force 
at the time, i.e. June and July 2017). It did, however, make  a goodwill payment to C of £100.
background
On 27 November 2020, I issued a provisional  decision partly upholding this complaint and 
awarding compensation of about £12,000  plus interest. I attach a copy  of that provisional 
decision below  both for background information  and to supplement my reasons in this 
final decision. I would ask the parties  to re-read  the provisional decision before proceeding 
further. 
HSBC accepted my provisional decision.  
C, however, has made further submissions because it disagrees  with my conclusions on 
contributory negligence and mitigation of loss. In short, it thinks  that a fairer  resolution of the 
complaint would be for HSBC to refund five of the six scammed payments  (rather than the 
four I suggested); and only to deduct 15% for contributory negligence (rather  than the 50% I 
suggested). In other words, that would result in a compensation  award  of £29,155 (plus  
interest but less the sum recovered from the receiving  bank).  I have carefully read Cs 
arguments in full. They are, in brief summary, as follows:
The original investigator  was correct to recommend reimbursement of five payments. 
HSBC should  have been put on notice of uncharacteristic activity on the account  by the 
second scam payment (on 4 July 2017 for £8,800), which  was shortly  after the first one 
 and if HSBC had contacted C at that time, no further scam payments  would  have 
been made.
The legitimate  payment  on 17 March 2017  of £8,900 was itself uncharacteristic and there 
was no reason for HSBC not to challenge  a further  two uncharacteristically large  
payments in short succession  three to four months later, which represented  a significant 
proportion of the account funds.  By permitting  these  payments,  HSBC acted in breach of 
its duty of care to its customer, C. 
C reluctantly accepts vicarious  liability for the negligent acts of its treasurer  (S) even 
though he was acting outside  the club constitution and policies; but it was HSBCs  
breach of its common law duty of careas set out in relevant caselawwhich caused 
the loss.
Causation is the decisive factor in determining the extent of any contributory negligence; 
and in the Singularis case ([2019] UKSC 50), the Supreme  Court  did not overturn the 
Ref: DRN41950922trial judges assessment  of contributory negligence at 25%  and in that case, there  
were six directors  who did nothing to prevent the fraud perpetrated by another  director.
By contrast, Cs chair acted immediately  on becoming aware of the scam and probably 
prevented greater losses  so 15% would better reflect the facts of this complaint 
relative to Singularis . 
The provisional decision fails to take enough account of a number of points of law and 
fact in relation  to mitigation of loss:
C, in its duty to mitigate loss, only had to act reasonably, which depends on 
individual circumstances,  and take steps  in the ordinary course  of business, not 
engage in commercially  risky conduct.
The standard of reasonableness is not high in this context and takes account of, 
for example:
i.A claimants resources;
ii.That a claimant  need not risk its money, reputation, property or rights in 
order to mitigate;
iii.The risk of starting uncertain  litigation against a third party  where the 
prospects of success or recovery are unclear;
iv.The fact that less is expected of a claimant acting in the heat of a crisis. 
Bearing in mind those  factors,  Cs decision not to pursue legal action  against  S 
and/or his company was wholly justified and reasonable in the circumstances 
given the costs of doing  so and the risk to volunteer members of the committee. 
Legal action  would  have been a very considerable risk for C (e.g. adverse costs  
plus its own costs and disbursements);  and the prospects of significant recovery  
were thought to be slim, e.g. S had disappeared and was non-responsive; his 
company website had disappeared; there was no knowledge  of assets  available 
to meet  damages  and costs; he was a foreign national able to leave the 
jurisdiction; Companies House showed  his company  to have dormant accounts 
and just £100 reserves; and S had previously been involved in a number of 
dissolved companies.
The money generated by C through a lot of fundraisingincluding raised 
membership fees,  loans and donations (for which  contemporaneous  
documentary evidence has been  provided)was needed to ensure the 
continuance of the club and its activities, not to pursue  speculative  litigation. C 
was acting reasonably and in the best interests  of its members. 
The legal letters sent to S and/or his company  on behalf  of C were prepared  by 
its legal  advisers on a pro bono basis  but that is as far as they and other  law 
firms were prepared to go at the time. And given the uncertain prospects of 
success or recovery (see above), it was unlikely that third parties would agree to 
fund via some of the means I suggested in the provisional decision (e.g. after-the-
event insurance or no-win-no-fee arrangements). Indeed, HSBC also made no 
offer to help bring a claim.
C could not take out a loan to fund litigation as it was unincorporated  at the time 
and that would expose individuals  on the committee, who are volunteers with 
family and financial  commitments.
S told C that neither he nor his company  held professional indemnity insurance  
when it enquired about this at the time of the fraud  so there  was no prospect of 
a successful third-party insurance claim under the relevant legislation; and such 
insurance probably would not cover his recreational activities rather than 
professional practice.
Contrary to paragraphs  15 to 19 of my provisional decision,  C in fact took a 
number of measures  to mitigate its loss after the fraud. There  was no singular 
approach (i.e. to the Financial Ombudsman Service) and C carried  out a number 
Ref: DRN41950923of activitieswhich I accept, so need not rehearse here in detailaimed at 
mitigating its loss and restoring funds to the club account, e.g. interest-free loans 
from members,  increased membership fees, negotiations with sports  venues, 
numerous fundraisers, economies, recruitment  drives, etc. The club also reported 
the matter to Action Fraud (i.e. the police)  and sought help from the governing 
body for this sport. 
C also refers to a query  I emailed  about  its future plans prior to issuing  the provisional 
decision. But that question and answer  did not form part of my reasoning  in the 
provisional decision, so I do not need  to address  that here.  
C also thinks there were some minor factual errors in the provisional decision, which it 
thinks may be misleading and suggests  committee members failed to exercise  care. 
However, these are not material  to the outcome and are more a matter  of syntax or 
misinterpretation. For the avoidance of doubt,  as I make clear  below, there  is no 
suggestion of any lack of care or attention by Miss M or any other members of the 
committee save for S and/or his company, to whom the account  was entrusted. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments in the light of Cs further  
submissions, as briefly  summarised above, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld   
but that compensation should  be reduced  to take account of Cs own acts or omissions. My 
reasons are set out in the provisional decision and as follows:
1.It is accepted by both parties that this scam  involves authorised  push payments on 
behalf of C for the purpose of the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009, which applied at 
all material  times. The payments were made by or on behalf of a signatory of the 
relevant bank accountan  employee of Ss company (which was looking after the club 
accounts)using the proper security credentials. It is accepted that the employee was 
duped into making six scam payments as a result of emails sent by an unknown  
scammer that appeared to come  from the club chair (Miss M) requesting the discharge of 
invoices from supposed suppliers. The details  of those payments  are set out in 
paragraph 1 of my provisional decision  and totalled £41,100. When  the scam was 
uncovered in late July 2017, HSBC and/or the receiving bank only managed  to recover 
£575.66, leaving C with a loss of £40,524.34.
2.It is also effectively accepted by both parties that, as a matter  of good industry practice at 
the time,  HSBC could  and should  have  done  more to protect Cs account and prevented 
the loss. HSBC has therefore  agreed  to pay the redress  suggested  in my provisional 
decision in the interests of all parties and to avoid any further  inconvenience , albeit it 
does not agree that Cs actions did not amount to gross negligence.  
3.Accordingly, as liability is no longer  materially disputed, all that remains for me to decide 
is quantum, i.e. what the appropriate measure  of compensation should be. HSBC is 
content with the amount proposed in my provisional  decision;  but C thinks  it would be fair 
and reasonable to award more  as set out in the background above. C accepts a 
degree of contributory negligence on the part of its former treasurer, S, but considers 
that I have deducted  too much for this; and thinks it did all that it reasonably  could in the 
circumstances to mitigate loss without  unduly  risking or diverting its limited resources on 
litigation with poor prospects  of success or recovery. 
Ref: DRN419509244.If there  had been no legitimate payment in March 2017 a payment which  was broadly 
comparable in size to the initial  scammed payments in June/July 2017then I might  
have accepted Cs contention  that the first or second scam payments ought  reasonably  
to have alerted  HSBC,  and prompted some  sort of intervention,  on the basis of unusual  
or uncharacteristic  activity for this customer and account. I agree with C that the March 
payment of £8,900 was itself uncharacteristic  and represented a significant  proportion of 
the available  account balance. It is arguable that HSBC  should have queried that too for 
the same  reasons  set out previously (i.e. the need to guard against transactions  that look 
suspicious and may be an indicator of fraudulent activity,  money  laundering, etc). 
5.However, the key point is that C did not query  that transaction  with the bank in the 
following three or four months, because it was obviously not illegitimate. Therefore, this 
gave the later fraudulent transactions a semblance of legitimacy. In other words, I am 
satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC not to suspect  fraud just on the basis of a 
couple of new payments,  even in short succession, that were of a similar size to one that 
had successfully gone through without demur within the previous six months. I am not 
persuaded that the first two scam  payments£6,800 on 28 June  2017  and £8,800  on 
4 July 2017would have appeared so unusual or uncharacteristic to HSBC, given the 
accounts recent history, such as to warrant intervention. 
6.Further, if HSBC had intervened back in March  2017, C would simply have confirmed the 
payment as genuine and HSBC would have been  obliged to pay it under the 2009 
Regulations. So, acting more carefully  in March would, in my view,  merely have 
reassured HSBC  that C did make  payments  of this size from time to time  and so 
make intervention in June/July less likely, not more likely. I remain  of the view that it was 
fair and reasonable for HSBC not to intervene on 28 June and 4 July 2017.  I am not 
persuaded these  first two payments would in themselves  have given rise to reasonable 
suspicions that fraudulent activity was taking place. They  looked  like, and were, 
authorised by C and/or its agents  using  the proper security credentials. 
7.But as I concluded  in the provisional decision,  by the time of the third scam payment
£7,200 on 5 July 2017, just one day after the second payment I consider that alarm 
bells should have  been metaphorically ringing in HSBCs offices (and in Ss  see 
below). This is because, by that stage, a very clear  and suspicious pattern was 
emerging: a quick  succession of larger-than-usual payments all to new payees which 
were gradually depleting  the account.  By 5 July 2017, the account  was about to be down 
by £22,800 (once that payment went through),  a significant proportion of its balance at 
the time.  In the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable  that HSBC  takes  
responsibility for the losses  that accrued as a result of payments 3 to 6 between the 5th 
and 17th of July 2017:
3) 05 Jul 2017: to Laird plc via secure  key device £7,200.00
4) 07 Jul 2017: to Hanson Ltd via secure key device £8,500.00
5) 11 Jul 2017: to Kingfisher plc via secure key device £5,800.00
6) 17 Jul 2017: to Kingfisher plc via secure key device £4,000.00
TOTAL: £25,500.00
8.I agree  with C that causation is a critical determinative factor in this (and every)  fraud  
case. It is not enough that a bank  failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or 
omissions must be the immediate and effective cause of losses of a type that were 
reasonably foreseeable at the time of the breach. I have already accepted in the 
provisional decision that the dominant cause of the loss here was HSBCs  failure  to act 
Ref: DRN41950925from the third payment  onwards.  If there  had been no blameworthiness  on the part of S 
and/or his company, acting as servants  or agents of C, then I would have asked HSBC 
to refund the full £25,500. But contributory negligence by a complainant  can legitimately 
reduce compensation, as the cited case of Singularis shows, under the Law Reform  
(Contributory Negligence)  Act 1945. So, taking all circumstances  into account, there will 
be some  situations where it is fair to reduce the award.  
9.C points to the 25% reduction for contributory  negligence in the Singularis judgment  and 
in deciding what is fair and reasonable I have  taken that into account.  But I am also 
mindful that when  approaching contributory  negligence a court will also consider each 
case on its individual circumstances and merits. There  will always  be points  of similarity 
or points  of distinction between cases. There is no precise formula for reductions  on the 
basis of contributory  negligence, which will be highly dependent on the facts of each  
individual complaint, so adjudicating on such matters is not an exact science. I have 
taken the courts approach into account  when  deciding  what  is fair in all the 
circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, I still feel that S and/or his employee were 
to some extent to blame for the losses such that it rendered Cwhich  was vicariously  
liable for their acts or omissions at least equally responsible for the damage suffered. C 
itself classed Ss conduct as grossly negligent. Indeed, the club committee  indicated in 
AGM minutes (14 August 2017) that the scam  emails/invoices were obvious  fakes  which 
ought reasonably  to have been  identified as such; and that the Clubs own payment 
processes were not followed (my emphasis):   
This was a straightforward scam that would  have been evident when  the recipient of the 
emails clicked  on the display name and saw the email had not originated from the Chair.
Shortly afterwards, the Treasurers employee  forwarded the Chair a number of emails 
showing payment requests purporting  to come  from the Chair email address. The Chair  
immediately informed the Treasurer  that those emails  had not been  sent by her and 
they were very obviously fake
The Treasurer  also acknowledged that the payments had all been by his employee made  
without checking with the Chair first why such  payments needed to be made without an 
invoice or explanation as to what  the payments  were for
10.I am mindful it is arguable that this straightforward scam could not have succeeded at 
all if S, acting  for and on behalf of C, had not delegated his responsibilities  to a junior 
employee; had properly monitored  the account;  and had himself dealt with emails that 
were very obviously fake. C was not contracting with HSBC as a consumer but as a 
micro-enterprise with obligations of trust to its members. C can therefore reasonably be 
expected to have handled its affairs professionally and in accordance with its published 
payment protocols and club constitution (see the provisional  decision). However,  
because of the significant imbalance between the knowledge and expertise of a large  
international bank and a small amateur sports club, especially in relation  to fraud and 
scams, I have considered  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This was 
a finely-balanced case  but I am satisfied that a 50% reduction in compensation is fair 
and reasonable to reflect the significant contribution  which  S and/or his company played 
in causing the loss. I do not dismiss or ignore in any way the damage this scam did to 
the club  but the question is whether C was itself blameworthy, and I am satisfied that 
it was for the reasons  I have already  explained. It would not be fair or reasonable to 
make the bank pay 100% compensation when C itself places so much blame on its 
former treasurer for delegating his responsibilities without authority; for failing to spot 
obvious fake emails;  and for allowing  payments without  proper invoices. 
Ref: DRN4195092611.On reflection, I accept Cs submissions about  mitigation of loss. I still think the broad 
legal position  is as I set out in the provisional decision: namely, that the victim of 
wrongdoing has a reasonable responsibility to mitigate loss. For completeness, I should 
clarify that I was never suggesting the clubs committee and members  had not made 
strenuous efforts to replace the lost funds through the sorts of activities set out in its 
response to the provisional decision (and supporting evidence). I was merely concerned  
about the apparent ease with which the proposed  litigation against S was dropped  even 
though both the club and its (pro bono) solicitors  then seemed sure they had a very good 
case against him in negligence. But I am now satisfied  by Cs explanation that the risks 
and costs of litigation  were probably outweighed  by the actual prospects of a successful 
recovery, particularly as individual  members would have  been  personally exposed due to 
the then unincorporated status  of the club. 
12.Notwithstanding the above, I am satisfied the outcome is no different just because  I have  
accepted Cs point on mitigation of loss. The reduction I set out in my provisional 
decision was on the basis that, as a result of S and/or his companys actions, C was to 
some extent  also to blame for the losses. For the reasons set out above, Cs 
blameworthiness, as a result of S and/or his companys actions at the time of the 
payments, was so significant that, in my view, it would not be fair or reasonable to fix 
HSBC with 100% responsibility for the loss suffered by C. From Cs point of 
responsibility, I make it clear that I think Miss M, the committee  and the members were 
seriously let down by S  and by S alone. I can understand  how disappointing  it is for 
them to have to forgo  so much compensation because of Ss role in this. But I cannot 
ignore the fact that, with ostensible authority,  he was acting for and on behalf of the club 
with regard to its finances; and that means the clubi.e.  the unincorporated  association 
rather than any individual  volunteers must  bear vicarious  liability for the contributory 
negligence of S and/or his employee. 
13.I therefore wish to clarify a couple of comments in my provisional decision, as requested  
by C. When, in paragraph 15 of the provisional decision, I referred to the carelessness of 
those acting for and on behalf  of C, I simply meant S and/or his employee; I was not 
referring to any other committee members.  Similarly, in paragraph 2 of the provisional 
decision, I was not implying that Miss M would not have realised immediately what was 
happening if she had been informed at the time, as she would obviously have known that 
she had not sent the emails in question. I was merely  summarising (in brief)  that it was 
not until after 17 July 2017 that Miss M actually  found out about the scam when, at that 
time, S first told her about the lack of funds in the account  and she started to 
investigate. On the matter of interest on our awards, it reflects a basket of lost 
opportunities and other factors, of which borrowing rates are one we take into account.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I have decided to uphold  this 
complaint against  HSBC  Bank UK plc, but I consider  fair compensation is 50% of the amount 
lost of £25,500 (less the recovered  £575.66).  Therefore,  my award is that, within  28 days  of 
Cs acceptance of this decision, HSBC  shall pay into the account  it holds for C the following:
£12,174.34; plus
Interest on the above sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date/s of loss to the 
date of refund;  and
Ref: DRN41950927If any tax is lawfully  deductible from the interest  payment, HSBC may do this but should 
provide C with a tax-deduction certificate  upon request. 
I have made  no additional  award  for distress  or inconvenience for the reasons set out in the 
provisional decision. I am satisfied that HSBCs goodwill payment of £100 was a fair gesture.
For the avoidance of doubt, the redress should  be paid to the clubs account. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2021.  
Mark Sceeny
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN41950928copy  of provisional decision dated 27 November 2020
I have considered all the relevant information  about this complaint. Based  on what  I have  
seen so far, I am minded  to uphold the complaint   but the overall  outcome  is not the same 
as that reached  by the investigator  before me, hence a provisional decision so the parties 
have a fair chance to comment before it is finalised. 
I will consider  any further  comments and evidence that I receive  by 8 January 2021. But 
unless the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following 
lines. Final decisions are published on our website. So that individuals  cannot  be identified,  I 
will use only initials  to refer to the complainant  club and those members who are 
representing it and/or otherwise mentioned. 
complaint
The complainant, C, is an amateur sports club. At the time of the disputed events, C was an 
unincorporated not-for-profit club run by volunteer  committee members. The clubs 
successor-in-title is now a company limited  by guarantee  though  still not-for-profit and run 
by volunteers rather than employees. Owing to its small size and the limited nature of any 
economic activities, C may be regarded  as a micro-enterprise  for the purpose of our 
compulsory jurisdiction. Indeed, HSBC UK Bank plc appears to treat C as a small-business 
customer in terms of the account it provides,  which is the subject-matter of this complaint. 
C complains that HSBC failed to protect it adequately or at all from the risk of fraud  and 
scams, as a result of which C suffered financial loss at the hands of scammers  totalling 
£41,100. With authority  from its current directors, C is represented here by Miss M, who was 
club chair at the time of the scam  in question. 
HSBC denies  that it is liable  for the loss, submitting that the scammed payments were 
authorised by or on behalf of Cs account-signatories using its legitimate  security credentials 
 so C is deemed liable for the loss under the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 (in force 
at the time, i.e. June and July 2017). It did, however, make  a goodwill payment to C of £100. 
my provisional findings
Upon reading  all the evidence and arguments  submitted by both parties, I am minded to 
conclude that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances would be to uphold 
this complaint  for the reasons that follow:
1.It is common ground that the scammed payments were authorised by C for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations  2009 (the Regulations).  This is because 
they were made by or on behalf of C using the legitimate security  credentials provided by 
HSBC. These credentials were held by, amongst others, the former  club treasurer, S. He 
had given them to E, a junior employee in his company, which was looking after Cs 
accounts in return  for a fee. Unfortunately, E was duped into authorising a series  of 
payments by a person or persons unknown, who sent her emails purporting  to come  
from the then club chair, Miss M. These  emails  gave clear and unequivocal instructions 
to pay invoices from suppliers of certain  goods or services  (which  were in fact payments 
to fake accounts  with TSB, Barclays and Lloyds  controlled by the scammer). Unknown to 
S, Miss M or any other member of C, it seems  that E unwittingly made the following six 
payments to the scammer  in relatively  short succession:
 
Ref: DRN419509291)28 Jun 2017: to Howell Ltd via secure  key device £6,800.00
2)04 Jul 2017: to Laird plc via secure  key device £8,800.00
3)05 Jul 2017: to Laird plc via secure  key device £7,200.00
4)07 Jul 2017: to Hanson  Ltd via secure key device £8,500.00
5)11 Jul 2017: to Kingfisher  plc via secure  key device £5,800.00
6)17 Jul 2017: to Kingfisher  plc via secure  key device £4,000.00
TOTAL: £41,100.00
2.It was not until after the last scam payment on 17 July 2017, with the account  largely  
depleted, that Miss M and/or  S realised  something  untoward  had happened. They 
reported to HSBC on 27 July 2017  that Miss Ms email address had been  impersonated  
in order to trick E into making payments to a scammer.  By the time HSBC was able to 
investigate that same day, it was already too late as all but £575.66 of the stolen funds 
had been spirited away  from the receiving banks, leaving C with a loss of £40,524.34. 
3.I accept that these were authorised payments even though C and/or those acting on its 
behalf were the victims of a sophisticated  scam.  E used the secure  key device she had 
been given by S (acting for C) in order to request the payments.  So, although E did not 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of Cs account, C is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.   
4.However, taking into account  the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made  or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst  other  things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;  and  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
5.I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case  to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank like HSBC that Cs account was being subjected to unusual  and 
uncharacteristic activity such that there were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or 
scam, and therefore justify an intervention  (such  as phoning one of the authorised 
account signatories in order  to ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of 
the payments). As the investigator before me pointed out, the scam payments were 
significantly higher  than nearly  all of the legitimate payments made by C in the prior 12 
months (most of which had been  no more than roughly £1,000  to £1,500  each time). 
6.I accept HSBCs point, in response  to the investigator, that there  had been  an unqueried 
legitimate payment  by C of £8,900 on 17 March 2017, only about three months  before 
the scam. I also accept  HSBCs  point that C held a business account, so might  
reasonably be expected  to make certain payments that one would not necessarily expect 
from an ordinary consumer. But these  factors  will, in my judgment, affect the amount of 
Ref: DRN419509210compensation payable (see below)  rather than the banks fundamental liability. By the 
time of payment (3) on 5 July 2017 for £7,200, it ought reasonably to have been clear  to 
HSBC that a very suspicious  pattern  was emerging:  a relatively quick succession of 
larger-than-usual payments all to new payees,  which were gradually but inexorably 
depleting the account of all its funds.  Although  the configuration  and efficacy of its fraud-
detection systems are ultimately a matter for HSBC  and/or regulators, this sequence of 
unusual and uncharacteristic  new payments  strikes me as classic indicators of potential 
fraud regardless of whether the account is a business or consumer one. 
7.In my opinion, HSBC should have been  triggered to intervene by the time of the third 
payment, i.e. 5 July 2017. If it had phoned any of the account signatories at the time
which included Miss M and Sin order to question whether  C really  did intend  to make 
so many large payments to new payees,  it seems highly likely that the scam  would have  
been exposed  there and then, thereby preventing any further losses. S would probably 
have made enquiries of E and/or  Miss M about  these payments, and they would have 
immediately recognised that these were not in fact genuine messages and that someone  
else was impersonating  Miss Ms email  address  (by hiding their real email address 
behind her display  name). I attach copies of the emails to this provisional decision for 
HSBCs information in case it has not yet seen them.  It is probable that, if it had acted  on 
these triggers of unusual and uncharacteristic activity, a simple  enquiry from HSBC to 
the true accountholders before processing  payment (3) would have prevented  that and 
subsequent losses,  which  totalled  £25,500 (less  the recovered £575.66). 
8.Because I think HSBC  is liable  for losses (3) to (6), insofar as they would not have 
accrued but for its inaction,  it is not strictly necessary for me to consider whether or not 
the bank could and should  have done more  to try to recover the payments from the 
receiving banks  once  the scam was reported. But for completeness,  I am satisfied that 
HSBC did act reasonably swiftly, so this was probably not an effective cause of the 
losses. It seems  logical  and likely  that scammers  would spirit away the stolen monies 
very quickly precisely to avoid  the risk of detection and recovery.  
9.I consider that C will in any event have to forgo  the first two losses  totalling £15,600  
because I think it would be unfair and unreasonable to expect HSBC to have intervened 
straightaway in the context of an active business account which had instructed a 
legitimate payment  of £8,900 in March 2017, unchallenged during the following three  
months, and comparable in size to the scam payments. But another key issue is 
whether, as HSBC  has argued,  account should  also be taken of Cs own acts or 
omissions. In other words, whether there  was contributory  negligence  such  as might  
justify a reduction in compensation  (which  the courts have allowed whendespite 
finding a bank liable for failing to take enough  care in the face of suspicious activity on its 
customers accountthere is also evidence of failings by the customer, e.g. Singularis 
Holdings Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd [2019]  UKSC 50).    
10.I am satisfied there is evidence of failings  by those responsible for C at the material time.  
The treasurer, S, was being paid through his company to look after Cs accounts   yet 
delegated this to a junior employee seemingly without any proper care or oversight. 
These are not just my conclusions but also those of C and/or its members. For example, 
the minutes of the clubs EGM on 14 August 2017  state (amongst other things):
This was a straightforward scam that would  have been evident when  the recipient of the 
emails clicked  on the display name and saw the email had not originated from the Chair

Ref: DRN419509211The Chair immediately informed the Treasurer that those emails had not been sent by her 
and they were  very obviously fake

The Treasurer  also acknowledged that the payments had all been by his employee made  
without checking with the Chair first why such  payments needed to be made without an 
invoice or explanation as to what  the payments  were for. 

The Committee  had not given  permission  for anyone at the Treasurers company  to make 
payments on the Clubs behalf. All permissions  were granted  by the Treasurer  without 
Committee authorisation. All six payments in this case were made  by an employee  at the 
Treasurers company without invoices being requested.
The Clubs policy is for all payments to be made only upon  receipt  of valid invoices. This is 
always how all Club payments are made...
The Committees  best practice is for Committee approval to be obtained on any non-regular 
or new payments over £100. In any event these payments were in breach of the Clubs 
Constitution which requires dual signatory  on any payments over £3,000 (although  in practice 
no person on the Committee can authorise payments up to this amount without Committee 
approval).
11.Minutes at other meetings go further.  For example,  on 28 November 2017,  the 
committee met and proposed the expulsion of the (by now) former treasurer  and they 
made the following observations:
Ss actions amount to incompetence  and gross negligence and he made  a series of 
catastrophic errors which resulted in the Club losing  almost  all its accumulated reserves to the 
point that we did not know if the Club would survive. He handed over the Clubs bank account 
details/passwords/chip and pin pad to an employee. It appears that S did not look at the Club 
account for almost a month as he did not notice these payments leaving the account  (the 
account went  from a balance of £43,854.92 on 15 June to a balance  of £833.91 on 19 July). 
This enormous drop in funds  was never raised  with the Chair/Committee as an urgent matter.  
Further S did not once query to whom the payments were being made  (companies all 
unrelated to the Club/REDACTED)  nor did he notice that the amounts were  highly unusual 
and enormous payments in comparison to the Clubs usual payments (for example two of the 
payments paid out within  three  days were  for over £8,000  (£8,500  and £8,800) and over a 
three day period  (i.e. 4th July to 7th July  £24,500  was paid out of the account  without any 
questions being asked). 
S/his company made all of these payments  without  an invoice or picking up the phone to 
enquire what  the payments were for. Also S has shown no remorse  or made any effort to 
apologise
12.It is clear  that C and its solicitors thought there  was incompetence and gross 
negligence by S and his company. Indeed,  I have seen two letters-before-action  dated 
16 November 2017 to that effect,  one to S and one to his company: 
By reason  of your breach  of your duties to the Club as Treasurer and trustee, the Club has 
suffered loss and damage of £41,100.  It intends to seek damages from you in that amount. 
[]
By reason  of Ls negligence and/or breach of contract, the Club has suffered loss and 
damage of £41,100. It intends to seek damages from you in that amount.
Ref: DRN419509212Further, since  the events  referred  to above, the Club has instructed an independent firm of 
accountants to review its accounts. They have informed the Club that the books and records 
kept by the Treasurer of the Club are in disarray and it is plain that the organisation  of the 
records for which L was instructed has not been carried out. Consequently, the Club also 
seeks repayment  of the price paid for this service, which was not carried out.
13.On Cs own version of events, one of its key committee members  was negligent and at 
least partly  to blame for the reasonably foreseeable type of loss that ultimately  occurred. 
It is also clear  from the clubs minutes that the payments  were  made  in breach of Cs 
own constitution  and rules. The constitution includes the following (my emphasis):
12.1 All moneys payable to the Club shall be received by the Treasurer and deposited in a 
bank account in the name of the Club. No sum above £3,000.00 shall  be drawn from  that 
account except by cheque signed by two of the signatories who shall be the Chairman, 
Vice Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer
14.And there  also seems to have  been a breach of Cs Payments and Expenses  Policy, as 
these very large payments were  made  without any proper invoices, supervision, 
committee referrals  or oversight from S  even  though all the payment requests were 
via email (so, strictly speaking, required telephone  verification too, which would have  
smoked-out the scam):
2.3 Any request to the Club for payment of an amount over £100 shall be referred  by the 
Chair or the Finance Coordinator  to the Committee and such payment requires  the prior 
approval of the majority  of the Committee  before the payment can be made.
2.4 Any payment to be made by the Club shall only be made following  receipt of a valid 
invoice or expenses claim in writing.
2.5 Where a request  for payment is made to any officer of the Club by email, such request  
must be verified by the relevant  officer by telephone with the Chair or Finance  Coordinator.
15.If those  acting for and on behalf of C had exercised greater care and followed the clubs 
published rules  and policies, which presumably existed to try to limit this sort of financial 
harm, it seems likely  that the losses might  have been prevented or reduced.  But in 
addition to this contributory negligence at the time of the payments, I am also mindful of 
Cs later failure to try to mitigate  its loss given that it had identified  the contributory  
failings of S and/or his company; and, moreover,  accused  him of gross  negligence both 
publicly and in formal pre-action correspondence. I do not think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to ignore this. When I asked  Miss M why C had not carried out its solicitors 
threats to sue S and/or his company,  she replied  (amongst other  things) that:
It has taken  the Club over three years to recoup the level of money held by the Club in the 
Account at the time of the fraud. The Club has no intention of spending this money on a legal 
challenge when there is no guarantee of success, no matter how strong we believe our case 
would be. Further, we do not know  if [S] is even still resident in the UK... In any event,  even if 
the Club was successful in a legal challenge against [S] and/or his company, there would  be 
no guarantee  that the Club would be able to successfully  enforce any judgement against  him 
if he is not resident  here and/or if he if has sufficient means  to satisfy any judgement.  
Irrespective of how much money is in the Account now, the Club is not prepared to take the 
risk of bringing a legal challenge against the former  Treasurer  and incurring significant legal 
costs in the process and jeopardising the funds  which consecutive Committees and our 
members have put so much work into generating since the fraud in July 2017. It follows that 
the Club believes that it is in our members  best interests that the money which the Club now 
holds is spent  on advancing  the activities of the Club
Ref: DRN41950921316.Whilst I empathise with such thoughts, I believe that a victim of wrongdoing does have a 
duty to try to mitigate loss if this is reasonably  possible. I accept  that a vulnerable  victim 
may not be expected to mitigate if, say, he cannot fund the steps needed  to mitigate  due 
to his circumstances, or if doing so would cause  undue  hardship. But a victim should not 
generally just do nothing,  expecting  the wrongdoer  to pay for all consequential losses, 
even those that might have been reduced or extinguished with reasonable steps. For 
example, it is sometimes necessary for a victim to take out a loan and then claim back 
the additional cost of that credit from the wrongdoer. Many  lawyers will also act on a no-
win-no-fee basis if the case  has reasonable prospects  of success;  and it is sometimes  
possible to fund meritorious litigation through after-the-event legal expenses insurance  
to guard against the risk of adverse costs. I have seen no persuasive  evidence that Cs 
committee sought to raise funds for such action, whether from its members or via 
alternatives such as a loan, crowdfunding, etc. 
17.In my judgment,  sending  just two solicitors letters and then seemingly making  no 
concerted effort to follow-up on those or investigate further strikes me as potentially 
contributing to the loss now claimed   when  it might  reasonably  have been mitigated by 
properly pursuing  S, his company or their professional-indemnity insurers  (who  should 
indemnify a third-party claimant directly  if their policyholder is insolvent or absent, cf. the 
Third Parties (Rights  against Insurers) Act 2010). I appreciate it is less risky to seek  sole 
recovery from a regulated bank which is subject to our scheme  as we neither charge 
complainants nor award costs  against  a losing party. But that singular approach is not 
necessarily fair and reasonable when, on Cs own version of events and on the 
evidence, one of its own committee members was partly responsible  for what happened.  
18.In the circumstances,  although I agree that HSBC is responsible for failing to act on clear 
triggers of unusual  and uncharacteristic activity from payment (3) onwards, I am not 
persuaded that C is wholly  without blame or can reasonably be held to be merely  an 
unwitting victim of clever criminals. This is not like most consumer cases  where  the 
victim is an uninformed layperson utterly in thrall  to the sophisticated machinations  of a 
fraudster. The treasurer responsible  for this business account was effectively being paid 
to look after it through  his company   and delegated this to an employee of his 
professional firm, a firm which  might reasonably be expected to take care over accounts 
and to check invoices  and payment requests more carefully than an ordinary consumer. 
So I am not persuaded, despite  their financial difficulties after the scam, that it was 
reasonable of C to take no effective action  against S and/or his company and/or their 
insurers just because  S failed to respond to a couple of letters-before-action. Overall,  this 
strikes me as an unreasonable failure  to mitigate  a loss for which C was partly  
responsible in the first place.
19.Accordingly, I am satisfied that it would  be fair and reasonable, on the specific facts of 
this case, to reduce the compensation  payable  by HSBC by 50%.  In other words, of the 
suspicious £25,500 which  HSBC  might reasonably  have queried and stopped,  I consider 
it should refund half to C (less  the £575.66 already recovered from Lloyds Bank). That is, 
a total award of £12,174.34  plus interest at our usual  rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date of loss to the date of refund  (less any tax lawfully deductible). This interest is not 
punitiveas HSBC has argued in this and other cases  of which  I am aware as it 
merely reflects  the average  cost to a complainant  who may have to borrow  in order to 
replace lost funds;  it is not supposed to reflect  interest  actually lost on savings, which we 
accept has been far lower for many  years now.  
Ref: DRN419509214my provisional decision  
For the reasons  set out above, I am minded to uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank UK 
plc but reduce the compensation payable by 50% for contributory negligence and/or failure 
to mitigate. Therefore,  my proposed award is that, within  28 days of Cs acceptance of a final 
decision, HSBC  shall pay into the account it holds for C the following:
£12,174.34; plus
Interest on the above sum at the simple rate of 8% a year.  To keep things 
straightforward, I suggest that interest runs on the full sum from 5 July 2020the 
date when I think HSBCs alerts ought reasonably  to have been triggereduntil the 
date of actual  refund (though  I am open to submissions on this, as we do usually 
award interest from the date of each respective lost payment); and
If any tax is lawfully  deductible from the interest  payment, HSBC may do this but 
should provide  C with a tax-deduction certificate upon request. 
I have made  no additional  award  for distress  because  C is not complaining as a natural 
person so cannot suffer non-pecuniary emotional  harm. Those individuals involved in 
bringing the complaint are not the eligible complainant for such purposes. I am satisfied that 
HSBCs goodwill payment  of £100 was a fair gesture for inconvenience, so I intend to leave 
it untouched. 
Mark Sceeny
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4195092