K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL didnt  sell the PPI to Mrs L, but it has taken responsibility for the complaint, so I shall 
refer to it as if it was the seller.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
February 2019. Its attached here and it forms part of my final decision.
Neither party made any comment on my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from my 
original findings.  I dont think Mrs L lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong.
my final decision
As explained in my provisional decision Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint so it follows  that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited doesnt  have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42784442Provisional decision
complaint
Mrs L complains  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL didnt sell the PPI to Mrs L, but it has taken responsibility for the complaint, so I shall refer to it 
as if it was the seller.
background
Mrs L took out a store card with FICL  in 1995. At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover  her repayments on the card for up to a year at a time if Mrs L couldnt work.  It 
also provided  purchase  protection  cover.
Mrs L says that she didnt  know it had been added to her account and she didnt give her consent. 
She says she didnt need  the policy and that she wouldnt have been  able to claim for sickness 
anyway.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im considering not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Ill 
explain why.
First, Ill deal with Mrs Ls specific complaint that she didnt give her permission for the PPI to be 
added to her account.  FICL has been  able to supply a copy  of Mrs Ls application form for her store 
card. I can see that theres a choice about whether to take the PPI. Mrs L ticked in a box to say she 
wanted it. And she signed  the completed form. I also have  to consider  that the PPI appeared  on Mrs 
Ls statements each month, so if she hadnt agreed to take the PPI I think shed have queried  it when 
she saw it.
So, on balance,  I think its most  likely that Mrs L agreed to buy the PPI knowing she didnt  have to, 
even if she doesnt remember it now, many years later. 
FICL didnt give Mrs L a personal recommendation for the PPI, so it didnt have  to check that it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure it gave Mrs L enough  information about the policy so she 
could make her own mind up about it. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs L wasnt given enough  information about an important exclusion.  I 
agree with the adjudicator on this point. But this doesnt mean  I should automatically uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint. I have to consider whether Mrs L wouldve acted differently and not bought the policy  if 
shed understood the exclusion.
Mrs L suffers  from a common  respiratory condition. Mrs L says that because  of this she wouldnt have 
been able to make a successful sickness claim on the policy. 
While the policy wouldnt  have  covered her existing  condition, it would  have paid out for any other 
unrelated condition Mrs L developed  after the start of the policy. 
Thinking about Mrs Ls existing  condition, I consider it would have been very unlikely that shed ever 
be off work  for long enough  to need  to make  a claim related to it. I think  it was more  likely  to cause 
Mrs L to have short-term  absences  from work  of a few days at a time.
Ref: DRN42784443I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs Ls condition wasnt  controlled or that it was likely to lead to 
other problems which may also have been excluded. So I dont think, if Mrs L understood the 
exclusion properly, that it wouldve made her change her mind about  taking the policy. 
Mrs L had some sick pay from her employer, but the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer than her sick pay wouldve  lasted. Mrs L didnt have any other means  to make 
her repayments after her sick pay ended, or if she was made redundant.  So I think the policy provided 
a useful benefit. 
The policy was more  expensive than many on the market around the same  time, but it provided a 
greater benefit and could  have quickly paid off Mrs Ls balance in full over a period of a few months.  
And I havent seen anything to suggest the policy  was unaffordable for Mrs L.
So, on balance,  I dont think Mrs L lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. But Ill consider any further evidence  either 
party wants to supply before  1 March  2019 before I make my final decision.
Ref: DRN4278444