K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limiteds  (Lloyds) handling 
of their buildings insurance  claim. They think the decision not to settle the claim for damage 
to the bathroom  is unfair and the cash settlement  offered  to repair  the kitchen is too low. 
When I refer to Lloyds  Im also referring to any of their appointed representatives.
background
In July 2018 Mrs C suffered a fall in her shower. To steady herself, she reached for her grab 
rail and all of her weight was placed onto the shower  tray on and around the plug hole. 
Following the fall, Mr and Mrs C noticed  a couple of cracks in the shower  tray. Due to the 
cracks, water leaked through to their kitchen ceiling  and caused damage to that too.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim under  their buildings insurance policy. Lloyds sent an 
independent expert  to Mr and Mrs Cs house to assess the damage. The experts  report  said 
it was more likely the damage to the shower  tray was a result of stress fractures caused over 
time, rather than the one-off event of Mrs C falling. Because of that, Lloyds declined the 
claim for the shower and said it would deal with the damage to the kitchen under a separate 
part of the insurance policy. 
Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs C a cash settlement for the repair  work  in the kitchen, based on 
its chosen contractors  scope of works. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with Lloyds. They felt the decision to decline the claim for the 
bathroom was unfair  and didnt accept the stress  fractures had been caused over a period of 
time. They also felt the offer made to cash settle the kitchen repairs  was too low.           
Mr and Mrs C provided their own estimate to Lloyds,  but this didnt change  its offer.  
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed  with Lloyds. He 
felt the experts  report was the more likely explanation for the damage that had been caused. 
He also said the offer made by Lloyds  to cash settle  the kitchen repairs was fair and in line 
with its contractors scope  of works to complete the job.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this so its been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Lloyds 
to do anything more.  Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs C are covered for accidental damage  on their buildings  insurance policy,  so from 
their point of view I can understand why they believe their claim for damage to the shower 
should be met. However, their insurance policy  also carries  some  general exclusions, one of 
which is:
any loss or damage  caused by:
A gradually operating cause.
Ref: DRN42965232The report  submitted by the expert  states  the cracks in the shower  tray are more than likely 
caused by stress fractures that have  occurred over a period of time. 
Mrs Cs fall may have made  the cracks more prominent, but its reasonable for Lloyds to rely 
on their experts assessment of the damage. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C dispute the 
validity of the report  as some of the information in it is incorrect,  in particular the material 
used for the shower tray. The shower tray is made  from stone resin, as opposed to acrylic as 
mentioned in the report. Mr and Mrs C have said that these shower  trays have never 
cracked before.  But they havent  provided  anything to confirm  this or to suggest the fall was 
the sole cause  of the cracks appearing. Our investigator asked the experts about the 
material of the shower tray and the damage  caused  to it. The experts  have said that the 
waste area would become  weak over time irrespective of the material  of the tray and the 
cracks are as a result of stress fractures caused over time.  Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt acted 
unfairly in declining this part of the claim based on the report it has received and the 
subsequent comments  from the experts. 
Lloyds has received an estimate  from its chosen contractor to repair the kitchen ceiling and 
other work required.  As per the insurance  policy, it offered Mr and Mrs C its contractor to 
carry out the repairs, or it will cash settle the claim for Mr and Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C are 
unhappy with the amount offered to cash settle,  as they provided their own estimate from a 
local contractor which was substantially  more. This has led Mr and Mrs C to believe that, by 
choosing Lloydss contractor to carry out the work, they will get substandard repairs 
completed. 
Its for Mr and Mrs C to decide who they would like to carry out the repair work. But there 
isnt anything to suggest Lloydss contractor  would complete substandard repairs. The scope 
of works provided by both contractors is very similar so Im satisfied Lloyds contractor has 
understood what needs to be done. The insurance  policy allows Lloyds to cash settle the 
claim for the amount it can get the repairs completed for, so its offer to Mr and Mrs C is in 
line with the policy terms. Because  of that I dont think Lloyds has to do anything  else here.
If Mr and Mrs C wish to accept Lloydss cash settlement offer they will need to get in touch 
with it to let it know. I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything else in regard  to the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42965233
Ref: DRN4296523