K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy. Ms B says 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the MPPI. 
Background
There has been some dispute about when the MPPI policy  was sold  Santander say the 
policy was sold in 1995, but Ms B thinks the policy was taken out in 1991.
Having looked  at the evidence available, our adjudicator concluded that the policy was most 
likely sold in 1991. This is because while Santander only has evidence  of premiums being  
paid since 1995,  Ms Bs mortgage application  shows  that MPPI was selected in 1991. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Ms B didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms B case.
Like our adjudicator, I think its likely that the policy was sold to Ms B in 1991. Although there  
are no records  of premiums being  paid until 1995, Ms Bs mortgage application shows  MPPI 
was selected in 1991, and as everything happened so long ago, it may just be that there are 
no records of premiums  going back that far. So I will consider the complaint on the basis that 
the sale took place in 1991.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms S says that at the time she applied for her mortgage, she was told that she should 
protect herself with MPPI. She says she trusted the person, but now thinks she was led to 
believe that she had to take the MPPI in order to be accepted for the mortgage.  Ms B has 
also highlighted that the application  form has the wording we strongly recommend you 
protect your monthly mortgage repayments  
I wasnt there at the time, and cant know what exactly  was discussed. So I have  to base my 
decision on the information I do have. Ive seen  a copy of Ms Bs mortgage  application,  and I 
can see that the MPPI is presented as optional  and has been selected. Ms B has then 
signed the application agreeing to the information on it.
While I can appreciate what Ms B has said, recommending  that someone protect their 
mortgage isnt the same as telling someone that they have to take out MPPI   and I would 
expect a business to try and sell its products.  And taking everything  in to account,  I think  
Santander made it clear  that Ms B didnt have to take out the MPPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this as I t was so long ago.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Ms B so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. Ms B 
Ref: DRN44750242was self-employed,  but her employment status didnt make it any harder  for her to make  a 
claim than someone who was employed, and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the MPPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Ms B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI  to Ms B.
Other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Santander has given  me information that shows Ms Bs was taken out and ended before 6 
April 2008. So based on what  Ive said above,  I dont think  the unfair  relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment, or the rules and guidance made 
by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission apply here.
So Santander doesnt need to refund  any of the commission  Ms B paid for the PPI they had 
with her mortgage.
Ms B says that her mortgage  was still running  in 2008  but this was a different mortgage 
with Santander,  not the mortgage that her MPPI was linked to. 
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ref: DRN44750243Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475024