K820x#14complaint
Ms V through her relative Mr F complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited 
(Prudential) is acting  unfairly and unreasonably  by applying its lending  policies to her 
lifetime mortgage. She wants to be able to move elsewhere without paying  an early  
repayment charge  (ERC).
background
Ms V took out a lifetime  mortgage in 2008 with a lender through a broker,  which was 
transferred to Prudential  in 2010.  She said that when the transfer occurred, she was told that 
there would be no change.  But as the mortgage is now held by Prudential, its lending  
policies apply, not the original lenders, which  Mr F said would have a devasting effect 
upon Ms Vs retirement. This was because the income being  paid to Ms V under the 
mortgage was due to end before the ERC  period ended; Ms V wouldnt  be able to 
remortgage elsewhere to regain her income without paying an ERC for another five years.  
Mr F said the position was unfair because while the original  lender wouldve made  further 
advances to Ms V under its lending policies, Prudential  wouldnt as it no longer  offered such 
mortgages.
Mr F complained to Prudential. It said that the terms and conditions of the original mortgage 
hadnt changed. Ms V had received the money  that the original lender promised to give her 
over ten years,  but the mortgage  said it had to last 15 years to avoid the ERC.  It pointed  out 
that the broker shouldve explained the mortgage to Ms V. Prudential also noted  that the 
original lender never guaranteed that Ms V could borrow more  money  and applications 
would be considered using the lending policies in place at the time.  It said that it was able to 
take the commercial  decision to stop offering such mortgages.
Mr F complained to us. The investigators  view was that Prudential should refund  the ERC. 
This was because while the extra  borrowing wasnt guaranteed, Ms V now definitely couldnt  
borrow further from Prudential. The investigator  felt that this wasnt  fair and was a material  
change to her current mortgage terms. He also pointed out that it was for the broker to 
ensure that the mortgage had been suitable.
Prudential disagreed. It pointed out that the investigator had accepted  that there was no 
guarantee of future borrowing within the original  mortgage, and said as a result the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage  hadnt changed.  Prudential noted that even the original 
lenders terms  and conditions said that it didnt have  to lend extra money. It also thought that 
the investigator was confused about how a lifetime mortgage worked  in practice.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The first point to consider is whether the terms and conditions  of the mortgage changed 
upon transfer to Prudential.  They didnt  in my view. The mortgage  never  promised Ms V 
could have extra money in the future. Indeed, its clear that any such  application would  be 
considered in light of the lending policies that apply at the time and it was made clear that 
there is no guarantee of success by the original lender. 
Ref: DRN49020592The fact that the lending  policies to be applied now are Prudentials, not the original lenders, 
is effectively irrelevant as neither  lender  promised  to lend more  money. Mr F says that the 
original lender definitely wouldve lent the money to Ms V, but I cant  find this theres no 
evidence supporting this view, apart from a suggestion that the broker  said the original 
lender would lend more  money. But the broker  was independent of the lenders and couldnt 
have made  such a binding promise; if he did, thats a matter to be taken up with the broker, 
not Prudential.  And I note that when the mortgage  transferred,  it was made  clear  in the letter  
explaining this to Ms V that she wouldnt be able to borrow extra money  from Prudential.
The next point  to consider  is that it was the role of the broker to explain the mortgage to 
Ms V and ensure that it met her needs.  Ms V was also advised  by a solicitor  about the 
mortgage. She chose  to accept the mortgage offer, which clearly set out that if Ms V repaid 
the mortgage early, and this would include a period of five years when she wasnt receiving 
any income from the lender, shed have to pay the ERC.
Its been suggested that the product itself is unusual. In my experience,  it isnt. Ms V got a 
lump sum and ten years of regular  payments.  The fact that the mortgage was due to last 
longer isnt uncommon in the field of lifetime mortgages. Again though, I would point out that 
this was all set out within the mortgage  offer, and Ms V was advised  by a broker and a 
solicitor. If this product  wasnt  suitable  for Ms V, thats a matter for the broker.
Prudential agreed  with my provisional decision,  but Mr F felt that I hadnt given enough 
weight to his arguments made on Ms Vs behalf.  In essence, Mr F felt that Ms Vs rights  and 
obligations under  the mortgage had changed  due to the transfer  to Prudential, despite the 
terms and conditions of the original mortgage  making it clear  that there was no right to 
borrow more money  in the future. Mr F said that Ms V believed  that she would be able to 
borrow more in the future as she could borrow elsewhere, the equity in her property  would 
increase and it was a profitable loan for the lender  (amongst other  points made).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also thought carefully about what 
Mr F has said, but my view remains as set out in my provisional  decision.
Ms Vs rights  and obligations under the mortgage didnt change due to the transfer of the 
mortgage to Prudential; she had no contractual right to borrow more; and lenders are able to 
use their commercial judgement about whether to lend at all to consumers. In all the 
circumstances of this case,  I think Prudential acted  lawfully,  fairly and reasonably  in requiring 
Ms V to pay the ERC for the reasons  given  previously.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept  or reject my decision before 
20 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4902059