K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 to
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
The PPI covered Mr W only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time it was
sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
The Co-operative had to make Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  I cant be certain  what  was said at the time the 
PPI was sold but The Co-operative has sent us a copy of the paperwork available  at the 
time. Mr W signed  an application form separate from the mortgage to take the policy, and 
the form doesnt say Mr W had to take it out. So, from the information available I think  The 
Co-operative made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and that Mr W 
chose to take it out.
Mr W says he didnt take PPI with other loans and this shows The Co-operative  did advise 
him to take the policy out. I cant see enough evidence that shows The Co-operative  made  
an individual recommendation to Mr W about the policy, so, considering what  is available  I 
dont think The Co-operative recommended the PPI to Mr W. As I dont think  The Co-
operative recommended the policy to Mr W it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information The Co-operative gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr W chose to take out the PPI knowing  the other means  he had 
available which included sick pay and another  policy. In any event the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to Mr Ws sick pay, and for longer. The PPI would also have paid out in 
circumstances that Mr Ws other insurance wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for Mr and Mrs W if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr W off taking out the cover.
I thought about  everything Mr W has said, including that he received a refund  for a similar 
insurance product  taken  out around the same  time.  But we look at each case  on its own 
merits, so this doesnt change my decision.
So, The Co-operative doesnt have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
Ref: DRN40222562my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 December  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4022256