K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from September 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was considering  upholding Mrs Gs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. No substantive responses were submitted.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither of the parties has provided  any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited  
should pay compensation to Mrs G as detailed in my provisional decision below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42351942COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs G has complained that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a store card 
PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility  for the sale of such policies.  To keep things simple, Ill 
therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs G took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to ensure  that Mrs G was given a choice about buying  the policy, but from the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think that FICL has been  able to show that was the case.
Mrs G applied for the card in store by filling out a form. She says she presumed  that she had to have 
the insurance.
Looking at the application form, there is a separate section for PPI with a Yes  box that could be 
ticked to accept the policy.  The box has been ticked and there  is a signature next to the tick. The 
signature is not that of Mrs G. Neither does  it correspond with the name of the staff member in the 
store that was dealing with the sale  I can tell this because the store  staff members surname is 
noted in the store  use only section at the top of the form. Ive got some concerns about this. Firstly, if 
Mrs G had ticked the box herself at the time (or even if the store member had completed the form for 
her and then asked her to check it before signing at the bottom), there would be no need for a 
signature next to the tick. Secondly, if for some reason it was felt that the tick was an amendment  that 
needed authorisation,  I would expect  it to be Mrs Gs signature on the form.
I therefore  have significant doubts about the sales process and overall I am unable to conclude that 
Mrs G was given a choice about having the PPI applied to her account.
Normally I would go on to consider other aspects of the sale. But Im currently satisfied that the failure  
to give Mrs G a choice  about  buying the policy  is sufficient reason in itself to uphold the complaint.
putting things  right
FICL should put Mrs G in the financial  position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mrs G wouldve owed when  she closed her store card account if 
the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
Ref: DRN42351943FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when  she closed her account 
and what she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G wouldve owed when she 
closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Mrs G wouldve owed each month without PPI  Mrs G paid more  
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs G paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs G wouldve  owed FICL something 
on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs G a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and require Financial Insurance Company 
Limited to pay compensation as detailed  above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN4235194