K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complai ned about the way Ageas Insurance  Limited handled a claim for a wate r 
leak under her home  insurance policy and about  the settlement it offered .
background
Mrs B made a claim to Ageas after she discovered  a water leak from a tank in her attic.  She 
said there was dama ge to her kitchen celling, kitchen floor and hall floor.
Ageas instructed its agent to manage Mrs Bs claim. The agent met her and her builder at 
the propert y to assess the damage. Mrs B said shed like a cash settlement, rather  than 
Ageas carryi ng out the work.
The agent drew up a schedule of repair works and calcul ated repairs  would cost £3,660  
excluding VAT. The works included replacing two wall units and one end panel in Mrs Bs 
kitchen but not replaci ng any of the matchin g but unda mage d units. Ageas said her policy 
didnt cover any undamage d items  just because they wouldnt match  the new units. It said it 
would pay her £3,660  less the excess of £300 payable  under  her policy. At first Mrs B 
disagreed that the cash settlement offer was enou gh. But she later accepted  it.
Then Mrs B compl ained to Ageas  that the cash settlement wasnt enough to pay for a new 
kitchen. She also said at one point Ageas s agent  had led her to believe Ageas would 
incre ase its settlement offer which turned out to be incorrect.
Ageas apologised about the wrong  informati on Mrs B had been given. But it didnt incre ase 
the settlement.
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision  explaining  why I 
was minded to uphold  her complaint. An extract  from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Age as said accordi ng to its agent  Mrs B didnt need  to have her entire  kitchen replaced and 
it thought her builder should  be able to remove and later re-instate the undamaged units. I 
haven t seen any evidence to the contrary although I understa nd Mrs B was advised by her 
builder that this wouldnt be possib le. So Ill work on the basis that the undamaged units 
could have  been refitted after the walls had been  repai red.
Ageas doesnt think it should have to pay for the undamaged units  because  Mrs Bs policy 
contai ns an exclusion  that Ageas isnt liable to pay for any items which were nt damaged 
themselves if theyre only being replaced  to match  new items. Thats the basis on which it 
said it would  only pay to replace two dama ged units and an end panel  as opposed  to all 
the units in Mrs Bs kitchen.
I  often see situations where an insure r cant replace  an item with an exact match  because  
its no longer made, as was the case here. This mean s it would need to be replaced with the 
nearest equivalent . Consumers like Mrs B often feel their insurance policy should  cover the 
cost of replacing  the whole set of kitchen units when this happens,  so they usual ly arent 
happy with being offered  a replacement that isnt an exact match - in this case that would be 
two kitchen  units and an end panel  that wouldnt match the rest of the kitchen. That might 
not seem fair to the consumer.
Ref: DRN41950102But the insurance policy specifically covers damaged items only. So it might also seem 
unfair to expect the insurer  to pay for items that have nt been  damaged. For that reason 
I think a compromi se is a fair and pragmatic way forwa rd. In my opinion Mrs B should be 
paid compensati on to reflect the loss of match  which shed have had if she hadn t 
funded the balance  of the cost of a new kitchen out of her own resources. I think  fair 
compensation in this case would be for Ageas to pay 50 per cent of the costs  of 
replacing the undamaged kitchen units.
In view of the time thats passed, I  think Ageas  should pay simple interest at the rate of 8 per 
cent a year on the addit ional settlement referred to above from the date it made the original 
cash settlem ent to the date of payment.
Ive also looked at how Ageas handled this claim.  I can understan d that it would have been 
very disapp ointing  for Mrs B to be given incor rect information about her claim,  particularly 
when that informa tion led her to belie ve Ageas would  incre ase its cash  settle ment offer. In 
order to compen sate her for the trouble  and upset caused by that I  think Ageas should pay 
Mrs B £50 comp ensatio n.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision and had nothing  further  to add, I see no 
reason to change  it. So my provisional  findings  now form part of these findings.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B:
   50 per cent of the costs  of replaci ng her unda maged kitchen units  together  with simple 
interest* at the rate of 8 per cent a year from the date it made  the original cash  settle ment 
to the date of paymen t; and
   £50 compensa tion for the troub le and upset it caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*lf Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate  showing  this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4195010