K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
The facts  of this complaint  are well known by both parties, so I havent  set them out in 
details. But, in summary, Mr C was involved in a non-fault  accident in his truck in April 2018. 
So he contacted UKI to claim on his motor insurance policy. UKI arranged  for the truck to go 
to one of its approved repairers (garage one).  But the garage said that there  was rust on the 
truck in the area of the damage  caused  by the accident. Mr C said this matter  was being 
considered by another ombudsman scheme.  The garage said that they werent willing to do 
the repairs while this matter was in dispute.  Mr C also complained  that the garage had 
caused further damage to the truck. The garage  accepted this and they said theyd pay for 
another garage to do the repairs, but they wouldnt do the repairs  themselves. Mr C also said 
that he didnt want garage one to do the repairs.
UKI then arranged for the truck to go to a second  garage who initially  said that theyd do the 
repairs. But they then said that they werent  willing to do the repairs  any further.  A number of 
other garages were  contacted to see if theyd do the repairs,  but they werent willing  to do 
so. Following this UKI said that it wanted  to settle  the claim by paying  Mr C £5,609.50 which 
is how much  garage one said it would cost to repair the damage  caused by the accident and 
the damage theyd  caused. Mr C didnt agree with this and said that UKI was legally required 
to fix his truck. He also says that UKIs engineer was unnecessarily telling the garages  the 
history of the complaint and raising the issue with the rust. He said this is the reason the 
garages wont repair his truck. He said that the other  ombudsman service  had said that there  
isnt any rust. So he doesnt  think the engineer should  have  said this.
UKI said that it couldnt source another garage to do the repairs,  so it said its only option was 
to pay him the amount it thinks  it would cost to repair the car. It also offered Mr C £300 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it said it unfairly caused  in particular for 
its approved repairer  causing further  damage  to his truck.
Mr C later was able to source  another  garage who said that theyd do the repairs.  So UKI 
arranged for the truck to be taken to that garage. But that garage ultimately said that it 
wasnt willing to do the repairs either.  
.
Mr C complained separately to this service about the repairs  settlement and that issue has 
been considered in a separate complaint. UKI ultimately paid Mr C £7,804.30 as a cash 
settlement. But Mr C has also complained about the length of time the claim took. He said it 
took UKI 14 weeks to ultimately issue the settlement.  UKI didnt  think it had caused any 
delays. And it said that it had provided Mr C with a replacement vehicle for the majority of 
the time the claim  was ongoing.
Mr C said that hes suffered the following  losses  while  the claim has been ongoing:
He had to pay for the finance  for his truck and road tax costs while it was off the road 
(£2,984.76 and £120 respectively);
The truck was his pride and joy and hes lost that;
The truck has depreciated in value while it was off the road. He estimates  this to be 
around £7,320;
Ref: DRN46811452UKI ended his hire agreement in August 2018  and it only offered to provide him a small 
car, which he didnt think  was acceptable. And he says hes incurred expenses while 
being without  a hire vehicle;
Hes had to take time off work  due to stress.
Mr C is also unhappy with the customer service UKI has provided throughout the claim. Hes 
raised the following points: 
He suffered victimization, harassment  and bullying  from UKI staff.
His claim handler at UKI was changed without him being informed.
UKI sold his contact details to a third party who has been  cold-calling Mr C frequently 
that he is seriously considering changing  his phone number.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  UKI had caused any undue  
delays. She also acknowledged  that Mr C had been given a hire car of a comparable  
standard to his own for the majority  of the claim period. And she said it didnt need to do so. 
So she also didnt think it was unreasonable that UKI withdrew  the hire car in August 2018.
Further to this, she said that the terms of the policy didnt cover  loss of earnings  and 
depreciation to the truck. She didnt think UKI had caused any losses  as it gave Mr C a like-
for-like hire vehicle for the majority of the claim.  
The investigator also didnt think UKI had treated Mr C unfairly on the calls or in the way that 
it handled the claim.
Mr C didnt agree with this view and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
The way that UKI ultimately chose to settle  the claim  by paying Mr C a cash settlement of 
£7,804.30 was considered under a separate complaint reference. So I havent looked at that 
in this decision. In this decision Ive looked  at whether UKI caused any unreasonable delays 
in its handling  of the complaint and also the customer service it gave.
time taken  to deal with complaint
Mr C is unhappy that it took around 14 weeks for the claim to be settled. I dont dispute thats 
the case, but I dont think UKI is responsible for these delays. I also dont think its handled 
the complaint  unreasonably. The complaint has taken as long as it did, due to the fact that a 
number of garages have refused to carry out the repair work for various reasons. But I dont 
think this was down  to UKI.
I think UKI did arrange for the truck to go to garage one within  a reasonable period of time. 
Unfortunately that garage wasnt willing to carry out the repairs because Mr C had an 
ongoing issue in respect to alleged rust on the truck  with the other ombudsman service. I 
note that Mr C was unhappy  that the garage caused  further damage to his truck, but I dont 
think this caused  further delays as the garage wasnt willing  to do the repairs,  even if the 
Ref: DRN46811453damage hadnt been caused due to the ongoing dispute with the rust. So I dont think  this 
caused any delays  to the settlement of the claim.
Following this, UKI arranged for the truck  to go to another garage and this was also done 
within a reasonable period of time. However, this garage later said that it also wasnt  willing 
to do the repairs  as its relationship with Mr C had broken down. I dont think  this was down to 
anything that UKI did.
Mr C has said that UKIs  engineer has deliberately  stopped the garages from repairing his 
truck. But I havent seen  enough to say that the engineer  has acted unfairly. It appears to me 
that the fundamental issue in respect to this matter  rests with the fact that UKI said there 
was rust in the area of damage caused by the accident, which  it wasnt  willing  to repair.  Mr C 
says that another ombudsman service found  in his favour in respect to the rust dispute.  But 
irrespective of what the ombudsman service concluded there was rust on the truck and I 
dont think this is disputed. And this was in the area of the truck that was damaged by the 
accident.
The terms of the policy doesnt cover repair to rust as this would  put Mr C in a better  position  
than he was before.  So I dont  think it was unreasonable that UKI took this into 
consideration. I can see that the engineer did highlight this with one of the garages whod 
previously told Mr C that it would repair the vehicle. Following this, the garage said it was no 
longer willing  to do the repair. 
Mr C doesnt think the engineer should have said this. But Im conscious that UKI had 
already paid to transport  Mr Cs truck to two separate  garages by this point. So I dont  think  it 
was unreasonable that it wanted to ensure  that the garage had a full understanding of the 
repair requirements. I also dont  think it told the garage anything  it didnt  need  to know.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show  that UKI deliberately or unfairly caused delays to 
the settlement  of the claim.
hire vehicle
Its agreed by the parties that Mr C was provided with a like-for-like vehicle until 17 August 
2018. The claims file shows  that at that point, as part of the cash settlement of his repairs  
claim, Mr C was offered  a hire car until 20 September 2018 when his truck was due to go 
into the garage for repairs and he would be able to have a courtesy  car from the repairer. 
But this wasnt a like-for-like replacement truck  but a small car designed to get him around.  
Mr C rejected the offer of a hire car because it didnt meet  his needs.  As a result  Mr C was 
left without transport  and he says that UKI should compensate him for taxi fares hes 
incurred as a result.
From the record of Mr Cs initial claim notification I see that he told UKI that he used his truck 
to commute to work and he would  need to use taxis at a cost of £35 per journey. But UKI 
said that it will only provide one for while the truck is being repaired and it wont  be a like-for-
like replacement. Mr C explained that he needed a diesel vehicle because  he could claim 
expenses for a diesel  car but not petrol. Under the terms  of Mr Cs policy,  he was entitled to 
a small  hatchback car or similar that is supplied to [Mr C] by the hire car company on a 
temporary basis. This car should keep [Mr C] mobile but may not be the same as [his] car in 
terms of its size, type, value or status. It also only provides one for up to 14 days.  So I dont 
think what UKI said was unfair  as he ultimately  wasnt entitled to what  he was asking for.
Ref: DRN46811454However, because  the other drivers insurer accepted liability  for the claim,  UKI agreed to 
provide a similar level of replacement vehicle to Mr Cs and he was provided with a diesel 
vehicle with tow bar, as this cost would  be covered  by the other drivers insurer.  But this 
wasnt provided under the terms of the policy and UKI didnt have to provide this under the 
terms of the policy.
The hire of this vehicle ended in August 2018.  Mr Cs truck was not due to go in for repairs  
for another  month.  UKI offered him a small hire car and Mr C raised the same objections as 
he had originally. I note Mr Cs objections,  but I dont think UKI was required to offer this 
replacement vehicle at all under the terms of the policy. And it only offered  to do so as a 
goodwill gesture. And, given I dont think UKI caused any undue delays, I cant  say it acted 
unfairly. I also think that Mr Cs taxi costs were  incurred because he refused the hire car he 
was offered. I cant hold UKI responsible for that. 
financial compensation
As I said above, I dont  think  UKI has caused  any unfair  delays in this claim. Im also 
conscious that it provided him with a like-for-like replacement vehicle for around four months  
of the claim. So I dont  think it needs  to compensate Mr C for any losses that hes incurred  
(including not being able to have the enjoyment  of using  his truck) while hes not had his car. 
I think a lot of what hes claiming  is an unfortunate consequence of having  an accident.  I can 
appreciate Mr C is unhappy that hes lost out from an accident that wasnt his fault.  But 
theyre also not covered by the terms of his insurance policy. So I cant require UKI to cover 
them. He may be able to claim some  of these losses from the other  drivers  insurer,  but hell 
need to contact that insurer separately and I cant comment on whether he would be able to 
claim them or not in this decision. 
customer service
Mr C makes a number  of points of grievance amounting to misconduct against named 
individuals on UKIs staff as well as general  points alleging misconduct in handling his claim. 
I have carefully considered his descriptions of these and closely read the extensive 
correspondence and communications  logs on the claim file. 
Its clear that Mr C became frustrated  with UKI from a very early stage in the claim process. 
He reported the claim  at 20:53 on 11 April 2018  and called again, chasing  his claim, at 08.05 
this next morning. At this point he was already saying that UKI was not acting quickly  
enough despite being told that the garages  UKI use are allowed up to 48 hours to contact a 
claimant. 
UKI contacted an engineer at 08.41  that morning  and arranged for Mr Cs vehicle to be 
recovered to the garage. Mr C called UKI a number of times the day after the accident and 
by the end of that day had raised a complaint that the garage wasnt  able to provide him with 
a diesel hire car. The 10.25 telephone  record from UKI records that Mr C expressed  his 
dissatisfaction and started speaking over  said he was doing our work of finding  out the 
CCTV footage  didnt allow me to speak.
Its clear that the impact on Mr Cs ability to work  and earn was serious and he was 
experiencing a great deal of stress and anxiety as a result of the accident  and his vehicle 
being un-drivable.  It seems that this very early  breakdown in his relationship with UKI then 
fed into all later interactions, resulting  in a difficult experience for both parties. While I dont 
dispute that Mr C was unhappy with the fact that he was losing out due to a non-fault 
Ref: DRN46811455accident, I think he had an unreasonable expectation for how long the claim would take. But 
Im not persuaded that UKI treated Mr C unfavourably.
Mr C has also said that he thinks UKI has sold his details onto claims management 
companies. But, while I note his comments in this respect,  I havent  seen enough  to say that 
it has done so.
Ultimately I think  UKI has done its best to help Mr C in difficult  circumstances. And I think  
Mr C has to accept some responsibility for whats happened as a result of the way that hes 
communicated with both UKI and the garages. I cant  say that overall  UKI has acted unfairly 
in its handling  of this claim. Its true that Mr C has suffered some unfair distress and 
inconvenience from this matter, But UKI has already offered him £300 in compensation. And 
I think thats fair compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4681145