K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr B aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  it 
to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr B applied  for his card and PPI but 
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the paperwork available from the time. The application  form 
Mr B completed when he applied for his card had a separate section for PPI where the 
option to take the policy  has been  selected.  The application form has also been signed  by 
Mr B in agreement with the selections that were made. With this in mind  I think Lloyds made 
it clear that Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why he may not remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr B 
has told us he would  have  received  sick pay when  he took out the PPI and could have relied 
on his partner for help.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Bs sick pay, and 
for longer. And while Mr Bs partner  would have wanted to help their ability  to do so would 
have been dependent  on their circumstances at the time, which  could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
Ref: DRN41577552ombudsman
Ref: DRN4157755