K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  disposed of his cars salvage whilst his claim 
on his motor insurance policy was unresolved. Hes also unhappy  with the salvage value 
offered. 
background
Mr Is car was damaged  by fire but Ageas declined his claim. Mr I has complained about this 
matter separately.  Mr I said he then saw his cars  parts advertised for sale before the 
disputed claim had been resolved. Ageas sent him payment for the cars salvage which it 
said was an error as the payment should have gone to his finance company. Mr I said Ageas 
had known the car had finance. He thought  he could have got more for the parts if hed had 
the salvage. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Ageas 
should have communicated better  with Mr I about  its intention  to sell the cars salvage,  as it 
was entitled to do under Mr Is policy. But he didnt  think this had caused  Mr I any loss as he 
hadnt arranged  to recover the salvage  when it was made available  to him. He also thought 
the salvage value Ageas obtained was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr I replied that he disagreed. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr I has gone to considerable trouble and effort to provide further evidence  to 
support his complaint. I can understand his frustration and disappointment that this hasnt 
had a successful  outcome.  But Im unable to uphold his complaint. Ill now explain why I 
think this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr Is policy contains a 
term that says if his car is deemed to be a total loss, then it becomes Ageas property.  
But our approach is that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor  
insurance policy, as Mr Is car was, the insurer becomes the owner of the salvage only after 
the consumer  accepts its settlement of his claim. In Mr Is case, as his claim was declined,  I 
think it would  be reasonable for Ageas become the owner of the salvage when Mr Is dispute 
was resolved. So I agree with the investigator  that Ageas disposed  of the salvage early. 
But I also agree  that this didnt cause Mr I any loss. This was because when Mr I saw the 
salvage advertised for sale and complained to Ageas it stopped the advertisement, albeit a 
few days later. So I cant see that any parts  were  sold.  And Ageas then wrote  to Mr I offering 
him the salvage  with the stipulation that it could only be released  to an authorised treatment 
facility due to the nature  of the damage.  
Ref: DRN47587472Ageas said it offered  retention of parts if a consumer requested this. I think  an insurer may 
choose not to actively  offer the consumer  the salvage. But our stance  is that if the 
consumer asks to keep the salvage,  we would expect the insurer  to allow this. The car is, 
after all, the consumer's property and they should  have the right to keep it if they wish to do 
so. 
But I cant see that Mr I told Ageas that hed arranged  for his car to be collected after Ageas 
told him he had the option to collect the salvage. So I cant  say that Ageas actions affected 
Mr Is ability  to reclaim  the salvage.  And I wouldnt expect Ageas to hold off from disposing of 
the salvage indefinitely due to the associated costs.  
In the normal  event, the insurer is normally entitled  to deduct from its settlement offer what it 
would have been able to sell the salvage  for. But as no settlement was made,  then this 
wouldnt apply in Mr Is case.  Instead, Ageas paid the finance company the salvage value. 
I think the finance company has first claim on any payment as it owns the car until the 
finance agreement  is completed. So I cant say Ageas was wrong in paying the salvage 
value to the finance company. 
Mr I said Ageas had pretended to not know his car was on finance. But Mr Is car was on 
finance and so I cant see that any confusion  about  this caused him any loss. This is 
because Ageas would always have paid the finance  company first. 
Mr I said he could have got more for the salvaged parts.  But I cant  say that this is correct as 
the parts werent sold by the authorised treatment facility. So I cant say what they would 
have brought.  Ageas  said it calculated the salvage  value as 10% of the cars  pre-loss market 
value. I think this was fair in the circumstances given  the nature of the damage to the car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758747