K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Equifax Limited (EL) holds  inaccurate information about him on his 
credit file.
background
Mr D says he tried to buy an item on credit. He says when the store  processed  his 
application it did a credit check and then decided  to deny him credit due to having a poor 
credit record. And he says the same thing happened  on another  occasion shortly afterwards 
involving the same  business.   
Mr D also says the store told him it had carried out a credit check  on him with EL. He says 
he phoned EL to ask why it was holding his personal  data at all and why that data was 
wrong. And he says his credit report shows he doesnt have any debts.
EL says its records show Mr D contacted it on 9 September  2018 to query why hed been 
refused credit by the store in question. It says the information showing on a credit  report is 
stored as supplied by the lender. It says it cant see any adverse information, such  as 
arrears or defaults on Mr Ds credit report. It says records show  he isnt on the Electoral  
Register at his current address. And it says this couldve  had an impact on the stores  
decision.
EL also says when  someone applies for credit, it shows the lender the details listed  for the 
borrower at the address given on the borrowers application. It says the lender looks at that 
data, as well as other information  on the application, for example the borrowers salary and 
then decides whether  or not to offer credit. And it says to find out why he was refused credit 
Mr D should contact the lender directly for an explanation of its decision.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions. So, the matters  been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
When consumers apply  for financial products, theres generally  wording  in the contract  
documents authorising the relevant business to share information about  the transaction  with 
the credit  reference  agencies. This means  it isnt a breach  of data protection  law for credit  
reference agencies  to receive and share  with third parties financial information about 
consumers.
I can understand Mr D being  unhappy that his application for credit  was declined on two 
separate occasions by the same  store group  over a period or around two weeks.  I see the 
relevant store carried out credit  checks on Mr D with EL before it declined his applications  for 
credit. But this doesnt necessarily mean  the decision to decline Mr D credit was the result of 
information contained in ELs credit  report on him.
Ref: DRN45840152ELs told us it cant see any adverse  information on Mr Ds credit  report,  such  as arrears  or 
defaults and I also cant see any information  of this kind on the copy  of Mr Ds credit  report 
that Ive seen. So, if EL wasnt holding any adverse information about Mr D at the relevant 
time it must  follow that it wasnt holding any inaccurate adverse information.
I also think ELs right to say lenders generally  base their decisions whether or not to provide 
credit partly on other  factors  such as their own internal credit  scoring  criteria,  rather than 
basing these decisions solely  on the contents of a credit report  on the borrower. 
I see the store that declined Mr D credit told him an application may be rejected for reasons 
other than information  from a credit reference agency. For example, the applicant may not 
have passed its internal  credit score; the information provided may be inconsistent; or there 
may be a specific internal  lending rule that results in the credit application being declined.
So, from everything Ive seen I cant conclude EL had inaccurate  adverse information about 
Mr D on his credit file at the relevant time, or that the contents of his credit  report were the 
cause of him being declined credit. And this means  I cant  fairly and reasonably uphold his 
complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Equifax Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
              
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584015