K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited asked  him to pay a balance which 
hes already paid.
background
Mr M previously owed  a debt in relation to a credit card account  which  he says was paid in 
full under a debt management plan.
In or around September 2016 the debt was sold to Link. The balance  advised to Link on the 
debt sale was £115.49.
Mr M says the balance advised to Link was incorrect. He contacted Link to dispute the 
balance and provided it with information from his debt management plan.
Mr M is unhappy  that Link has ignored the information hes provided. To resolve his case he 
wants confirmation that his account has been paid in full. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt that Link hadnt provided an adequate level of 
service to Mr M and that it couldve  done more to address the disputed account balance  with 
the original credit card provider. The investigator recommended that Link should close  the 
account and pay compensation  to Mr M.
Link didnt agree. It said the statements  it received from the credit card provider showed that 
it hadnt made an error by contacting Mr M about  the outstanding balance.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says that he paid the debt in full through his debt management plan. He accepts that 
Link acted in good faith when it contacted  him based on the account balance  it was provided 
with on the debt sale. But hes unhappy that Link failed to take account of any of the 
information he provided which showed that the debt had been paid in full.
Link has said it relied on the information provided on the debt sale and that the information 
provided to Mr Ms debt management  plan was incorrect and less than the actual 
outstanding balance.
Ive looked at all of the information relating to the account balance, including the statements 
from the credit card provider and the statements from the debt management  plan. Ive also 
taken account  of the payments made by Mr M whilst he was in the debt management plan. 
Its clear that the credit card provider made some changes to the outstanding balance during  
the debt management plan. Looking  at the balance  which was notified to the debt 
management plan,  Im satisfied that Mr M has paid this off.
The credit card provider notified  Link of a different balance. Link is entitled to rely on the 
information provided so I cant  say it did anything wrong when it contacted Mr M and asked 
him to pay the balance.
Ref: DRN46596752Looking at everything thats  happened,  and whilst  I cant say that Link made an error in 
contacting Mr M, I dont think that Link treated  Mr M fairly when he first contacted  them to 
query the outstanding balance. I can see that Mr M provided Link with information  from his 
debt management  plan which showed  that the credit  card provider had given a different 
balance to the debt management plan and that he had made sufficient payments to clear 
that balance. I think  that Link could have  done more here by investigating the anomalies with 
the balance. I havent seen anything  to show that Link contacted  the credit  card provider. 
Because of this, I dont think Link treated Mr M fairly  from a customer  service perspective.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Link Financial Outsourcing Limited should:
Close the account and provide written confirmation to Mr M.
Remove any adverse  information relating to the account from Mr Ms credit  file from 
September 2016 and backdate the settlement date
Pay Mr M compensation of £100
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4659675