K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (British  Gas)  told her to buy a new 
boiler when it wasnt  needed under her homecare  agreement.
Mr C has dealt with the complaint  throughout on Miss Hs behalf. 
background
Ms H and Mr C live together. Their boiler is covered by a home emergency cover policy with 
British Gas in Ms Hs sole name. In September of last year,  the couple were  experiencing 
issues with their boiler. Five visits were made to resolve the issue,  and various parts of the 
boiler were replaced. During the sixth visit, the engineer  replaced  the PCB and advised Mr C 
that he should replace the boiler. 
Mr C says this was because the pressure kept on dropping. But the day after the new boiler 
was fitted, the same  thing happened  again.  So, he said getting a new boiler hadnt solved 
the problem. He feels he and Miss H were forced  into buying  a new boiler when they didnt 
need one. He said once the boiler  had been  fitted,  an engineer  told him the pressure issue 
was unrelated to the boiler meaning they hadnt needed to replace their boiler  in first place. 
British Gas explained the advice to replace the boiler was given due to it being on a 
restricted parts list since 2013, and not because of the pressure issue. They explained that 
various parts of the boiler had been changed, and that the engineers who had attended had 
been thorough  with their checks.  They said the advice to replace the boiler wouldnt have 
been due to the loss of pressure as there  were no leaks present and the necessary parts to 
repair the boiler were  available.  The advice  was given as a recommendation in case the 
boiler broke  down in the winter and the parts to fix it couldnt be sourced. British  Gas said 
that was a worst case scenario but felt it was excellent advice to give.  
But they did admit  that a number of visits were made to the property during September 2018 
taking up a lot of time, and so offered £250  as compensation. Mr C wants  further  
compensation and an apology as he feels he shouldnt have been told to replace the boiler. 
Hes adamant he was told the boiler  had to be replaced and that the engineer  would arrange  
a quote but didnt. He feels there  was nothing wrong  with the boiler so he shouldnt have 
been told to get a new one, and that he was topping up the pressure himself from 
mid-September, but didnt  report it as he was waiting  for an appointment to be set up so an 
engineer could give a quote.  
Our investigator thought British Gas offer was fair. He couldnt  find that the advice given to 
replace the boiler was misleading or unsuitable as the boiler was around  17 years old and on 
the restricted parts list. He also explained  that the recommendation was given when the PCB 
was being replaced, and not while the pressure  was too low. While he did agree fewer  visits 
could have been made and that the £250  was fair, he couldnt  find enough to suggest  the 
advice to replace  the boiler was because of the drop in pressure. 
Mr C disagrees  and so the case has been passed  to me for review. 
Ref: DRN40124072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  through everything, I can see an engineer visited Mr C on five different 
occasions to resolve  an issue  with the boiler. Different parts  were  replaced during these 
visits, and the problem with the pressure was eventually resolved by 21 September.  Another 
engineer attended and replaced the boilers PCB on 25 September.  It was on this occasion 
the engineer recommended the boiler  be replaced. 
The boiler was replaced in November,  and the pressure dropped  again.  An engineer 
attended and said the issue was due to a problem with the drain away valve. This is when 
Mr C felt he had been misadvised into buying  a new boiler. 
The engineer has said he doesnt recall discussing pressure loss as the reason to replace 
the boiler, but because it was an older model and may struggle in the winter  months with 
some parts being  on the restricted list. 
As I wasnt present during  this visit I dont know for certain  what was said. So I must  base  
my decision  on what  I believe is most likely  to have happened. 
Given the boilers age, the fact it was on the restricted parts list, and the engineer who said 
to replace the boiler did so during the visit the PCB was replaced, I think its likely the advice 
was given in case  the boiler  failed during the winter,  rather than it being due to the pressure 
dropping. 
British Gas have  explained  that regarding the loss of pressure, the outside valve would have 
been used by the engineer fitting  the boiler and so a leak may have been  caused then. It 
also would  have been checked over by the engineers on the previous visits to check for any 
leaks. In any event,  this was repaired.  
Under Miss Hs policy, a boiler of that age wouldnt be covered for replacement had it broken 
down. I understand  it hadnt fully broken down at the time, but it appears  as though the 
advice given was more cautionary rather than an instruction. Mr C didnt have to replace the 
boiler, but I can understand why he wouldve relied  on the advice given by the engineer.  
Overall, because I havent seen anything to show me the engineer told Mr C to replace the 
boiler solely because  of the pressure  issue, Im unable to say British Gas should pay any 
further compensation in relation to this. 
I do however agree  the service  provided could have been better given the amount of time 
taken to repair the boiler and for British  Gas failure to book a quotation appointment for Mr 
C, but I feel the £250 offered is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Ref: DRN40124073Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4012407