K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy to her and her late husband,  Mr S. I extend my late condolences to Mrs S for her 
loss. For simplicity,  Ill largely refer to Mrs and Mr S during this decision. 
background
Mrs and Mr S took a mortgage  with RBS in March  2006. Mrs and Mr S took out a PPI policy  
to protect  their mortgage in December 2008. They paid a monthly amount for the policy, 
which provided cover if either  person couldnt work  because of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint for the part of the policy that covered Mr S. But 
we did uphold the complaint about  that part of the policy  that covered Mrs S. RBS has 
already paid back those premiums  that Mrs S paid plus interest.  Mrs S thinks  she should 
receive all of the premiums back because  the whole policy  was miss-sold. So the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached the same  outcome  as our adjudicator and for the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
I dont doubt that Mrs S has given us her best recollections of the events of 2008, although 
her wider  testimony is that she recalls little of the transaction. Ive thought carefully about 
what Mrs S has said, including that she doesnt  think they agreed to the PPI. Bank of 
Scotland has denied this.  
 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened over ten years ago, so Im not 
surprised that neither  RBS nor Mrs S has been able to provide any of the specific sale 
documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to consider,  I need to 
make my decision  based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do 
have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on what I think most  
likely happened. 
In this case Mrs S told us that Mr S held excellent  sick pay arrangements  through  his 
employer. Ive noted that the policy that was sold to them only covered them  if they were 
made unemployed. This speaks  to some level of discussion having  taken place  about  their 
circumstances. Ive also considered that the consumers had held the mortgage  for 18 
months before they took out the PPI that protected  the payments. So it seems unlikely that 
theyd have thought they had to take the cover  to keep borrowing they already held. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows RBS didnt make them  aware the PPI was optional  
or failed  to get their agreement to the PPI. So whilst I acknowledge that things couldve 
happened just as Mrs S said,  considering how long ago the sale was in this case,  I havent  
seen sufficient evidence  to be able to uphold  this complaint on these points.  So having 
Ref: DRN44632752considered all the submissions I have  received  in this case, I think its more  likely that RBS 
wouldve made Mrs S and Mr S aware that the PPI was optional  and that they chose to take 
it, even though they may not remember that now, many years  later.  
RBS said it did not recommend  the PPI to Mrs S and Mr S. This means that it did not have to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for them.  It did have  to give them 
information sufficient  that they could make an informed choice about the policy they were  
buying. I dont  know how that was achieved  at the time, but looking at the circumstances of 
Mrs S and Mr S in 1999,  I dont think that better  information would have put Mr S off his part 
of the policy. I say this because:
Mr S was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a claim. 
Mrs S told us Mr S wouldve got full sick pay for a whole year if he was unwell. Maybe  for 
that reason the policy only provided cover  in the event that Mr S was made unemployed. 
Mrs S told us they had no other means they could have relied  on if Mr S lost his job. The 
PPI policy wouldve covered Mr S if he lost his job for up to 12 months. So, considering 
all of this, and the potentially serious  consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on 
their home, I think Mr S couldve  found  the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been  comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable. 
It seems  most likely that Mrs S worked less than 16 hours a week  and so wouldnt  have  
been eligible for the protection  the PPI might  otherwise have offered her. So RBS has 
already refunded to her that part of the policy  that covered her. 
I have noted the policy  booklet  that most probably applied to the sale.  It says, If two of You 
are applying for the mortgage together, You can choose either single  or joint Mortgage 
Loanguard. The policy was severable at the point of sale. 
I think that most likely  Mr S chose to have cover for himself, and, as Ive explained above, I 
dont think that better  information from RBS would have put him off the part of the policy  that 
covered him. But I do think that better information  would have put Mrs S off the part of the 
policy that covered  her. Because of this I think that RBS has been fair in only refunding  that 
part of the policy that pertained to Mrs S.  
Ref: DRN44632753my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold the complaint against The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc in respect of the late Mr Ss part of the policy.  I do uphold the complaint about 
Mrs Ss part of the policy. But if that redress  has already  been  paid, I make  no further award 
against The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4463275