K822xcomplaint
Mr B says WorldPay  (UK) Limited (WorldPay) didnt do enough  to defend  a chargeback  
against him and that they didnt act with reasonable skill and care.
background 
Mr B represents a limited  company but for ease  I will refer to Mr B throughout this decision.
In December 2017 Mr B sold a ring. The customer wasnt happy with the quality  of the ring 
and a few days  later he complained to Mr B telling  him he like to return  it. 
Mr B offered  a repair but instead the customer contacted WorldPay and lodged a 
chargeback request. WorldPay contacted  Mr B in March 2018  asking him to defend the 
charge with further evidence. He provided this on 23 March.
He didnt hear anything else until 15 August 2018  when he was told that the chargeback had 
been settled by the chargeback scheme  administrator and in the customers  favour.
Mr B says:
WorldPay should have asked him to provide an independent report to counter the 
report that his customer provided
the delay in response from WorldPay  was unreasonable and led to him not being  
able to recover the ring from the customer whilst also having to refund the money 
hed received for the ring
WorldPay should have given him advice  to help him in his defence and should  have 
recovered the ring for him
He therefore referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided  her opinion. 
She explained that the chargeback was administered by the card scheme provider and not 
by WorldPay so she wasnt  able to review the decision the card scheme  provider had made. 
But she was able to review whether WorldPay had been fair and reasonable in the way in 
which they had processed the chargeback request.  She was satisfied that they had followed 
the correct procedure as theyd written  to Mr B to ask for his submissions  so they could  try to 
defend the chargeback.
She said that the rules allowed Mr Bs customer to raise a chargeback even if he still had the 
goods so she couldnt say WorldPay made an error. She noted  that Mr B had explained the 
customer had tried to return the ring but hed not accepted the return  as he was concerned 
that to do so would be an admission of guilt.
But the investigator did note that WorldPay had accepted thered been an administration  
error that meant they didnt  debit the payment from Mr Bs account until August and she 
thought this was late and that WorldPay should  compensate Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused by the delay.  In the circumstances she thought £100 would 
be reasonable.
WorldPay accepted  the investigators opinion but Mr B didnt. He said the delay in 
WorldPays response meant that he had lost an opportunity to get the ring back  and he was 
upset WorldPay hadnt given him an opportunity to provide his own independent report on 
the rings quality. He therefore asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN48566092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Its the chargeback  scheme administrator, in this case Mastercard, which arbitrates  on the 
dispute between  Mr B and his customer.  WorldPay have no say in the decision and their 
responsibility is to distribute funds; manage the account balance and authorise charges.
So here I am not being asked to make a judgement on the merits of the decision to settle  the 
chargeback in Mr Bs customers  favour. Im only able to consider whether WorldPay have 
been fair and reasonable when playing  their part in the process. 
They were  required to ask for evidence from Mr B and send it to the chargeback scheme  
administrators and they did this. They managed  Mr Bs account balance and the transfer of 
funds appropriately  too. But I dont think it would  be fair to suggest  they had a responsibility 
to advise Mr B or that it would be fair to expect them to recover the ring on his behalf.
I can see that the customer has endeavoured to return the ring and that there  were  some 
communications about setting up a process where the customer could leave the ring in 
trust with Mr B. These  communications  appear  to have still been on going in May 2018  so I 
think Mr B has had the opportunity to get the ring back but hes chosen not to, up to now.  
It appears reasonable to suggest that if Mr B wants the ring back  he could still pursue the 
customer through the courts or contact him directly. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to suggest that was WorldPays responsibility and I dont think the delay in 
communicating the outcome  of the chargeback decision has particularly impacted Mr Bs 
chances of recovering  the ring either.  Theres still an option  to contact the consumer directly 
and presumably still an option  to pursue the consumer through  the courts.
Ive also thought about whether WorldPay shouldve provided Mr B with an opportunity  to 
provide his own independent  evidence. But even if they had I think  it would have  been  
difficult for Mr B to defend the chargeback  successfully as it doesnt seem  to be in dispute 
that the ring wasnt hallmarked and I think  its reasonable to suggest that this in itself would 
be a reason to reject  the product. So Im not persuaded  that an independent  report  would 
have changed  the chargeback scheme  administrators  decision.
WorldPay have accepted that there was some  delay processing the chargeback and I agree 
with the investigator  that in those circumstances  Mr B has been inconvenienced  and kept 
waiting. In the circumstances I think its fair to suggest they should pay Mr B £100 to 
compensate him for this inconvenience.
Ref: DRN48566093my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell WorldPay  (UK) 
Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
their actions have caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4856609