K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2005.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Gs credit card account when he phoned  Capital One to activate the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
 Capital One hasnt been able to provide a recording  of the phone call in which  Mr G 
took out the PPI. I dont think thats  surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago the 
sale took place.  But Ive seen a copy of the script that Capital Ones representative 
would have used.  Based on that, Im satisfied,  on balance,  that the fact that the PPI 
was optional would have been made clear to Mr G, and that hed have needed to 
consent in order  for the cover to be applied  to his account.
 I acknowledge that Mr G says hes never  knowingly taken out PPI, and that hes only 
recently found out that he had it. He says he purposefully  did not knowingly request or 
tick for PPI at the outset of the account.  And hes explained that hes always refused  
PPI when its been offered with other credit. But Im satisfied  that the premiums were  
shown reasonably clearly on Mr Gs monthly  credit card statements. If he hadnt 
wanted the cover, Id have expected him to raise this with Capital One at the time. And 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that he did so.
 Taking everything into account,  I think Capital One made Mr G aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it  although  I can understand why he may no longer 
remember this.
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for him. But it still had a responsibility  to give him enough information for him 
to decide for himself  whether the cover was right for him.
Ref: DRN48347382 Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mr G chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations  for example provisions about unusual employment situations or existing 
medical conditions.
 Mr Gs told us hed have been  entitled to six weeks  fully pay, followed by six weeks 
half pay from his employer at the time if hed been  off sick. But the PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. Thats  significantly  longer than Mr G would have been entitled to sick 
pay for. Whats more, the PPI would have paid out in addition  to any payments Mr G 
received from his employer. And he wouldnt have  had to dip into any savings he had 
to make his credit  card repayments. 
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Gs told us that friends and family could have helped with his 
monthly credit card payments if necessary. But circumstances can change, so I cant 
be sure that Mr Gs friends and family would have been in a position to help if the need 
had arisen. Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI could have been useful for 
Mr G.
 Mr Gs said he was under financial pressure, and couldnt afford the additional  cost of 
the PPI. Ive thought carefully about this. But Ive borne  in mind that the premiums for 
the PPI were shown  on Mr Gs monthly credit card statements. If hed found that the 
PPI cost was, in practice, more than he could afford,  I think  its likely hed have 
contacted Capital One with a view to cancelling the policy.  Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that he did so. And I can see that he kept the cover throughout the time that he had the 
card.
 On balance, I think that Mr G decided to take out the cover because he wanted the 
peace of mind that it provided and he was willing to pay for it  even if hes 
understandably forgotten that now. And taking everything into account,  Im not 
convinced hed have  made  a different decision if Capital  One had provided better 
information. On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4834738