K822xcomplaint
Mr F and Mrs W are both directors  of D, a limited company.  Theyre  also beneficiaries of Ds 
insurance policy. They complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined Ds claim for 
subsidence at their home. Mrs W also complains that shes  been caused  a great deal of 
trouble and upset  due to safety concerns at the property, and the time that shes  had to 
spend on this matter  all during a period whilst she was pregnant  and with a new-born 
baby.
background 
Mr F and Mrs Ws home is the basement floor of a house thats been converted into flats. All 
four floors are occupied  by the propertys freeholders  who are directors  of D, the company 
set up to manage the property. The property is insured by AXA, and the insurance policy is 
in Ds name.
There are boundary walls  around the property, which also form part of a small bin store area. 
To enter the boundary theres a step up from the public pathway. Theres  then a platform  (or 
pathway) leading to a set of stairs that in turn lead to the ground floor entrance.  To the right 
of that platform is step down to another platform (or pathway) that in turn leads to the stairs 
down to the basement flat. Underneath the platform and stairs that lead to the ground floor 
entrance is a store  cupboard belonging to the basement flat. The stairs  that lead to the 
basement flat run along, and are attached to, the store cupboard;  and attached to the 
opposite side of those  stairs is a wall retaining soil.
In November 2016 the directors arranged  for a surveyor to inspect the property due to the 
partial collapse of the stairs that lead to the basement  floor; and cracking  in the basement  
flats lobby, to the boundary walls, and to the ground  floor entrance,  path, and stairs. 
The surveyor reported that the property  was suffering from significant subsidence, and the 
stairs leading to the basement were dangerous. He suspected  a tree outside  the property 
was the cause; and recommended his report be forward to AXA (as the insurer)  and the 
cracking be monitored for a period of time to confirm his observations.
The directors reported a claim  to AXA, but in January 2017 its loss adjusters declined  the 
claim based on a visual  inspection. The loss adjusters concluded that the damage  to the 
main building, which included the stairs, was being  caused by a combination of building 
defects. It also explained  that although  it thought  the boundary walls and paths had, on 
balance, been  damaged  by subsidence,  these areas were not covered under the policy 
unless the main building was damaged at the same time by the same cause.
After a period  of liaising  with the council regarding the tree, and following  Mrs Ws further 
research, she was put in contact with another surveyor  someone  who specialises in 
subsidence. The directors appointed him as a representative. 
In August  2017  the representative contacted  AXAs loss adjusters and explained that he 
believed the stairs to the basement flat to be suffering from subsidence  and he pointed 
towards the cracking in the basement  flats entrance lobby.  He requested  that further 
investigation, including monitoring, be undertaken.
Ref: DRN48834232The loss adjusters remained satisfied that its original conclusions were correct  and a visual  
inspection was proportionate, rather than intrusive investigations.  Nonetheless, the loss 
adjusters agreed  to a six month monitoring  programme, to help understand the situation 
better, and to either  prove or disprove its view on the main  building. 
A third party  business was instructed  for the monitoring. Level monitoring was undertaken to 
20 points across the site (numbered numerically), and crack monitoring was undertaken to 
three cracks:   A, B, and C. Cracks  A and B are on an external wall beneath the stairs that 
lead to the ground floor entrance, and crack C is on an internal wall of the store cupboard 
underneath those stairs.
In December 2017 Mrs W made AXAs loss adjusters  aware that she was over four months  
pregnant and they needed to get their home ready  for their baby, this included undertaking 
works at the property  not related to the subsidence issues. Mrs W expressed concern that 
builders would not be able to safely access the property, or be willing  to provide building 
guarantees due to the ongoing subsidence  claim. Mrs W also highlighted concern  about 
accessing the property safely whilst pregnant and later with a buggy. Mrs W said that if 
monitoring had been undertaken from the outset the claim  would have progressed;  she 
stressed that all works needed to be completed  before their baby arrived.
The directors representative commented that the most recent  monitoring  readings confirmed 
subsidence movement  at the property  and he thought there  were  now grounds for the claim 
to be accepted. However, the loss adjusters disagreed with his interpretation of the readings. 
It said the data was too immature and would prefer to complete the agreed six months 
programme before making  a final decision.
The loss adjusters also noted that it took the directors over six months to challenge its initial  
assessment, and on receipt of their challenge  it quickly agreed a monitoring programme. So 
the loss adjusters didnt consider it should  be held responsible  for that period of delay. The 
loss adjusters also explained that if monitoring had been undertaken from the outset, this 
would have been for a year, so it didnt consider the claim to be any further  behind.
Nonetheless, due to Mrs Ws personal  circumstances,  the loss adjusters agreed to revisit the 
property, and along with the readings,  compare the damage against  the photos taken a year 
earlier. The visit took place in February 2018, and the directors representative was present. 
Because the parties were  unable to agree about  the main building  and the next steps, they 
agreed that they would  submit final reports to AXA, to allow AXA to consider the opposing 
views. To summarise:
Both parties agreed  that the stairs  to the basement flat, the stairs to the ground floor 
entrance, and the path directly above  the basement  store  cupboard (i.e. the store  
cupboard roof) all formed  part of the main  building. However, there  seemed  to be 
some disagreement  about  whether the other  platforms  should  be considered 
pathways or part of the stairs  (the latter being  part of the main  building).
Both parties thought the readings showed  cyclical  subsidence to the boundary walls 
and bin store area. But the representative  also thought that the store cupboard  roof 
and the platforms  in dispute, were  suffering from the same subsidence given the 
close proximity  of the tree. He recommended  borehole tests be undertaken to 
determine the presence of clay soils affected  by tree root induced shrinkage.
Ref: DRN48834233However, the loss adjusters concluded  that the store cupboard  roof, the stairs to the 
basement flat, and the stairs to the ground floor entrance were not suffering from 
subsidence. But rather it said consequential  stress damage had occurred due to 
links with the boundary walls and paths  and also separate  unrelated lateral  
movement to the retaining wall, due to defects. 
The loss adjusters highlighted online images  of the property from 2011 which  appear  
to show cracks A and B when the nearby tree was immature and before concern was 
raised about the boundary  walls. It also said the crack monitoring results  were more 
akin to thermal movement  to an existing plane  of weakness,  than typical  cyclical  
subsidence movement.  The representative agreed that there wasnt  any sign of 
subsidence movement  yet from the monitoring results around this area,  but he 
concluded the monitoring needed  to continue over the summer months before 
determining whether there was, or wasnt, subsidence at these points.
The loss adjusters remained of the opinion that the retaining wall had failed due to a 
build-up of hydrostatic  pressure  in the retained area of ground.  The representative 
accepted that the loss adjusters may be correct about defects to the retaining wall. 
But he said investigations  were needed  to corroborate the loss adjusters views as 
there may also be insured causes contributing to the retaining wall failure, such  as 
landslip of the retained soil  impacting the basement stairs. But the loss adjusters 
concluded that any contributory  insured events causing damaging  to the retaining 
wall should be recognised as secondary to the movement caused by defects.
The loss adjusters explained that because subsidence related movement hadnt 
been recorded to the main building through the monitoring, there wasnt any 
justification for intrusive, or further, investigations. 
AXA subsequently declined the claim, maintaining the loss adjusters position. AXA set out 
its final response to the claim and complaint  in March  2018.
Mrs W then wrote to AXA and the loss adjusters. She explained that all parties now accept 
the stairs  form part of the main building, and the loss adjusters also accept that monitoring 
points 4-5 and 16-20  show  cyclical  subsidence.  She also said, based  on the readings, the 
same conclusions must also be made about monitoring point 15. Mrs W also set out that 
point 16 forms part of the first set of steps  into the ground floor entrance;  and point 15 is 
located on the top part of the stairs that lead to the basement flat. So she concluded  the 
main building  i.e. the steps at points  15 and 16  was being damaged by the same 
subsidence that was damaging the boundary  walls and bin area (points 4, 5, 17-20).  
Essentially, this would  mean the damage would be covered under Ds policy.
The loss adjusters clarified  with AXA that it considered points 15 and 16 to be pathways, and 
not part of the set of stairs that lead to either the ground floor or the basement  flat. AXA 
advised Mrs W to contact  our service if she remained unhappy.
Ref: DRN48834234Mr F and Mrs W contacted our service in August  2018, setting  out the following issues:
The claim has been dismissed unreasonably on two occasions without thorough 
investigation; and the loss adjusters reached conclusions  without  supporting 
evidence, whilst  theres strong  evidence supporting a valid claim.
AXA and its loss adjusters have provided poor customer service  and complaint  
handling during the claim process,  including  poor communication and delays 
responding to emails.
Tests  were promised at the start of the claim, but these werent  carried out. Soil 
investigations could  have still been carried out when the claim was reopened in 
August 2017,  but this didnt happen  and it was too late towards the end of the 
monitoring programme due to the time of the year.
The monitoring was promised at six week  intervals,  but it was delayed and 
infrequent; and the reports  werent  sent to them for up-to four weeks.
They were promised  the claim would be expedited due to Mrs Ws pregnancy, but it 
wasnt  and despite Mrs Ws pregnancy, the loss adjusters still refused to carry out 
investigations to determine the cause of damage, or visit the property. Only when 
Mrs W complained  and with her continual pressure did the loss adjusters agree  to 
visit the property, but the visit didnt take place for a further eight weeks.
The loss adjusters and AXA refused to confirm that the stairs formed part of the main 
building until the claim was declined a second time. The loss adjusters mislabelled  
property areas as pathways rather than stairs,  and selectively interpreted the 
monitoring results to support the declinature  omitting point 15.
When Mrs W informed  AXA about  the loss adjusters selective interpretation  of the 
monitoring results, it refused to discuss the matter and advised her to come  to our 
service.
The process of trying  to get AXA to honour the claim has been  upsetting,  stressful, 
and frustrating. Furthermore, moving forward without  AXA is difficult   they need to 
establish the cause of the damage before  the council will deal with the tree, and 
before they can complete the repairs and the others works at their property.
The stairs to the basement  flat remain dangerous, particularly when carrying a baby 
or a pram. Mrs W says that if the claim had been dealt with promptly  and fairly when 
it was first made, the works  would  have been completed before their baby arrived.
Mrs W has had to spend  lots of time researching,  and writing  correspondence, whilst 
at the same time trying to care for a new-born baby. Her time has been taken away  
from her family at an important time, and this has been very upsetting.  
Mr F and Mrs W also told us they intended  to go ahead with further investigations in order  to 
conclusively determine the cause of damage. They said they would  engage a structural 
engineer, instruct  the business conducting the monitoring  to continue, and arrange the 
necessary borehole tests and soil investigations.
Ref: DRN48834235In January 2019 Mrs W sent us their further report. It contained the following observations 
based on readings that had now been  taken over 13 months:
The recorded movements on cracks  A and C is irrefutable evidence of subsidence  
affecting the main  building.
Monitoring point six has exhibited clear  seasonal movements. This point is located on 
the external store cupboard wall in line with its rear wall, near the stairs  leading to the 
basement flat  i.e. on the opposite  side to the crack monitoring. This point is a direct 
measure of foundation movement  and is unequivocal and indisputable evidence  
that the main  building has suffered  from subsidence.  
The loss adjusters have concluded  that the retaining wall has failed due to a build-up 
of hydrostatic pressure.  However, there are weep holes at low level, and theres  no 
evidence of water seeping through the wall. The concept of hydrostatic pressure 
build-up being the cause is flawed given that weep holes  have been  installed to 
prevent this.
Theres severe damage to the boundary walls,  retaining wall, and the basement flat 
stairs; and slight damage to the main  dwelling.  The cause of the damage is clay 
shrinkage subsidence due to the tree outside the property  to argue otherwise 
ignores the facts  and relies entirely on opinion. 
The complaint was then passed to one of our investigators, who asked AXA to comment  on 
this further report.  AXAs  loss adjusters reiterated its previous observations, but of note it 
said:
It remained of the view that the damage to the main building  related to a different 
cause at a different  time to the subsidence affecting the boundary  walls, bin store 
area, and paths  again highlighting the 2011 images.
If monitoring point six was moving due to cyclical  subsidence (as opposed to being 
consequential stress damage  or damage caused  by the retaining walls defects) 
there would  be similar  movement to the other points located nearer to the store  
cupboards foundation,  but there isnt. 
It remained of the view that the retaining wall has moved  laterally, due to a build-up 
of water pressure. It said the wall was unfit to support the ground behind  it, pointed 
towards the material and the potential for moisture pockets to build-up, and signs 
moisture had passed through the wall historically.
It agreed that a bore hole located at the foot of the basement stairs showed evidence 
of clay desiccation  and live plane  tree roots. However, in view of the above points, it 
didnt agree that this evidenced progressive tree root induced clay shrinkage 
subsidence to the main  building or retaining wall.
It also said that tree root trespass  has clearly been identified from the local authority 
street tree and that this vegetative influence is causing clear  progressive damage to 
their boundary walls  and paths  and AXAs claim decision doesnt prevent the 
directors from seeking the removal of this tree by the local authority.
Ref: DRN48834236Our investigator considered the submissions of both parties  and overall, she was more  
persuaded by Mr F and Mrs Ws most recent  structural  engineer report, that there was 
subsidence affecting the main building. So she said AXA should settle the claim,  and 
reimburse the costs  incurred in respect of obtaining expert opinion.
AXA accepted our investigators  outcome.  But whilst Mrs W was happy the claim would now 
be dealt with, she was unhappy that their concerns about the handling  of the claim had not 
been addressed.  Mrs W said she had spent over 200 hours on the matter, and calculated  
the cost of her time to be £13,750. She also reiterated her experience over the last two to 
three years and their personal circumstances.
Our investigator went on to ask AXA about compensation, and it offered Mrs W £750. Our 
investigator concluded that overall,  this amount was fair. Mrs W disagreed  and reiterated 
various points noted above. Because Mr F and Mrs W havent agreed,  the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has already  agreed to our investigators  conclusion that the claim should be accepted, 
so I dont need to make  a finding on this point. However, given Mr F and Mrs Ws concerns 
are about  how the claim was handled and thats  directly linked to the liability  decisions,  Ill 
share my observations.
This service is generally reliant on the technical expertise of others. In respect of insurance 
claims, if theres a dispute about the cause of damage,  we consider the submissions of the 
parties and determine  what, on balance, were more  persuaded by. We tend to place more 
weight on those considered to be industry  experts. Here  we have strongly  opposing views 
from individuals who are all suitably qualified and credible. In my opinion, their arguments 
are all well-reasoned and none are obviously wrong.  But ultimately, Ds insurance policy  
covers subsidence, and given two industry experts  have  now concluded subsidence is 
damaging the main  building, overall I agree its fair and reasonable for the claim to be 
accepted. 
The important point  I make though  in respect  of how the claim was handled, is that Im not 
persuaded the loss adjusters overall liability decisions were  wrong or unreasonable. 
Likewise, AXA was entitled to rely on the loss adjusters  expert opinion.
Nonetheless, in my view AXA and its loss adjusters could have done some things differently.
Given the apparent  safety concerns and the loss adjusters acceptance that subsidence was 
likely affecting the boundary walls  and paths;  Im persuaded  that monitoring ought to have 
been undertaken from the outset, so the loss adjusters  could confirm  its observations  
regarding the main building and retaining wall. It shouldnt,  in my view, have taken a 
challenge from the directors representative to prompt  this action.
Ref: DRN48834237AXA and its loss adjusters state  that the monitoring would have been undertaken for a year 
had it been agreed from the outset, so the initial declinature based on the visual  inspection  
didnt delay matters,  i.e. six months later,  six months  monitoring  was agreed.  But although 
I accept the claim wasnt actually delayed; I consider it likely  that the loss adjusters  would  
have been more informed had the monitoring been  undertaken for a year,  covering  all the 
seasons, as opposed to just six months. Furthermore, although  the claim decision wasnt 
delayed, the directors  had to continue the monitoring exercise beyond the decision to 
account for the whole  year. As such,  Im satisfied  that the decision not to undertake  
monitoring from the outset  did have an impact on them.
Having said all that, neither the six months monitoring results or the thirteen months results 
changed the loss adjusters conclusions, so the outcome of the claim wasnt  impacted by it 
not undertaking monitoring from the outset, or for a longer period. As such, its not likely in 
my view, that the works  would  have been completed before the baby arrived even if the 
monitoring or other investigations  had been done sooner. If a years monitoring had been 
undertaken from the outset, that period would have  likely been  followed by the directors 
obtaining another opinion,  and then referring a complaint to this service.
Given the loss adjusters  observations following the visual inspection, Im persuaded it was 
reasonable to not incur further costs by undertaking borehole  tests  and soil investigations 
until the six months monitoring had been completed. Towards the end of that period the 
directors representative recommended the monitoring be extended, as well as further 
investigations. But given  the impasse  and strongly  opposing views, I dont consider it 
unreasonable that AXA recommended  the complaint be referred  to this service for a 
determination on the next steps. Im not persuaded further monitoring, tests, or 
investigations would have moved  the parties  any further forward at that stage.  
Also, having  reviewed the diagrams and photos  we have been given by both parties, and the 
diagram provided  by the third party that undertook the monitoring, I consider  it reasonable to 
consider points 15 and 16 (and the disputed  platforms) to be part of the paths  that lead to 
the stairs,  rather than part of the stairs themselves.
In respect of the overall claim handling  and timeliness, having  reviewed  the correspondence 
between the parties  my view is that the loss adjusters engaged with Mrs W and the directors 
representative well, and gave fair consideration to opposing opinions. I appreciate Mrs W 
would have liked some  things to have happened quicker, and I accept some things could 
have happened  quicker  but Im also mindful of the complex nature of this claim and the 
number of parties involved. So I dont  by any means consider the claim to have been  
handled poorly.
I understand why the repairs became urgent  for Mr F and Mrs W given her pregnancy,  and I 
dont doubt that dealing  with the claim placed  a great strain on Mrs W and her family in their 
particular circumstances.  I also understand her safety concerns during that time. But for me 
to reasonably decide that AXA is responsible for the situation they experienced, or for the 
time Mrs W spent on the matter, I would need to be persuaded that the claim was wrongly  
declined, which Im not  or poorly handled,  which overall, other  than not undertaking 
monitoring from the outset, isnt the case.
Having thought about matters carefully, Ive decided £750 compensation fairly acknowledges 
the delays that AXA or its loss adjusters can reasonably be held responsible for. There are a 
number of beneficiaries to Ds policy,  but Im satisfied that the compensation should be paid 
to Mr F and Mrs W  as they are the freeholders mainly impacted here.
Ref: DRN48834238In terms of the professional fees that were incurred by either D or the freeholders after the 
claim was made  I agree these costs  should be reimbursed given they were incurred to 
challenge AXAs declinature, and as a result the claim has now been accepted. 
However, AXA isnt responsible for the professional  fees of the original  surveyor as this cost 
was incurred before the claim had been made.  Although I understand why the directors  
sought professional  opinion,  it wasnt necessary in terms of contacting  AXA about the 
damage and to make a claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  I appreciate Mr F and Mrs W will 
remain somewhat disappointed, but my final decision is AXA Insurance  UK Plc should:
settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms; 
reimburse the professional fees incurred  by D or the policy beneficiaries  after the 
claim was made;  
pay Mr F and Mrs W £750  for the trouble  and upset caused by the delays during the 
claim investigations
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs W, 
on behalf of themselves and D, to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883423