K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited  acted  unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with Mrs Ls claim under a private health insurance policy.  She wants  to be refunded 
the premiums paid for pregnancy and childbirth cover and for Aviva to pay for her to see a 
specialist and physiotherapy.
background
Mr and Mrs L had the benefit of a private health insurance policy with Aviva  taken  out 
through their company,  which included pregnancy and childbirth cover. Mrs L said that she 
assumed that it covered giving birth itself. But Mrs L later had a traumatic birth experience 
and wanted to see a specialist about  the complications from which  she was suffering. She 
said that Aviva told her that the pregnancy and childbirth cover  didnt  apply to her situation 
and only covered caesarean sections. Mrs L felt the description of the pregnancy and 
childbirth cover was misleading. She also said that complications arose  from haemorrhoids  
and varicose veins  from which she suffered before  becoming pregnant,  but Aviva still 
wouldnt help. Mrs L was unhappy as the wait for NHS treatment was too long and shed had 
to pay for physiotherapy.
Mrs L complained to Aviva. It said that the pregnancy and childbirth covered much more  
than caesarean sections and was part of a package of benefits. Aviva accepted that the 
policy didnt cover treatment required following an assisted delivery. It said that there was an 
exclusion for treatment required as a result  of pregnancy or childbirth (or worsened by 
pregnancy or childbirth, such  as Mrs Ls other conditions); the cover  was for specific  
situations and complications.
Mrs L complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
He said that the policy  didnt cover  complications  arising from the type of birth she went 
through, and this was clearly set out within the terms and conditions. The investigator said 
that it was fair and reasonable to expect consumers to read the policy and it was common to 
have such exclusions.
Mrs L disagreed. She said that she didnt know about the childbirth cover, and her husband 
had mentioned it. Mrs L also said that it was misleading and false advertising to describe the 
cover as pregnancy and childbirth cover, and she had suffered due to the lack of help.  
Aviva said that the section  wasnt called pregnancy and childbirth cover, and the policy 
simply set out what was and wasnt covered. It also said Mrs L hadnt  provided a consent  
form to enable it to get her medical records. The investigator didnt change  his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is about the cover provided under the policy to those who are suffering 
from complications caused by or worsened  by giving birth,  and whether Aviva treated Mrs L 
fairly and reasonably.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN42040942I understand that Mrs L feels that its unreasonable to expect consumers to read the terms 
and conditions of an insurance policy. But its important to do so to understand exactly what  
is and isnt covered,  and to see if the policy is suitable to meet the needs  involved. And the 
policy in this case doesnt offer a specific pregnancy and childbirth cover;  what is does is set 
out what is and isnt covered when a consumer is pregnant  or suffering from a complication 
(or worsened pre-existing medical condition) due to pregnancy or childbirth.
This policy specifically  excludes cover  for pregnancy or childbirth, except for certain 
specified situations. The policy covers several  specific circumstances connected to 
pregnancy and childbirth, but not those in Mrs Ls case (assisted deliveries  involving 
forceps). And I also note that the policy excludes chronic conditions and treatment for 
varicose veins (except in limited circumstances).  As a matter of law, Aviva was right to 
exclude Mrs Ls claim, particularly when it hasnt  received her medical  records.
But was Mrs L misled? As she said she didnt read the terms and conditions of the policy,  I 
cant say that. And I understand  that a broker was involved;  its the brokers  role to ensure  
that the policy was suitable and met the consumers needs. I also note that the policy doesnt 
offer a specific pregnancy and childbirth cover; it just sets out clearly what  is and isnt 
covered.
Is it fair and reasonable for Aviva to apply the strict terms  and conditions  of the policy  to 
Mrs L? I think  that it is. Aviva set out within the policy what it did and didnt cover. Mrs L had 
a broker advising her. Its fair and reasonable to expect Mrs L to read the terms and 
conditions of the policy. While I understand why Mrs L is unhappy,  I cant  say that it was 
unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to explain the policy to her, especially  as it was willing to 
consider her medical  records  if received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my 
decision before  28 March 2020.  
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4204094