K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a Royalties 
Gold packaged account in 2001.
background
Mr and Mrs Hs account history  is as follows:
Opened a joint fee-free account  in 1991,
Converted this to a Royalties Gold account in July 2001,
Migrated to a Select Platinum account  in 2015
Closed the account in July 2018. 
Mr and Mrs Hs Royalties Gold account was migrated to the most comparable  account when 
it was changed  to a Select Platinum account,  and Mr and Mrs H havent made a complaint 
about that. So I havent assessed it as a new sale. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  agree that the Royalties Gold  account 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that RBS mis-sold the Royalties Gold  account  in 2001. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have said they were  told taking out a packaged account would allow them  to 
have a larger overdraft.  Theyve also said they were struggling financially but were  never told 
they could downgrade their account or have an overdraft with a fee-free account.  
Looking at Mr and Mrs Hs account usage,  I can see they first took out an overdraft of £100 
in January 1998. This was then increased  six times over the next two years so that in   
December 1999  the overdraft limit on the account was £1,500. So I think  that Mr and Mrs H 
were aware they could  both have and increase their overdraft limit whilst  having a fee-free 
account. And theres nothing to suggest  they would have believed  this was different in     
July 2001 when they increased their overdraft  by a further £100 and converted the account 
to a Royalties  Gold account. I also cant see that they had any declined applications at the 
time of the upgrade, so I cant  see why they would think they needed  to change their account  
to increase the overdraft further.
Seeing as Mr and Mrs H had an overdraft they regularly  increased on a fee-free account, I 
think its more likely  they were aware they didnt have to have the Royalties Gold account in 
order to continue doing this. So I think its more likely RBS gave Mr and Mrs H a fair choice 
when taking out the Royalties Gold account. And that Mr and Mrs H chose to take out the 
Royalties Gold account, knowing  they didnt have  to.
Mr and Mrs H have said that over the course of having the account,  they experienced 
financial difficulties. Because of this, they feel RBS shouldve told them  they could 
Ref: DRN40141122downgrade their account to reduce their monthly outgoings. While a business  does need  to 
make sure it treats consumers positively and sympathetically if theyre experiencing financial 
difficulties, consumers also need  to let a business know when they start to encounter  
difficulties and I cant see that this happened. Having said this, I think  its more likely Mr and 
Mrs H were aware they could have  a fee-free account with an overdraft.  So I dont think RBS 
needed to remind  them of this after the account  was converted.  
RBS has let us know  that it didnt give Mr and Mrs H a personal recommendation for the 
Royalties Gold account based on their individual  circumstances at the time. And I agree that 
based on everything Ive seen,  no personal recommendation was made. Because of this it 
didnt have to check if the account  was suitable  for them. But it did have to give them  enough 
information so they could  make sure the account was right for them.  
At the time of the sale, the account  included worldwide travel insurance,  breakdown  cover 
(when purchasing  RBS motor insurance),  accidental death cover, 90 day purchase 
protection, payment card protection,  commission free currency  as well as a preferential  
overdraft rate and discounts on loans. As RBS was trying to sell Mr and Mrs H an account  
with an increased  monthly fee, I think its more likely the RBS representative  told them about 
the benefits to make  the account  more attractive  to them. 
I note Mr and Mrs H have explained  that they did not travel  abroad on holiday.  But looking at 
their statements,  I can see Mr and Mrs H made a withdrawal from Turkey  a few months  after 
converting the account so I think that at the time of the upgrade they did travel abroad. So 
its possible the worldwide  travel insurance and the commission  free currency attracted  them  
to the account.  As mentioned previously, they also increased the overdraft limit at the same  
time as converting the account. So I think its likely there was also a conversation about the 
preferential overdraft rate and that Mr and Mrs H felt they could potentially benefit from this. 
And while its possible they werent  told everything  about the account,  I dont think better 
information wouldve  made Mr and Mrs H change their mind about  converting  the account.  
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs H 
chose to take out the Royalties Gold account after having a reasonable idea of what  it 
entailed. So overall, I dont think RBS mis-sold the account to Mr and Mrs H. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4014112