K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Wilson & Co (Motor  Sales) Limited (Wilson)  mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI)  to him when he bought  a car in 2007. 
background
I can see that Mr E was sold just a life and critical illness PPI policy.  So the balance  of his 
loan would have  been repaid if he became very unwell or in the unfortunate event of his 
death. 
Our adjudicator initially thought the complaint  should be upheld because at the time,  she 
thought Mr E didnt  have  any dependants. Wilson  disagreed with that view and sent 
evidence that he may have had a family member. Mr E also told our adjudicator  that he had 
another close family member. Our adjudicator  then looked at the matter again and changed 
her view. After reconsidering the complaint, she didnt think  it should be upheld.  
Mr E didnt agree with that second view. So the matter has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E, but for the reasons Ive set out , I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why below. 
From considering the paperwork, it seems likely to me that PPI was sold to Mr E during a 
meeting between the parties. I cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me 
decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked  at what  Mr E remembers  about the sale. 
And Ive also considered  the paperwork that is available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr E would have known the PPI cover was optional 
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it.  I can see that in order  for PPI to be added, 
Mr E had to fill out a separate  application  form. There were four insurance options for him 
and I can see that the box to select  the basic cover has been ticked. Mr E has also signed a 
fairly prominent yes box to say he wanted  cover. There  was another  clearly placed no box 
for Mr E to sign if he didnt  want PPI. Overall, I think Mr E would have known  that he had a 
choice about buying this cover. 
I think Wilson  advised Mr E to buy PPI. So it had to make sure the policy was right for his 
needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of 
the policy. And Ive also thought about  what Mr E told us about his personal circumstances. 
The policy covered Mr E for life and critical illness. As I said above, our adjudicator thought  
initially that the cover wasnt right for Mr E because he didnt have any dependants. But I can 
see from the further work our adjudicator subsequently did that Mr E did have a family 
member who could  have  benefitted from his estate.  
Ref: DRN41658372Mr E told us initially  that he didnt have life cover. But during a later conversation  with our 
adjudicator, he said he did have a policy. Our adjudicator asked Mr E to send further 
information about this, but I cant see that anything was received. On that basis,  I cant  safely 
say that Mr E already had life insurance  when he bought this policy. 
Mr E could have benefitted  from the critical illness cover. Taking the evidence in the round, I 
think it was reasonable  for Wilson to suggest life cover  and critical illness cover to Mr E as I 
think he could have  wanted to make sure his loan was repaid if he became unwell or in the 
unfortunate event  of his death and not leave a debt for his family member.  I dont think  
recommending life cover was an unsuitable recommendation. 
Mr E appears to have  been in good health  when he took this cover out, so I dont think  hed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual  about his circumstances  that would have stopped  him from making  a 
successful claim  if he needed to. 
Overall, I think the recommendation Wilson made  probably was suitable for Mr E. 
Wilson still had to give Mr E enough  information about the PPI so he could decide for himself  
if it was a good fit for what he needed. And I accept its possible that he wasnt  given all of 
the information he should have been. But Ive set out above how PPI could have been 
helpful to Mr E. And I think he chose PPI  so it looks  as though he wanted this type of 
cover. He borrowed a lump sum to pay for a car and I think he might  have wanted to make  
sure any debt wasnt left to his family member if things went  wrong. It follows  that I dont 
think more or better information would have put Mr E off buying PPI. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint  Mr E  and I know his disappointment will be 
greater because our adjudicator initially  said the complaint should be upheld. I want  to 
reassure him that I have  very carefully  considered all of the evidence  before me. But after 
doing so, I havent upheld  his complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4165837