K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Advantage  Insurance Company Limited, 
following a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr G was involved in an accident in his car in April 2018 and because of the damage  caused 
the car wasnt driveable. So he contacted  Advantage, who arranged for the car to be 
collected and taken away. But Mr G wasnt happy  that he was left to find his own way home  
with his two children and the contents of their car. 
Mr G was also unhappy that a courtesy car wasnt provided to him the same  day as the 
accident. He thought  Advantage had given him conflicting or incorrect information and were  
slow in getting the repairs to his car organised. In particular he said;  he wasnt  happy theyd 
told him itd likely be considered a fault claim; he hadnt been  able to go to work because he 
didnt have a courtesy  car and that he was told to go to particular garage to collect  a car only 
to that they werent repairing his car. 
Advantage accepted there  had been  some poor service and offered Mr G £100  to 
acknowledge the delay in providing the courtesy  car and the poor service. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Gs complaint.  She said, in summary, she didnt  think  
Advantage had done enough to put things right. She recommended that Mr Gs complaint 
was upheld and asked Advantage to pay Mr G a further £100 in total,  £50 to cover the costs 
of his journey  home on the day of the accident,  and a further £50 for the worry and 
inconvenience caused. A total of £200 in compensation. 
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said he didnt think this was enough  to 
cover what  hed been through. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was passed  to me. 
I issued my provisional decision on 5 November and Ive set out my findings again here:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the
adjudicators recommendations. Ill explain why.
getting home
Mr G was unhappy that Advantage didnt arrange  for him to get home with his children  and
the contents of his car. Under  the terms of the policy, Advantage was required to cover the
cost of recovering Mr Gs car to the nominated  garage. But it wasnt required to recover  Mr G
and his children.  The policy does cover  up to £50 per person though  for expenses in getting
home. Ive listened  to the call where  Mr G first reported the accident and he didnt ask
Advantage about getting home. But I think he did explain to Advantage that he was
collecting his children  from school  at the time of accident, they were with him and the car
wasnt driveable. So I think it Advantage should have been aware that hed need to find a
different way home and been  more  proactive  in explaining how they could help Mr G and his
family.
Ref: DRN43245382Advantage said in its response to Mr Gs complaint that it would reimburse  him if he provided
evidence to show his costs. Mr G has told us that he had to get him, his children and the
belongings in the car home by bus. And I think he couldve made better  arrangements   e.g.
arranging a taxi  had Advantage given him clearer information. I think this has caused Mr G
avoidable distress  and inconvenience.  So I think £50 is fair and reasonable compensation in
recognition of this part of the complaint  as this covers  the inconvenience  hes suffered and
refunds him any costs  hes incurred as well.
courtesy car and delays  in arranging repairs
Ive listened to the calls between Mr G and Advantage on 21 April 2018  the day after the
accident. Mr G contacted Advantage because he didnt want  to use the repairer Advantage
had referred him to. He said this was because  hed seen online reviews which werent
positive. He was also unhappy that he still didnt have a courtesy car.
Hed identified a garage he did want to use. Advantage said that would be acceptable but
would need an estimate before they would approve  the work to be done. This is the standard
process where the customer  wants to use their own repairer. So I dont think there  was
anything wrong  with Advantage asking Mr G for this. He was also told during the calls that
took place on 21 April, that if he used  the garage of his choice, the provision of a courtesy
car would be down to that garage, which is in line with the terms of his policy.  So Advantage
gave Mr G the correct information about this.
During the calls,  Mr G said he was disappointed  that Advantage hadnt provided him with a
courtesy car immediately. But looking at the terms of Mr Gs policy, he wasnt entitled to an
immediate replacement of the car. And Advantage correctly  explained  it would be for the
repairer to provide a courtesy car to Mr G, once they had collected his car. So I dont think
Advantage did anything wrong  by not giving him a courtesy car immediately.
Mr G called again on 21 April to say that he did want to go ahead and use the garage  hed
found himself. Advantage told again  to get the garage to provide an estimate but Mr G says
the garage told him to contact Advantage and get their approval first. But during this call, 
Mr G changed his mind again  and said he wanted  to go with the original  garage  arranged by
Advantage because they had now called him to say they were on their way with a courtesy
car and to collect his car.
But when Mr G explained his car is not at his home and so they wont  be able to collect  it
from him, the approved repairer told him they couldnt provide him with the courtesy car. This
was because Advantage was storing Mr Gs car elsewhere but the approver  repairer  didnt
appear to be aware of that.
Mr G then spoke to Advantage  again on 21 April about using his choice of repairer again.
But this garage  was closing at 12pm, so he wanted  Advantage to approve the repairs before
then so he could  get a courtesy car the same  day. In the end, because  Mr G couldnt
arrange what was needed in time to get a courtesy  car from his choice of repairer that day 
he agreed with Advantage that he would  use their approved repairer.
I can see from the emails between Mr G and Advantage there was some inconsistent
information given  about which garage would be carrying out the repairs to his car, even after
the calls on 21 April.  And this resulted in Mr G being  driven  by a neighbour to a garage only
to find that when he arrived they werent instructed to repair his car and so didnt provide a
courtesy car. On 21 April,  Advantage had agreed with Mr G which garage would be carrying
Ref: DRN43245383out the repairs. So I think Advantage is responsible for the inconvenience caused by the
conflicting information.
Mr G says he was very worried during this period about where his car was because he
thought it seemed like Advantage didnt  know and I can understand why he says this. He
also says he wasnt able to get to work because of this and so had to take annual leave. Its
not clear to me why Mr G couldnt get to work either  by public transport or by taxi. And Ive
already explained that, under the terms of the policy, I dont think  Mr G was entitled  to a
courtesy car from the start of the claim. So I dont think Advantage are responsible for
Mr Gs decision  to use his annual leave  while  he didnt have a car.
I appreciate why Mr G found being without a car so disruptive, but being in an accident and
needing the car to be repaired is, by its very nature, inconvenient. And I cant  hold
Advantage responsible for that. Mr Gs accident  took place late on a Friday  afternoon  and he
made a number of calls to Advantage on the Saturday morning; which included a number  of
conversations where Mr G said different things about which  repairer he wanted  to use. So I
dont think its unreasonable that it wasnt possible for a courtesy  car to be arranged  over the
weekend in those  circumstances.
That being  said,  even  after 21 April when a repairer  had been  agreed, there was a further
delay in repairs starting which meant Mr G didnt  get a courtesy car until Wednesday
afternoon. By this time hed been  without a car for five days.  Advantage has already offered
Mr G £10 per day for his loss of use. I think that this is in line with what I would have
awarded having considered the circumstances of Mr Gs case.  So I think  its fair in relation to
the loss of use. I say this because, as Ive explained above, I dont think Mr G was entitled to
an immediate courtesy  car and hed changed his mind  about wanting to use the approved
repairer at least twice on 21 April  so there would always have been a time  most likely
over the weekend  that Mr G was going to be without  a car as a result of his being
damaged in the accident. And Ive not seen  enough  to suggest Mr G has incurred costs over
and above what  I think Advantage is responsible for.
I dont know why there was further  confusion about which repairer  would be carrying  out the
works. It appears that there  was a miscommunication between Advantage and the company
it uses to arrange  repairs. But I think Mr G was caused a fair amount  of distress and
inconvenience. He wasnt given clear information  about which repairer was carrying out the
work, which resulted  in him making a wasted trip to a garage. For the same  reason, it wasnt
clear which garage had his car and this understandably  caused  him concern because he
didnt know where  his car was. And, it delayed a courtesy car being  arranged for two days.
Advantage have  already offered Mr G £100 in recognition of the poor service he received
during this period, but I agree with our adjudicator that a further  £50 fairly  reflects  the
concern and inconvenience  caused  for this part of Mr Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN43245384liability
Mr G is unhappy that Advantage said he was at fault for the accident  and that he had to pay
his £425 excess. A claim is regarded as a fault claim where Advantage has paid out on a
claim and it hasnt recovered its outlay from another party  e.g. the other  drivers  insurer.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident,
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether  Advantage has
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable
decision.
Advantage explained that, based on the information  Mr G had given them,  it appeared that
Mr G had pulled out of a layby and had then been  hit by another  car. But it said that the
accident damage to Mr Gs car was to the front bumper  which  it thought suggested  that Mr G
had pulled out into the path of the oncoming vehicle. It took the witness statement Mr G
provided into account, but it thought  that Mr G was likely to be held partially at fault. I think  it
was fair for Advantage to manage  Mr Gs expectations about the likely outcome of the
liability and I cant say that what it said was unreasonable.
Mr G is unhappy that he was asked to pay the excess of £425  and he was told hed have to
recover this from the other  drivers insurer through litigation. But its a term of the contract
that Mr G had to pay the first £425 of every  claim.  So I dont think  Advantage were wrong to
say Mr G would need to pay this when he contacted them, or that the garage then asked him
to pay it when he collected his car. Mr G may be able to recover  this from the other drivers
insurer if the other driver  is ultimately held at fault. But hell need to raise this with Advantage
separately.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I intend to require Advantage Insurance Company Limited, in addition  the £100  its already
offered Mr G for the loss of use of his car and the inconvenience caused, to:
pay Mr G £50 to recognise the inconvenience  caused by not telling him straight away
he had this amount  of cover on his policy, and to cover  the costs  he incurred getting
home after the accident.
pay Mr G a further £50 in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience  caused to 
him. 
Neither Mr G or Advantage responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr G or Advantage have given me anything further to consider,  I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I set out in my provisional  decision   and which  Ive set out again 
above. 
Ref: DRN43245385my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mr G a total of £200 in resolution of 
this complaint, if it hasnt  done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4324538