K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained about the fees Ambant Limited  charged him on cancellation  of his motor  
insurance policy.
background 
Mr B renewed his car insurance policy through Ambant, his insurance broker.  Ambant later 
cancelled the policy because of non-payment of premiums. Ambant asked Mr B to pay for 
the time theyd insured him, plus some additional  charges including  for cancellation. Mr B 
was willing  to pay for the time Ambant had insured  him, but he didnt think that their 
additional charges were  fair.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  He thought that 
Ambant were within their rights to cancel  the policy and charge what  they did. Mr B didnt 
agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr B said as follows. When  he renewed  his policy via Ambant from 10 June he told them 
that they shouldnt take the first direct debit for his premium instalment from his account until 
1 July. But instead they tried to take it before  that. So the payment wasnt  honoured and this 
resulted in Ambant  cancelling his policy. Mr B didnt want to continue  with the policy  because  
of what he said was their incompetence. And as he hadnt paid any premiums, he went 
elsewhere for his insurance. But after he cancelled his policy,  Ambant pursued him for about  
£98. This comprised £18.87, the cost of Ambant insuring him for the short  period,  and 
charges for cancellation and missed payment. 
Mr B was willing to pay for the time hed been insured. But he didnt want  to pay their 
additional charges. He felt that was unfair  because the cancellation  happened  because 
Ambant hadnt  done what he asked them.
I can see that on 16 May Ambant wrote  to Mr B saying his policy  would auto renew on 10 
June but and your first direct debit.. will be taken on your renewal date and then on your 
normal payment date thereafter . It also asked him to contact them if he foresaw any issue 
with making payments on time. 
The investigator asked  Mr B to show us evidence of his having asked Ambant not to take 
any direct  debits until after 1 July. But he said hed done this in the extra information 
section of the online renewal form, and the he didnt have a copy  of that.  
Ambant said theyd  searched and said they couldnt find such  a request from him. They  said 
they knew that his normal  preferred payment date was the first of the month, but they 
wouldnt have been able to postpone the payment due in June until July. So I think  that, 
even if Mr B had been able to show us that he had asked Ambant this, it doesnt mean that 
Ambant would have  agreed. 
Ref: DRN46031712Mr B had entered into a finance  agreement  with a finance company to fund his insurance  
premiums with Ambant. It was they who took payment from him by direct debit. I can see 
that the finance company  had sent him a schedule showing when each payment would be 
debited, and this included  a payment  on 12 June.  It asked  him to contact Ambant if he had 
any questions about this. The finance  company also sent Mr B notices on 13 June (and 
again on 25 June) about the missed payment and warned  about  cancelling  the agreement,  
which would affect  his policy. So I think that Mr B did have the opportunity,  inside the 14 day 
policy cancellation period, to ask Ambant to change the direct debt payment date and to 
cancel his policy then if they didnt agree to do that. 
The fees that Ambant charged Mr B are shown in Ambants terms of business and the 
finance companys  terms and conditions. So by taking out the policy  and signing the finance 
agreement Mr Bs taken to have accepted those. He thinks it unfair  that Ambant are charging  
cancellation fees when he didnt cancel  the policy, just the direct debit. But although Ambant 
cancelled the policy, I think it wasnt unreasonable of them  to do that in the circumstances, 
or to claim the fees that then applied and of which hed been advised. And though Mr B also 
complained that Ambant  didnt engage with him and only sent him automated  emails,  I think  
that they did explain to him what had happened.
I do see that Mr B is very frustrated by this and thinks  that the situation was Ambants fault.  
But without evidence that Mr B asked Ambant  what he says he did, and that Ambant would 
have agreed to that if he had asked them, I cant say that they were  wrong  to cancel his 
policy or to make these  charges. So it follows that I dont require them  to do anything  else.  
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4603171