K820x#14complaint
I am aware  that Mr B prefers to use a specific form of address. But we are required to 
publish our decisions in such  a way that consumers  cant be identified. For this reason,  I will 
refer to him as Mr B in this decision.
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc has applied charges to his current  account. 
He is also unhappy  that Barclays has refused to remove his title from its system. In addition, 
Mr B says that on 20 March 2019  he was escorted from a branch of the bank when he was 
trying to verify whether or not money  exists. Mr B says this caused  him to have a mental  
breakdown.
background
Mr B has a current  account with Barclays which, over the years,  has attracted fees and 
charges. Mr B has disputed these  charges.  
The complaint can be summarised as follows: Mr B says that by their very nature contracts 
are fraudulent due to the concealment of the fact that I was unaware that the person was 
made a corporation. I was under the understanding that I was a living  soul. The fact that I 
was removed from the bank when asking  serious  questions about money, the fact that the 
bank cant clarify money exists is still troubling me. And not even  an apology, but what  is 
worse is that they were  prepared to remove my charges until I contacted  you with this 
complaint.  
Barclays disputed that Mr B had been  ejected from the branch. The bank said that staff in 
the branch had tried to answer Mr Bs questions as best they could but what  Mr B was 
saying didnt really  make any sense to them.
In relation to charges on the account,  Barclays explained that Mr B had raised a complaint 
about these on 9 January 2009.  Barclays was unable  to refund charges at that time, and its 
decision hadnt changed since then.
Barclays also explained that it could change Mr Bs name on the account, but its system was 
set up to require  a title.
Mr B was unhappy about Barclays response and brought  his complaint to us. An 
investigator looked at it but didnt think it should  be upheld. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated  his theories about 
the nature  of money,  and about how he is addressed and what he thinks  the implications are 
of that. Mr B also said that Barclays is now asking him to repay his outstanding overdraft of 
about £210.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything Mr B has said about 
his reasoning behind his complaint. Im familiar  with the arguments he makes about. 
amongst other things,  the Cestui Qui Vie Act 1666, the Uniform Commercial Code and the 
nature of money.  
Ref: DRN40507542Mr B has strongly-held  beliefs about why he considers the fees and charges on his account 
should be refunded. Mr B says that, when  he questioned this, he was removed from the 
branch.
Barclays version of events is that Mr B would come  into the branch  on a regular basis  and 
ask questions arising from the theories  hed learned  about which  didnt appear to make 
much sense to the staff.  Barclays disputes  that Mr B was ever ejected from the branch. I 
think its likely that he was told that branch staff werent able to help him with his queries, as 
they didnt appear  to relate to specific banking  transactions  or Barclays products. 
I appreciate Mr B was upset that Barclays didnt take his queries as seriously as he thought 
it should. But the issues Mr B has raised about  whether  or not he is a corporation  or about 
the nature  of money are rather  fanciful theories which have gained  credence through being 
repeated on the internet, with no evidence  to persuade me these arguments  have any basis  
in fact. In the circumstances,  I wouldnt expect staff in Barclays branch to answer questions 
about abstract theories as part of their job, particularly where the same issues  are repeatedly  
raised. So although I understand Mr B feels strongly about this, I not upholding this part of 
the complaint.
I note that in 2009 Barclays told Mr B that it had declined to refund  charges on his account.  
The bank says its position hasnt changed since  then. As this was more than ten years ago, 
its now too late for us to look at this. Mr B says that Barclays was going to refund the 
charges until he complained to us. But the banks final response letter dated 25 June 2019 
explains that the banks decision not to refund the charges  hasnt changed since  2009. 
Fees have been applied  to the account  in the years 2017-2019 inclusive. Some were  for 
add-ons to the account (for example, insurance) and others  were  fees for unpaid items. Ive 
reviewed the account statements and Im satisfied the fees have been applied  fairly and in 
line with the account tariff.  I can see no basis upon  which I can fairly  order  Barclays  to 
reimburse these.
Barclays has explained that its able to change  the name on an account on production of 
documents evidencing a change of name, such as a marriage certificate, deed poll or other  
such official document. This seems reasonable to me. Because  Mr B no longer appears  to 
be using his account, it seems that his request has been overtaken by events. But Im 
satisfied Barclays has explained  how a change of name can be effected on an account.  Its 
process for doing  so is in line with industry  and regulatory standards.
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays has recently written to him asking him to repay his 
outstanding overdraft of about  £210. I would suggest Mr B makes arrangements  with 
Barclays to clear this debt, to avoid  his credit score being affected. If Mr B is in financial 
difficulties, he can obtain free advice from a debt charity such as StepChange or Citizens  
Advice. We can provide  Mr B with contact details  for those agencies,  if hed like us to.
Finally, Mr B has asked whether we will act on his behalf in taking out a commercial lien of 
£10,000,000 against Barclays for his suffering. We do not act for, or represent, either 
consumers or financial  businesses, so we are unable to give Mr B any advice. But I would 
strongly urge him to take legal advice from a qualified solicitor   rather  than relying on 
information he may have  read online  before embarking on any legal action, particularly if it 
is based on theories  about the nature of money, the application  of the Uniform Commercial 
Code to Mr Bs situation, or the legal fiction name.  In my experience,  none of these 
arguments have  ever succeeded  in court.
Ref: DRN40507543my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4050754