K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mrs B took out a credit card with BoS in 2008. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve paid 10% of her outstanding balance at the point  of claim each month  for up 
to 12 months at a time if she couldnt  work due to an accident, sickness  or redundancy. It 
also provided carer  cover and critical illness cover.
Mrs B says she was told she had to have  the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  Mrs B disagrees,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made  it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Mrs B completed  an 
application form and ticked  to say she wanted the PPI. She couldve  left the box blank. 
And she signed separately for the PPI.
BoS recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs B had some sick pay to cover her 
expenses if she couldnt  work.  The PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay. And it wouldve paid out for  longer than her contractual  full  sick pay. 
Ms B didnt have  any other means to meet her financial  obligations if she wasnt  working.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something  went  wrong.  I havent  seen  any 
evidence to suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs B. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But Lloyds has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Ref: DRN42743072When the policy was sold, Mrs B expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4274307