K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Together  Personal  Finance Limited sent her a form and asked for her 
medical records in order  to review her account.
background
Mrs T was upset  about the information Together Personal Finance  wanted and was worried  
it might  use the form to take possession of her house.
Together Personal Finance said it asked for Mrs Ts medical records  to see if there  were  any 
medical circumstances  affecting her ability to manage her account. And it said it wouldnt 
use that information for any other  purpose.
The adjudicator didnt think Together Personal Finance had done anything  wrong.  He 
listened to a phone call Mrs T had with Together  Personal Finance and could hear that 
Mrs T said she was struggling with her health and that she had agreed to it sending her a 
form for her GP to help her complete.  He was satisfied that this was a genuine attempt to 
help her and that any information she gave would not be used to gain possession  of her 
home.
Mrs T said she still wasnt happy  because Together Finance was charging  her too much 
interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and theres not much more I can add.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mrs T is facing and I know  she will be disappointed  
with my decision. But for the reasons our investigator gave  her I can see that Together  
Personal Finance  is trying  to help her with managing  her finances. When someone  is in 
financial difficulties any financial organisation has a duty to act positively and 
sympathetically. And I think Together  Personal Finance is trying to do that. It seems to me 
that its trying to work  with Mrs T to help her manage her account. So I cant  find it did 
anything wrong  when it asked her to complete a form about her medical  situation.  It is of 
course her decision whether she completes  the form but she needs to work  with Together 
Personal Finance  so it can respond  appropriately  to her situation. 
Mrs T is unhappy  about the interest its charging her but this was the subject of a previous 
complaint with this Service  and so I cant look into that again. I can see how difficult this 
situation is for Mrs T but for the reasons Ive given I cant  fairly  find Together Personal  
Finance has done  anything  wrong. 
Ref: DRN48819542my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4881954