K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC removed her interest free overdraft facility  
without notifying  her, causing her to incur  unfair  charges.
background
Mrs A has banked with Barclays for many years. She says she paid a fee for her account 
in order to benefit from an interest free overdraft, but she has recently realised she has 
been charged for going overdrawn. She complains that she was never informed that she 
would incur charges  for using her overdraft.
Barclays did not uphold  Mrs As complaint, saying it wrote to her about the changes to 
her overdraft over the years.
Mrs A didnt agree that the changes were made clear to her and so brought  her 
complaint to our service.  An investigator looked  into things and found that Barclays  
took reasonable steps to notify Mrs A of the changes to her overdraft.
Mrs A did not accept  the investigators  view. In response, she said - in summary:
-She suffers from a disability which means,  amongst other things,  she has poor 
reading skills. So she asked Barclays to call her as well as write to her when 
making changes  to her account. Mrs A says her communication needs were not 
recorded properly  and so not adhered  to.
-Barclays wrote to her to say she had been  refunded money wrongly  taken for 
overdraft charges. This proves it made a mistake.
-She had no way of knowing about  the changes  she did not receive  her 
statements and has never used internet banking.
Because an agreement was not reached, this case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 October 2019  and an extract of my provisional  findings is below.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here,  I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely  to have 
happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
In 2014,  Barclays  made general  changes  to its overdrafts, in an attempt to simplify 
charges and introduce ways of avoiding fees.  From Barclays  records  and the 
statements Ive seen  for Mrs As account,  Im satisfied that her overdraft limit remained 
at £1,150 and she kept her fee free overdraft amount of £300.  The changes  only made 
a difference to the way she would be charged  when she used her overdraft above the 
fee free amount,  because  she would  be charged a daily fee instead of interest on the 
overdraft balance.
So Mrs As fee free overdraft limit was not withdrawn in 2014. But Barclays made 
other changes in 2016   and I think these later changes  significantly impacted her 
fee free overdraft.
Ref: DRN45010282In March 2016,  Barclays wrote to Mrs A to say her current account was changing,  and 
would have an added insurance pack that offered  mobile and gadget  cover  for a fee. It 
also said that only the first £200  not £300   of Mrs As overdraft would be fee free, 
and only if she kept the insurance  pack.
In this letter Mrs A was given options  to:
1. Take no action if she was happy with the changes;
2. Remove  the insurance pack that had been automatically added;
3. Consider alternative insurance  packs; or
4. Close the account if she no longer wanted it.
The letter said that if Mrs A opted out of the insurance pack then, although the limit of 
her overdraft wouldnt change, no part of it would be fee free. Banks  are generally 
entitled to make changes  to their terms and conditions,  as long as they provide 
sufficient notice to all of their affected  customers.  Changes such  as these must be 
communicated in writing.  But, banks should also take account of any communication 
needs a customer  has told them about.
Mrs A says that because of her disability, she asked Barclays in 2006 to call her about  
any future changes to her account. Because she was not receiving calls, she raised  this 
as a separate complaint  with Barclays in August 2019. Its not for me to make a decision 
about that here, and I dont think it affects the outcome of this complaint  as Ill go on to 
explain.
On 13 May 2016, Barclays wrote to Mrs A to confirm the changes that had taken 
place on her account. Barclays said that following this, Mrs A gave instruction in 
branch on 17 May 2016 to opt out of the insurance pack. Based on the evidence  
available Im persuaded a conversation in branch did take place. I say this 
because Barclays has shown that Mrs A provided identification documents  in 
branch on the day in question.
A letter detailing the new overdraft terms (not including an interest  free buffer  
available with the insurance pack)  was also generated within the branch, 
following Mrs As visit. 
So on balance of probability,  Im persuaded that Mrs A made contact with 
Barclays and a conversation regarding the changes to her account took place. 
I think she asked for the insurance pack to be removed  as its unlikely Barclays  
would remove this without  her instruction. When Mrs A opted out of the insurance  
pack, its at this point her fee free overdraft was removed, under the terms and 
conditions of her account.
I appreciate Mrs A says that she did not receive her statements and has never used 
internet banking  so she didnt realise  that she was being charged for using her 
overdraft. Whilst this may be the case I dont think this has caused Mrs A any detriment 
in relation to this complaint because Im persuaded Mrs A was made  aware of the 
changes to her account and she acted on the correspondence sent to her.
Mrs A says that because Barclays has refunded her some overdraft fees, this proves it 
made a mistake.  Barclays  has refunded  her £0.88 for fees charged  on her overdraft for 
the short time she held the insurance pack.  This is because the first £200 of her 
overdraft should  have been  fee free and it says she didnt receive this benefit.  I think 
Ref: DRN45010283Barclays has taken reasonable steps  to rectify this mistake. I say this because it puts 
her into the position  she should have been in but for its error.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by making 
changes to the terms of Mrs As account.  So, I wont  be requiring Barclays to refund 
any more charges. To summarise:
-Barclays was entitled to make  changes to Mrs As account;
-It gave her notice  of the changes taking place
-Even if Barclays should have called  Mrs A about  the changes, like she 
says, Im satisfied she knew about the changes taking  place so this has not 
caused a detriment to her.
Mrs A and Barclays did not respond  to my provisional decision or provide any further
comments. I will now issue my final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also given careful  consideration to all 
of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4501028