K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the compensation that hes been offered by Close Brothers  Limited, 
trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, for a car that he rejected.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a conditional sale agreement  with Close Brothers  
that he electronically signed in April 2018.  The car was more than eleven years  old and its 
mileage was recorded on the agreement  as being 100,000 miles  but other  evidence  shows  
that its mileage was about 136,000 miles at that time. Mr W had some  issues with the car. 
Repairs were attempted by the dealer but werent successful. Mr W complained to Close 
Brothers and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. The expert 
concluded that the cars engine was faulty so Close Brothers said that Mr W could reject the 
car. Hed made three  monthly payments to it and used the car to drive  about 2,500 miles. So 
Close Brothers offered  to refund  one monthly  payment  to him. He didnt accept its offer and 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
that the actions that Close Brothers had taken in allowing Mr W to reject the car were fair 
in Mr Ws circumstances  and that  if it hadnt  yet refunded the one months premium   
she recommended that it do so. But she thought that Close Brothers shouldve taken 
reasonable steps to have the car collected from Mr W  but hed been allowed to drive it 
when it was unsafe. So she recommended that it should pay £50 compensation to Mr W 
for the inconvenience that hed been  caused. 
Close Brothers has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says,  in 
summary, that it:
dealt with Mr Ws complaint in 26 days;
didnt ask Mr W to deliver the car to the dealer and it was his decision to do so;
wasnt made aware of the car breaking  down when it was being delivered by Mr W 
and the car had been driven  for 37 miles between the inspection  and delivery;  and
has rigorously followed all the correct  processes  in place and implemented a 
rejection in a timely manner.
Mr W has also asked  for his complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says, in 
summary, that:
hes been sold a car that was less than fit and wasted many days visiting the dealer 
before the car was rejected months later;
hes due compensation for his dads fuel for one month, his wasted time and 
insurance (because he says that he was told to keep the car insured and on the 
road);
£50 compensation  for his inconvenience  is an insult;
hes requested a copy of the independent experts  report  several times; and
he was allowed to drive an unsafe  car to the dealer  and it shouldve been  collected 
from him.
Ref: DRN47302022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a conditional sale agreement  with Close Brothers  
that he signed in April 2018.  He says that he had issues with the car within the first few days 
and it was returned to the dealer for repairs a number of times  but the faults continued. So 
he complained  to Close Brothers.  It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert in June 2018. The independent expert concluded that the car was faulty and Close  
Brothers said that Mr W could reject the car and it offered to refund one monthly  payment to 
him. 
The cars mileage when it was inspected was recorded as being  139.082  miles  and at that 
time Mr W had had the car for more  than two months. Close  Brothers said that hed made 
three monthly payments to it and had driven  2,500  miles  in the car. So it said that it would 
keep two of monthly  the payments for Mr Ws use of the car and refund one monthly 
payment to him. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But that 
payment hasnt been made to Mr W. So I find that Close Brothers should refund one monthly  
payment under the agreement to Mr W.
Close Brothers also says that it dealt  with Mr Ws complaint  in 26 days from when he first 
made contact with it until he was told that he could reject the car. Mr W then delivered  the 
car to the dealer  but he says that he broke  down  en-route. Im not persuaded that theres  
enough evidence  to show that Mr W was told to deliver the car to the dealer  or that he 
asked Close  Brothers to arrange for the car to be collected.
But the independent report concluded  that the car wasnt  safe to drive  but Mr W says that 
he hasnt received a copy  of the report and that he wasnt told that it was unsafe to drive. 
That will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr W. And I agree with the investigator  
that it would  be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to pay him £50 to compensate him for 
that distress and inconvenience.  
Mr W has complained about a number of issues   including  the service  that he received from 
the dealer, that a car that he traded-in  was undervalued and that the car that was supplied to 
him was over-valued. And he says that Close Brothers should reimburse him for other costs 
that hes incurred.  But, other than its failure to provide  Mr W with a copy  of the independent 
report, I consider  that Close Brothers has responded to Mr Ws complaint correctly  and I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay any other 
compensation to Mr W. Although the dealer was unable to properly repair the car and Mr W 
wasnt happy with the service  that he received  Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Close  Brothers to pay him any 
compensation for those issues. The conditional sale agreement shows that no advance 
payment (cash or trade-in)  was made  for the car. So I dont consider that Close  Brother has 
any liability  for the value  of the car that Mr W sold to the dealer. And Mr W agreed the price 
of the car with the dealer  if he wasnt happy with that price  then he shouldnt have agreed  
to buy the car. 
Ive considered the other costs that Mr W has claimed  but I consider that the offer that 
Close Brothers made to him was fair and reasonable. And Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require Close Brothers  to refund any 
other costs  to Mr W.
Ref: DRN47302023my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. And I order  Close 
Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, to:
1.Refund to Mr W one monthly payment under the agreement.
2.Pay £50 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4730202