K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how his broker, Horner Blakey  Ltd has handled  the renewal of his
property owners policy,  the insurance claim,  the information he received when he wanted  to
transfer his policy to another broker and the lack of information regarding the history of the
policy provider.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2020 detailing  my intention  to partly  uphold 
Mr Js complaint. I was minded to require Horner Blakey Ltd to pay £200  compensation.
Neither party has replied  to that decision  so, Im now able to issue  my final decision. 
I set out the background  as follows:
In March 2018 an escape of water happened at the property owned by Mr J. The property  is 
an office with residential flats above.  Mr J contacted Horner Blakey on 5 March advising that 
his tenants in one of the flats had to go to a hotel  as their mattress  was wet and there was 
water in the flat; Mr J says he'd promised the tenants a refund of any rent already paid and 
to pay for the accommodation.
This claim  was made a few days before Mr J was due to renew his policy,  so the outstanding 
claim affected the policies  available.
During the claim process Mr J also said he found  out that he wasnt  covered for legal 
expenses, loss of rent for the residential part of the policy and alternate  accommodation.  
Mr J was enquiring about his level of cover as he was looking to see if he had a claim 
against the top floor leaseholder for negligence regarding  the escape  of water.
Mr J says he was unhappy with the service  he received from Horner  Blakey and when he 
enquired into moving broker,  he was told they were the only broker  for his insurer  in 
London. Mr J says when  he found  out that this wasnt true and addressed it with 
Horner Blakey it told him that any broker who wants to take it over has to call/speak to it first 
as the insurer  does not allow the transfer  of policies within brokers  as this will damage 
brokers businesses by taking policies away from each  other.  Mr J also thought that the 
insurer had been  fined by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  previously and this hadnt  
been declared to him. Mr J therefore thinks he has been given misleading information and 
that Horner Blakey isnt independent.
Horner Blakey says Mr J has been covered by them since 2012.
From 2012-2014 Mr J had a policy that included within its policy cover  alternative 
accommodation for the leaseholders  at 20% of the declared value and legal expenses up to 
£100,000. It says in 2013  Mr J added cover for loss of rent for £13,700 for the commercial 
unit on the ground floor.
At renewal in 2014, a different insurance  underwriter  was used  from previous  years.  
Horner Blakey says there was loss of rent cover for the commercial  unit but not for the 
residential. The policy didn't cover  legal expenses and the policy  didnt have cover for 
alternate accommodation. It says documents were sent to Mr J to check at that time and 
Ref: DRN42702312every year after. However, it has apologised to Mr J for this and ensured that this was 
rectified for Mr J at renewal in 2018.
Horner Blakey has said that because the claim happened a few days before the renewal was 
due, the more favourable quote theyd  obtained  for Mr J was recalled by that insurer. But it 
still had the quote from an insurer within the same insurance group that Mr J was already 
insured with, as technically Mr J was an existing client it agreed to honour  the quote.  Mr J 
accepted this quote albeit  it had a higher cost.
Horner Blakey has said that Mr J has not provided all the documents the insurer requires for 
the claim to proceed. Mr J wanted  to pursue the negligence aspect,  but the insurer  
confirmed to Horner Blakey that it wasnt negligence, and this information was passed onto 
Mr J.
Horner Blakey accepted  that it made  an error with not including  the alternate 
accommodation element and agreed to cover  this loss if the insurer confirmed it wouldve 
covered it under the claim. The insurer said the flat was inhabitable and it therefore wouldnt 
have paid out on this element of the claim.
Horner Blakey says it tried to assist  Mr J with his claim, but he didnt provide the evidence  
required to substantiate  it. It says it admitted to Mr J that there was a failing in the placement 
of the policy  in 2014 and it rectified that when it found out in 2018. It also offered to meet the 
costs of the alternative accommodation if it was covered.
Horner Blakey has confirmed that they act as an independent broker but are part of a 
network of brokers. The underwriter of the policy Mr J has although it has a similar name to 
the company that was fined by the FCA, it has no connection, so it therefore had no reason 
to inform Mr J.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Horner  Blakey had recognised  that 
alternative accommodation should  be part of the policy, and it acknowledged that it would've 
covered these costs  if the insurer paid out and this is what shed wouldve expected it to 
have done. However,  as Mr Js request for alternative accommodation wouldn't  have  been  
allowed by the insurer due to the circumstances - he would never have received a pay out 
from his insurer for this or subsequently loss of rent, so she didnt think  Horner Blakey 
needed to do anything more.
Mr J didnt agree and said Horner Blakey were not helpful and didnt act in his interest he 
doesnt feel they are 'truly  independent brokers'.  He feels  they provided misleading  
information by telling  him about their 'exclusivity and this shows a clear  failure  of their 
conduct. So, the complaint has been  passed  to me to make a final decision.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr J has made several complaint points, which I think  will be easiest to respond to in turn.
Handling of insurance claim
I can see there were numerous  emails  passed between Mr J and Horner Blakey. And I 
understand Mr J feels that Horner Blakey preferred to forward  several emails to him from the 
underwriter with what he thinks was an intention to make life difficult  for him and for him to 
give up.
Ref: DRN42702313From what  Ive seen I dont think this was its intention. With any claim of this type there will 
be a degree of inconvenience and a requirement  to provide the information  that will be 
required by the insurer to process the claim. Horner Blakey were required to ask Mr J for the 
information and by forwarding an email it can stop any misinterpretation  of what  is required. 
So, I dont agree with Mr J on this point.
During the claim process it came to light Mr J didnt have the cover  he thought he had  loss 
of rent, alternate  accommodation, and legal expense cover.
Loss of rent
During the renewal  process in 2013  Mr J received a schedule that under section 2 shows he 
wasnt insured for loss of rent. Ive seen an email  dated 12 March 2013  from Horner Blakey 
to the insurer  it says, additional cover  requested for Section 2 Loss of Rent currently  not 
insured our client has requested the amount of £13,700 to be added. This doesnt  clarify if 
this is covering all or a specified part of the premises.  And I havent  seen  an amended 
schedule confirming the actual cover.
In 2014 the insurer changes. And the emails at this time between  Mr J and Horner  Blakey  
confirms loss of rent is covered for 12 months at £13,700 again  there  is no documentation to 
confirm if the loss of rent applied to all or a specified part of the premises.
After receiving 2017 renewal documentation,  Mr J emails Horner Blakey to ask for 
confirmation that the renewal policy cover is the same  as the previous year including loss of 
rent. The response  confirms the policy is on the same  cover as last year inclusive of any 
increase of sums insured  through index linking, Loss of rent is at £13,700 at 12 months.
When Mr J contacted Horner  Blakey, he was told that he only had cover for the commercial  
unit on the ground floor not for the residential part. Mr J has disputed this and said it was 
always intended for the residential side of the business. He has told us he uses the office for 
his own personal  use - so it isnt rented  and therefore he wouldnt require the commercial 
part of the building to be covered specifically.
Ive looked at the schedules provided  by Horner Blakey and I dont think  it was clear if the 
loss of rent only covered the commercial unit. So, Ive checked with the insurer directly and it 
has confirmed Mr J had cover  for all the premises and not just the commercial unit. I think  
Horner Blakey has made a mistake  and has given misleading information to Mr J. I 
acknowledge there is no guarantee that a claim will be accepted but Horner  Blakey has led 
Mr J to think he didnt have cover. So, I intend to direct it to pay Mr J £200  for the trouble  an 
upset this has caused. If Horner Blakey provide  further documentation that shows this isnt 
the case, I will consider  this.
Legal expense  and alternative accommodation  cover
At renewal in 2014, a different insurance  underwriter  was used  from previous  years.  In error  
Horner Blakey didn't  continue the cover for legal expenses or for alternate accommodation.
Horner Blakey apologised for this and rectified  it for the renewed policy that Mr J agreed  to 
take out in March 2018. But unfortunately, this couldnt be changed for the policy  Mr J took 
out in 2017 and this was the policy  his outstanding  claim was on.
Ref: DRN42702314I can see Horner Blakey checked with the insurer to see if the alternative accommodation 
wouldve been covered in the circumstances of the claim. It said it wouldnt have been 
covered as the flat wasnt uninhabitable. I can see Horner  Blakey had offered to cover  this 
cost if the insurer had said it wouldve paid out. This is what I wouldve expected it to have 
done.
Mr J was also asking Horner Blakey  questions about  a negligence claim against the 
leaseholder of the top flat. But the insurer also confirmed to Horner  Blakey there wasnt  a 
case for negligence,  and I can see this information  was passed to Mr J. Im satisfied litigation 
wouldnt have been a course  of action Mr J wouldve been able to take using legal expense  
cover if he had it.
So, although  I agree  that Horner Blakey  did make  an error in 2014  with not continuing  
existing cover, Ive not seen any evidence that this had an impact on the claim made in 
2018. Ive also not been provided with evidence  to show any other  impact  to Mr J. I think  it 
more likely than not that Mr J has received lower premiums over the years as a result of not 
paying for the additional cover. So, I wont be asking Horner  Blakey  to do anything  more on 
these points.
Policy renewal
Unfortunately for Mr J the claim happened  a matter  of days before the renewal was due. 
Horner Blakey advised Mr J that the cheaper quote it had obtained was withdrawn by the 
insurer  this isnt uncommon when there is an open  claim.
I can see Mr J enquired  about withdrawing  the claim and asked would this reduce  the 
premium. Horner  Blakey asked the underwriters,  but they confirmed it wouldnt affect  the 
policy at the time but could be considered if it were to renew again. This isnt something 
Horney Blakey can control  as pricing  of policies lies with the underwriter of the policy.
I can see that Mr J accepted the quote obtained albeit this was at a higher premium.  
However, Mr J has raised concerns that Horner Blakey isnt independent and is biased 
towards their recommendation of the insurer it used.
Brokers have direct agencies with access to numerous insurers,  but they can also be part of 
a broker network as is the case for Horner Blakey.  I can see Mr J was previously  insured  
from 2012-2013 with an insurer outside of the broker network but moved into it when quoted 
a better  price in 2014. I havent  seen  any evidence that Horner Blakey hasnt been 
independent or been  biased in their recommendation.
Misleading information
Mr J has also said he was given misleading information when he enquired  about  moving
broker. And he felt he was a hostage client.
Horner Blakey said that Mr J enquired about moving  brokers  after it told him what was 
required to substantiate  his claim with the insurer. It said it told Mr J that he could move 
brokers, but the insurers current position  would  still be the same  response regardless of 
what broker he was with.
When its one persons word against another I cant know  for sure what  was or wasnt  said 
but even if Mr J was told incorrect information, Ive considered what impact  this had on him. I 
Ref: DRN42702315can see Mr J made  his own enquiries  directly with the broker  network and he did move his 
business to another broker. So even if this was said to him, he still was able to move to 
another broker. I also cant see that this information had any detriment on the insurance  
claim itself.
Regarding Mr Js comments about the FCA fine. This has been explained by Horner  Blakey 
and our investigator, so I dont intend to repeat the details again.  This is connected  to Mr Js 
complaint regarding his claim and I havent seen anything to suggest Horner  Blakey misled 
Mr J with regards to the insurer or the broker network Horner Blakey is part of. The fine is 
historic and was against another  insurer. So, I wont be instructing Horner  Blakey to do 
anything on this point.
I would like to explain to Mr J that this service is here to resolve individual disputes between  
financial services providers and their customers. As such, our role is to look into the 
individual events  Mr J has complained about.  If he feels a wider investigation into 
Horner Blakey should be done,  that would be the role of the industry  regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Mr J is at liberty to contact  that organisation with his concerns if he feels  
it would  be appropriate.
In summary  I acknowledge errors were made by Horner Blakey  in 2014 when renewing the 
policy. However, there is also an onus upon Mr J to read the information to ensure it meets 
his needs. But with regards to the loss of rent I do think Mr J was given incorrect information  
when he contacted Horner Blakey  regarding  his claim in 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  comments were received from the parties, Im satisfied  that my provisional 
decision represents an outcome thats  fair and reasonable 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Horner Blakey  Ltd to pay £200  compensation to Mr J.
Horner Blakey Ltd should pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4270231