K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Mrs Ts complaint concerns Nationwide Building Societys refusal  to discuss her 
credit card account with her husband.  Her husband,  Mr T, is representing her in bringing  the 
complaint.
background
In February 2018  Mr T contacted Nationwide to discuss Mrs Ts account. Nationwide 
explained to him that it couldnt  discuss the account with him as there  was no authority from 
Mrs T to discuss the account  with him. Mr T was unhappy with this and made a formal  
complaint on behalf of Mrs T.
Nationwide wrote to Mrs T in response to the complaint. It said without any written  authority 
from her or without any validation on the call beforehand, it wouldnt be able to discuss her 
sole account with Mr T. And it was satisfied the credit card department had followed the 
security process correctly. 
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr T brought the complaint to our service on behalf of Mrs T. 
When one of our investigators  started to look into the complaint, Mr T gave her details of a 
number of other concerns he had about  Nationwide which appeared to also relate  to his own 
accounts.
The investigator then wrote to Mr T asking  him to summarise  the complaint points he wanted 
our service  to investigate.  And she went on to explain that we wouldnt be able to investigate  
the complaint  without  Mrs Ts consent.  Mrs Ts consent was obtained, and the investigator 
again asked Mr T to summarise the points that they wanted the service  to investigate. 
Mr T didnt  provide the clarification the investigator had asked for, so she wrote to him again 
outlining the issues  he had raised in previous  e-mails  to her. And she asked  him to clarify 
which of the points he had raised,  related to this complaint. She explained that the final 
response from Nationwide was addressed to Mrs T and explained why it couldnt  discuss  the 
account with Mr T. 
Mr T has also written  to the investigator expressing  concern  that his protected characteristics 
hadnt been considered.  And hes explained that his problems with Nationwide had been 
going on for the past seven years. 
Mr T didnt  clarify his complaint points, so the investigator wrote  to him on 7 December 2018. 
She explained that she wasnt  able to investigate what  happened  over the previous seven 
years as he hadnt told her why he was unhappy  and what  he would like her to investigate. 
As he hadnt confirmed  what  complaint points he wanted us to look at, she had looked at the 
points raised in the final response letter sent by Nationwide in February 2018. And she 
explained that she didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. 
Mr T disagreed with the assessment  and in his response.  He referred  to a document about 
understanding individuals with protected characteristics. And he asked for a further review to 
be carried out. He also asked to be involved with discussions with the appointed 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN40080482One of my ombudsman colleagues wrote to Mr T. And he explained that he didnt think an 
oral hearing  or formal  meeting  was necessary. And he was satisfied that he had enough 
information to decide the cases that Mr T had with our service. 
The complaint has been referred to me for review  and a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the investigation into this complaint, Mr T has raised a number of concerns,  which  
appear to be about his own accounts  and dealings with Nationwide.  Ive noted the 
investigators efforts to clarify  the complaint with Mr T. And without any further clarification 
from Mr T, I think it has been  reasonable of her to consider the points  covered  in 
Nationwides final response letter from February  2018. So, for the avoidance of any doubt 
my review  only relates to Nationwides refusal to discuss  Mrs Ts credit  card account with 
Mr T. 
Ive also noted  my ombudsman colleagues  assessment that an oral hearing wasnt 
necessary. I do understand that Mr T might like to speak to the decision maker in this 
complaint. We are an informal dispute  resolution service and most of our cases  can be 
decided by an assessment of the paperwork.  Having reviewed everything afresh,  I am 
satisfied that I can decide  this case on a review of the paperwork without the need  to speak 
to Nationwide, or Mr T on Mrs Ts behalf.
Mr T has said that in his dealings with Nationwide he doesnt think that it has considered  his 
protected characteristics  under the Equality Act 2010. I cant make a finding as to whether 
Nationwide has breached the act in the way it communicated  with Mr T when he rang to 
discuss Mrs Ts account. And in this complaint, it is Mrs T who is the customer  of Nationwide  
not Mr T. But I can consider whether Nationwide acted fairly when it told Mr T that it couldnt  
discuss Mrs Ts account with him. 
Although Mr T was an additional  card holder for the credit card he rang Nationwide  to 
discuss; Mrs T was the sole account holder. I do understand  that as an additional card 
holder and from his point  of view being involved in the account, Mr T was frustrated that 
Nationwide wouldnt speak to him about Mrs Ts account.
However, Nationwide had a duty to protect Mrs Ts data. And although Mr T was her spouse, 
I dont agree that this meant  that Nationwide should automatically speak to him about her 
account. I think it was appropriate for Nationwide to check  whether Mrs T had told 
Nationwide that she was happy  for it to speak  to Mr T.
When Nationwide checked its records, it has told us that there was no letter of authority 
providing permission  for it to speak to Mr T. And Mr T confirmed that Mrs T wasnt  with him 
to provide authority for it to speak to him. So as Nationwide had a duty to protect Mrs Ts 
data, I dont think it acted  unreasonably by explaining to Mr T that it wasnt able to speak to 
him without  Mrs Ts authority. I do understand that Mr T doesnt agree  and found  
Nationwides stance  upsetting and frustrating,  but as Ive explained I dont think  it did 
anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN40080483my final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4008048