K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC declined  her for a loan despite her having a good 
credit history.  She wants an apology from them and compensation for the distress  that they 
have caused her. 
background
Mrs W applied  for three loans from Lloyds: two on 21 January 2019 and one on 22 January 
2019. All of these  were declined by Lloyds  who said that the applications didnt meet  their 
lending policy at the time.
Mrs W lodged  a complaint against  Lloyds. She didnt think  that theyd got her income right.  In 
particular, she thought that they had incorrectly said that her debt at the time of the 
applications was £40,000 and that they had failed to include  the royalties that she received 
as income even though they had allowed  them in the past. 
Mrs W also complained that Lloyds had told her she could get a loan if she paid off an 
existing loan that she had. 
Mrs W asked  that Lloyds  increase her current overdraft  to £10,000 instead but this was 
refused. Mrs W brought a separate complaint about this which isnt part of this complaint.  
Lloyds wrote to Mrs W on 5 and 13 February 2019. They didnt think that they had taken into 
account an incorrect figure when looking at her debt. They also said that royalties werent  a 
permissible form of income for their lending  policy. So, they only took into account  the 
pension that Mrs W received. Because of this, they said that they were  unable to approve  
lending. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this decision so she came to us. 
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and found that Lloyds were  entitled  to come to a 
decision not to lend to Mrs W. 
Mrs W didnt accept this decision so the complaint has now come to me. Mrs W wasnt 
happy with the following:
She said that Lloyds  got her debt figure wrong and shouldnt  have  said it was 
£40,000.
She said that her pension was £6,000 a year and not £7,000 as Lloyds had said.
She said that Lloyds  had told her if she paid off an existing loan, they would give her 
another loan.
She said that she had been spoken to rudely by Lloyds staff.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN45726532Mrs W says that she didnt  have debts of £40,000  and didnt  know  why Lloyds were  saying  
that she had. Ive looked into Lloyds  explanation  for this and Im persuaded by it. They  say 
that they were  aware that Mrs W hadnt borrowed  £40,000 but that this was the amount of 
credit that she could have  considering the credit cards that she had. The credit file showed 
this and I can see this. When they looked at the case, the amount she was in debt by was 
just under £35,000 but she had the capacity to borrow up to £40,000 if she chose to by using 
her credit cards. So this is the figure that they took into account.  I think that this was a 
sensible approach  by them. 
Lloyds only took Mrs Ws pension as her guaranteed income and not the royalties paid to 
her. I can see why Mrs W didnt agree with this as she believes that the royalties are 
guaranteed income. Unfortunately, Im unable to say to Lloyds that they must take them into 
account as this is their business decision and I cant interfere with it. 
I do appreciate that Mrs W says that Lloyds took the royalties  into account before. But, 
again, this was for them to exercise their discretion and I cant interfere with this decision.  
Lloyds said that Mrs W pension income  was £7,000 whilst Mrs W says that it was £6,000. To 
stand a better chance of getting a loan, using the income of £7,000  is preferable  to using 
£6,000 so I dont understand why this is something that Mrs W objects to. As to getting the 
figure wrong,  I dont  think that Lloyds have. The statement that theyve shown  makes  it clear 
that the income from the pension is over £7,000.  
Ive looked at the file to see if Lloyds staff were rude to Mrs W. I cant  find any evidence  of 
this so Im afraid that I dont agree that they have been rude.  
Finally, Ive seen the letter  from Lloyds that Mrs W says shows that they said they would give 
her a loan if she paid off the existing loan. I dont  think that it says this. It says that if she was 
to pay off the loan,  it would  reduce  the total amount of money  that she owed and would put 
her in a better position of getting  a loan. This isnt the same  as saying she would get a loan if 
she paid off her current loan. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Mrs W wanted and Im sorry for this. Im aware that the 
reason for her trying  to get a loan is for a very important reason. For this, I really  do 
understand her disappointment in not being able to get the loan.  But, I cant  say that Lloyds  
has behaved unreasonably or unfairly  in this case. 
I hope that Ive clearly  explained the reasons  for my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Rita Parmar
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4572653