K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK plc trading  as cahoot has accused him of not making 
regular payments into his account and says he has an overdraft facility that he didnt agree 
to. He also complains that cahoot has refused to send the money  in his account to a different 
bank.
background
Mr B says he received  a number of letters from cahoot accusing him of not making  a regular 
payment into his account and telling him that he was overdrawn. He says he didnt agree to 
the overdraft facility and says in any event he has over £880  in the account which he would 
like sent to an account he has with a different bank.  Mr B says he has spent some time 
dealing with this complaint and would like compensation at his professional hourly  rate of 
£50 an hour.
Santander on behalf of cahoot says that the account  was opened  in 2000 and it doesnt 
have the account opening documents. It says Mr B would have agreed to the overdraft 
facility and says its given him details of the transactions that led to the account being 
overdrawn. Santander has also provided  an account statement from 2016 that shows the 
account had an overdraft facility of £1,000.
Mr B brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the overdraft facility would have had to be agreed by Mr B and the account 
statements from 2016 showed it was in place.  The investigator thought that if Mr B was 
disputing the transactions  that let to him being  overdrawn, then he would need to raise that 
with the business that took the money  from his account.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and maintains  he didnt ask for the overdraft facility.  He says 
hes now spent eight  hours dealing with this complaint and other  companies  treat their 
customers differently to how Santander has treated him. Mr B would like Santander to allow 
him to close  his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr B will be disappointed  by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened. I make it clear  to 
Mr B that I accept that he has received letters  from cahoot and Santander but I will just refer 
to Santander in my decision  to avoid confusion.
Ive looked at Mr Bs account statements and Im satisfied that a series of transactions took 
his account into an overdraft. I appreciate that Mr B says he had about  £800 in the account 
but Im satisfied that wasnt  the case and the correct position was that the account was 
overdrawn by about £880. So I dont think Santander made  a mistake by writing  to him about  
the overdraft and advising him what  he needed  to do.
I appreciate that Mr B says a company I will call A took the money out of his account  and 
that he may dispute  those transactions. But I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for that 
and I can see that there has been a direct debit  in place to pay A for some  time. No doubt 
Mr B will raise that issue with A.
Ref: DRN40590512I can see that the account has been  open since 2000 and that opening documentation is no 
longer available. So in those circumstances  its difficult  to be sure when the overdraft  facility  
was first made  available.  Santander says its policy is for a customer to agree to an overdraft 
facility before its made available. So I think on balance  its likely Mr B agreed to the facility 
but I accept that may have been  up to 19 years ago. In any event I can see that the account  
statements which I think Mr B would have  received  made  clear  reference to the account 
having an overdraft  facility of £1,000. So I think that if Mr B wished to dispute the facility or 
remove it then he could  have done so from at least 2016 which is the date of the earliest  
account statement  I have  seen.
I appreciate Mr B says other businesses deal with these sorts of issues differently. I cant  
fairly comment on that as Im only dealing with Mr Bs complaint against  Santander.  I also 
appreciate that Mr B would like to close his account.  But Ive not seen any evidence that 
Santander has prevented that. I have no doubt that if Mr B pays  back the money  I think he 
owes Santander then the account can be closed.
Overall Im satisfied Santander hasnt  made  a mistake or acted unfairly. And so I cant fairly  
order it to pay Mr B the compensation he would like or order it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4059051