K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies. Im 
aware the complaint has been  with our service for a long time. So Id like to begin  by 
recognising this and also sincerely apologising to Mr L and Ms G for how long its taken for 
their complaint to get before an ombudsman for a final decision.
Nevertheless, I can see a major  reason for the delay has been due to a legal matter which 
potentially affects  complaints  similar in nature to the one brought by Mr L and Ms G. I can 
also see one of our adjudicators provided  a view,  some  time ago, that this is a mis-sale 
complaint that we probably wouldnt uphold.
background
Mr L and Ms G say Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold two MPPI  policies  to them  
with their mortgage, in 2000 and again in 2002.  They feel the MPPI wasnt something they 
should have been sold as they had good protection already with their respective  jobs.
After our adjudicator said that they didnt  think the complaint about the MPPI  mis-sale should 
be upheld, the complaint  was prepared for a final decision  by an ombudsman. But since  that 
time the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued new guidance about commission  and 
profit sharing  levels with regard to PPI generally.
So I now know that  albeit after a long and frustrating wait  Mr L and Ms G have  been  paid 
back some  money for the commission YBS got from selling them one of the policies. Due to 
the dates involved, the other  MPPI policy isnt affected by the FCA guidance.
Mr L and Ms G arent happy  about the commission redress they received  back and still think  
the MPPI  was mis-sold in the first place.  Theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this Im not upholding Mr L and Ms Gs mis-sale complaint.
I certainly dont doubt that Mr L and Ms G genuinely and honestly feel the two policies were 
mis-sold to them. However, when  YBS started to look at Mr L and Ms Gs complaint, a 
considerable time period  had already elapsed. In that context, I dont  find it unusual that YBS 
couldnt provide  every  piece of documentation  in relation to both sales.  Businesses arent  
required to keep records indefinitely, so Ive looked very carefully at everything  else we still 
have access to. Ive also thought, as Im allowed to do, about what  is more  likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
We know, for example,  that Mr L and Ms G didnt actually start their first MPPI policy until a 
few months after their mortgage actually began. The indications  are that initially, they didnt 
want the MPPI or hadnt yet made  up their minds.  So they didnt set up any MPPI cover 
when their mortgage actually commenced.  But we know that in May 2000  an MPPI policy 
was set up (after their mortgage was already in place) to cover Mr Ls income. 
Ref: DRN43627602In my opinion, because of this, Mr L and Ms G would have known they had a choice and 
they would  have been able to deduce they didnt need to have this type of cover with their 
mortgage if they didnt want to. I think  the sequencing of what took place shows  its more  
likely they set up their mortgage  first and then thought about what  they wanted to do about 
mortgage protection. This resulted in them setting an MPPI policy up after a few months  had 
already elapsed on the mortgage. 
I see they were sent a confirmatory letter about this MPPI application. It pointed  out two 
things; that the first 6 months were free of charge, and what they should do if they wanted to 
change their minds. So Mr L and Ms G had a further  opportunity to back away  from the 
MPPI purchase.  And I think that this  and the free 6 months incentive offer - would have 
demonstrated that this type of cover wasnt compulsory. Compulsory policies, in my view, 
are seldom free of charge and I think Mr L and Ms G would have known that. 
Mr L and Ms G were also written to again  by YBS, this time in October 2000. They were told 
that the free 6 month  period would soon be ending. This information was set out in what  I 
consider to be a relatively straightforward  way. The letter clearly explained for example, that 
your free premium period  that applied to your policy expires  on 31st October  2000.  From  
November your Mortgage Payment Insurance premium of £20.22  will be added  to the 
monthly payment.
So Im afraid  I dont agree this first MPPI  policy was mis-sold.  I find the information 
disclosure to be comprehensive and I think it was obvious enough  that YBS obtained  Mr and 
Ms Gs consent to set this policy up. I think the evidence shows its far more likely they 
thought about what they wanted to do and wanted  to cover Mr Ls income, in the event of 
him losing his job.
In short,  I think theres  good,  solid evidence that they consented to the MPPI.
Mr L and Ms G applied for another  YBS mortgage  in December 2002. This time we can see 
on the mortgage application  form that they chose  MPPI for Mr L. I also see that it was for 
unemployment cover, rather than the more common accident,  sickness  and unemployment. 
They signed  a specific MPPI application  form as well, dated 19 December 2002. And their 
mortgage offer, a document  I feel they would have  wanted to read carefully, included the 
MPPI on it. 
The mortgage offer also directed Mr L and Ms G to read the conditions  relating to the MPPI 
cover and I note they were written to in January  2003 confirming  the cover  had been  set up.
So again,  I think these  things show that Mr L and Ms G specifically applied for the MPPI. I 
think they would have been  able to see they had a choice and I think YBS broadly kept them  
informed of developments throughout the application process.  The supporting 
documentation for this second MPPI  policy is, in my view, very strong  and persuasive that 
they wanted to have  this type of protection for Mr L. 
I therefore find the second MPPI policy to have  been properly consented to.
This brings  us to the issue  of suitability. YBS said these werent advised sales, but actually, I 
dont think it matters whether they were or werent. Advised sales carry a higher duty in that 
the seller needs  to assess and confirm that the cover was suitable for the consumers 
circumstances. I think  it was.
Ref: DRN43627603I say this because  Mr L was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The costs seem to me to be in line with 
the type of cover that was being  sold across the market at that particular  time and it was 
designed to be of use in unexpected circumstances.
I fully understand  the point about Mr L and Ms G having good jobs and I agree their 
protection from sickness and unemployment  would have been  relatively  good.  But Im afraid 
this doesnt make the MPPI of no use. Their mortgage was secured  against their home and 
so the consequences of not being able to make their repayments could have been serious. 
The policy,  on the other hand,  would  have paid out a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if 
Mr L had needed  to claim and this would have been  in addition to any other means  he and 
Ms G had in place at the time.
I think all these things make the cover useful  and I dont think  that recommending it was 
unreasonable. I think the cover was suitable.
YBS also had to provide information  that was clear  so Mr L and Ms G could make an 
informed decision about whether or not they wanted MPPI. I cant  obviously say Mr L and Ms 
G were told everything they shouldve  been  told. But of course, this sale was a while ago. 
However I can see documents from the sales that described the monthly cost, who was 
covered and for what. I also think theyd have  been sent or given something explaining the 
policy rules and YBS sent us a copy of what Mr L and Ms G would have been given. So 
even after such a long time, I think its fair to say Mr L and Ms G would have had quite a lot 
of information  about how the policy worked.
Im sorry  that Mr L and Ms G have had to wait a while, but my final decision is that their 
policies were not mis-sold. The evidence points strongly in the other direction. This means  
that our involvement is at an end and Im not upholding their mis-sale complaint. 
However my understanding is that YBS has already paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr L and Ms G because when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium). To put that right,  it has 
already paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN43627604my final decision
I dont uphold this mis-sale complaint. And I dont require Yorkshire Building Society to pay 
Mr L and Ms G any more money.  My understanding is that it has already paid back  some  of 
the commission it received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4362760