K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Pic refused to allow  him to reject a faulty
car.
Background
In February 2017  Mr S acquired a second-hand  car at a cost of £19,797 funded by a
conditional sale agreement with Santander. It was some  seven  years  old and had done
106,780 miles. It was advertised as having a full manufacturers service history. Mr S works
overseas and made limited use of the car, but took it to a main dealer in May to deal with a
leaking airbag  which was repaired under warranty.
He asked that it undergo a diagnostic test as he had noticed  a number of warning lights  and
this identified that the ECU had been  remapped which invalidated  the warranty covering any
mechanical or engine  faults. He says he queried this with the garage and was told that the
manufacturer was seeking to avoid its responsibilities and nothing could be done.
Mr S continued to make limited use of the car until October 2017 when it suffered a
catastrophic failure. The garage refused to accept  any responsibility. The car was repaired in
February 2018 at a cost of £4,438 and in March  he was advised the car was no longer
usable as the prop shaft had damaged  the engine. He was also told of anomalies in the cars
service history. Apparently, the car was serviced  in February 2012 having done 29,000 miles
and the next service was September 2014 when  it had done 95,000  miles.
Mr S surrendered the car in August  2018 and it was sold at auction for £8,518  leaving him
with a significant sum to pay to clear the debt. He complained  to Santander and it said the
garage wasnt aware of any engine upgrade  prior to sale and it believed  the warranty  was
valid. It went on to say it hadnt any evidence of when the upgrade had been carried out and
it couldnt say that this had occurred prior to the sale.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He said there  was no evidence  as to when
the upgrade had happened. He also said the major fault occurred some 10 months  after
acquisition and it was down to Mr S to provide evidence  that the car wasnt fit for purpose at
the point of sale.
Mr S didnt agree and said the first faults  were identified in May when he took the car to a
main dealer  and the diagnostic was carried out. He queried why he would haves asked for a
diagnostic test shortly after purchase if he had been  responsible for the remapping pf the
ECU since that would  have voided  the warranty.  He also said the garage had admitted it
knew the engine  had been remapped  in the course of a phone conversation. I issued a
provisional decision as follows:
I said that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and
(where appropriate)  what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.
Santander is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for
a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN41347902The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
There were two issues I needed to consider in this complaint. Firstly,  was the car mis-sold
i.e. did the dealer fail to tell Mr S the engine had been remapped thus voiding the warranty?
The second  is whether the car was fit for purpose  at the point of sale?
On the first issue Mr S has not been  able to identify definitively that the cars  engine was
remapped before he acquired it, but I believe the circumstantial evidence supports his claim.
It is not disputed  that the engine had been remapped.  The only issue was when  was this
undertaken. Mr S had stated categorically it wasnt done after he took delivery.
He set out a detailed timeline of events  which  I didnt  reproduce since Santander  had seen a
copy. Mr S works overseas and is frequently out of the UK. Shortly  after he acquired the car
he went overseas only returning some  two months  later in May. On 16 May he took the car
to a main dealer due to concerns about  an airbag  and the rear suspension. The airbag was
repaired under  warranty. He asked that diagnostic test be carried out due to concerns  about
the car and it identified  work was needed  on the EGR. It also identified  that the engine  had
been remapped.  This voided the warranty in respect  of most aspects of the car, but not the
airbag fault.
The following  day Mr S contacted the dealer and says he was told the main dealer was
trying to get out of its responsibilities for warranty work. Over the next few months Mr S says
he was away for work for most of the time and the car wasnt used much.  On 19 October the
car suffered a catastrophic failure. Mr S says he notified the dealer  which  said it had no
responsibility for the damage.
The car was recovered to a third-party garage and repaired in February 2018 at a cost of
£4,438, but a few weeks later the garage advised that the car needed either  an engine
rebuild or a new engine.  It stated:  This letter is confirmation that [the car] has to the best of
our knowledge  suffered  permanent engine damage due to oil starvation at the big end
bearing, this is likely due to lack of engine oil in the sump caused by the prop shaft snapping
and in turn penetrating  the oil sump.
I noted Mr S made relatively little use of the car and this was backed  up by the mileage he
covered. In mid-May the car had covered  108,086 miles. He also took it to a main dealer in
May and asked that it have a diagnostic test which was bound to show the engine had been
remapped. He then contacted the dealer the following day to query  this and ask about the
voided warranty. That suggested to me that Mr S was unaware the engine had been
remapped.
After our investigator issued his opinion Mr S made further enquires and identified that the
Ref: DRN41347903previous owner  had connections with a remapping business. He also says that the previous
owner had, on social  media, referred to having  another car he owned remapped.  This
service was unable  to contact the business  which may have carried out the remapping, but
was unable to obtain a response, possibly due to the pandemic.
I considered that on the balance of probabilities the car was remapped  before Mr S acquired
it and the warranty  was voided as a result. That would  lead me to conclude that the car had
been mis-sold as I gathered it was sold with a warranty.
Mr S had also identified  that that the car didnt have a full service history as claimed  by the
dealer. I wasnt convinced that this could be said to amount  to mis-selling  since  I presumed
Mr S had the opportunity to check the log book and the missed services were  from some
years ago. I suspected  had Mr S been aware  of this it would not have stopped  him buying
the car.
The second  issue  was whether the car was faulty at the point of sale.  Mr S provided  a letter
from a garage which carried out a diagnosis on 9 February 2018. This states: Upon
investigation it was found that the Turbo actuator was not working.  The Vacuum pipework is
visibly not of Original Equipment and not routed and not routed correctly. Further
investigation was required to ascertain the reasoning for the change in pipework and
routing".
This doesnt specify if the car was likely  to have  been faulty at the point of sale, but it does
show the engine  had been altered with non-genuine parts  and this seems to have been 
done.
incorrectly. However, I was aware  that the car was subjected to a diagnostic  test in May
2017 and this only showed  a fault with the ECU. I was not aware what  action, if any was
taken to address  this fault or whether it contributed  to the catastrophic failure.
I said the car was relatively old and had covered a high mileage and so it would have been
subject to a fair degree of wear  and tear. As things  stood, I didnt consider I was able to
conclude the car was faulty at the point of sale, but I believed it may well have been. I invited
both parties to comment and if possible,  to provide evidence that showed if the car was likely
to have been faulty in February  2017.  I mentioned that as the failure didnt occur until more
than six months had passed  since  the sale the onus was on Mr S to demonstrate the car
was faulty at the point of sale.
I explained the matter of redress would  depend  on several matters. Would the catastrophic
failure have been  covered by the warranty had it not been voided?  If not, what  costs has Mr
S suffered due to the warranty been voided? Alternatively, if it could be established the car
wasnt fit for purpose when sold then I would require the Santander to forgo any shortfall
after the voluntary  termination.
Mr S was able to contact  the previous owner who confirmed via text that it was he had had
the engine remapped. He also contacted an approved dealer which confirmed that much  of
the warranty would have been  voided  due to the remapping including the engine,  gearbox,
exhaust and drive shaft. It explained that this was due to the additional wear  and tear caused
by remapping.
He said his costs  were:
1. £4,438 in repairs (which  were carried out in vain since it was discovered that the engine
Ref: DRN41347904was in fact beyond repair and the costs incurred were a complete waste  of money)
2. £5,800 to purchase another vehicle to get me back and forth to work.
3. £3,224 in monthly finance  agreement payments  to Santander for a vehicle that was
unusable
4. £656 in car insurance for an unusable vehicle
5. £196 in car tax for an unusable vehicle
6. £15,414 in loss of earnings after sustaining a back  injury  whilst pushing the vehicle off the
motorway single handed in order to avoid a fatal collision.
Santander contacted the dealer  and it responded to say it had acquired the car in part
exchange and it had been bought by the customer as approved used from a main  dealer
which indicated the car had been subjected to a full check. It said the fact that the approved
dealer had replaced an airbag showed the warranty was on the car as advertised.
It said it believed Mr S had other  issues with the car in May 2017 relating to the EGR valve
that he was told was not under warranty due to remap.  He didnt bring the car back  to the
dealer for repair, but continued  to drive it knowing there was a potential  fault. It also noted
that the MOT dated showed the car had covered 112,866 miles (over  6,000 since  purchase).
It added that this MOT also states  "E.M.L"  Light on (engine management light) which would
indicate the car has continued to be driven with a warning light present on the dashboard.
It noted that it wasnt given the opportunity to inspect the car at any point but according  to Mr 
S the catastrophic  failure of the car was due to a failed prop shaft penetrating the engine.  It
said that this failure couldnt be attributed to any modification to an ecu which may or may
not have occurred and in any case would  not be covered by any form of warranty. A failed
prop shaft would be due to wear and tear and then unfortunate consequential damage that it
has penetrated the engine. It concluded  the likely  cause of the problems was wear and tear.
I issued a second provisional decision setting  out what I considered to be fair redress.  I said 
that I accepted that Mr S was able to use the car up until the major failure 19 October 2017 
and I believed he should pay for that use, but only for that period. I wasnt aware of any 
shortfall that the bank was seeking  after the car was surrendered,  but I didnt consider that
should be payable  by Mr S. I also said that the cost of the repairs should be paid by 
Santander along with tax and insurance for the period after 19 October 2017 subject to him 
providing evidence.  
Mr S asked that he be repaid the payment he made when the car was unusable and that his 
credit file be restored. Santander did not respond
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances I consider my second provisional decision should  stand. Mr S 
surrendered the car in August 2018 and stopped  making  payments.  As I said in my second  
provisional decision, he should  not be liable for payments after 19 October  2017  and these  
should be refunded. In addition, if after refunding  these payments there was shortfall when 
the car was sold I do not consider Mr S should be held liable for it. I also consider Santander 
should remove any adverse entries it may have  has placed on his credit file in relation to this 
finance agreement.
Ref: DRN41347905My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Pic to:
pay for the repairs costing £4,438.
refund  any payments  made by Mr S after 19 October 2017
not charge  him for any shortfall  after the agreement was ended
pay for car tax and insurance  for the car for the period  after 19 October  2017 subject 
to Mr S providing evidence of payment
remove any adverse entries it has made on his credit file in relation to the conditional 
sale agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4134790