K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo).
background
On 16 January 2018, Mr O entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car. The term 
of the agreement was for 60 months  and consisted  of 59 payments of £330.53 and one 
monthly payment  of £340.53. The car had travelled 47,717 miles at the point of sale.
Mr O didnt drive  the car until 2 February  2018.  He took his wife and family  out for a test 
drive and immediately  became  aware of a problem with the windscreen wipers, which 
stopped working  whilst it was raining. The dashboard warning lights  also flagged  a number 
of faults. Mr O telephoned the dealership  but it said it had no availability for at least 2-4 
weeks and suggested  Mr O take the car to a local garage.
On 19 February 2018, Mr O took the car to a diagnostics garage. It produced  a 19-page  
report indicating numerous faults including but not limited to a rear lid motor  one electrical  
error (boot),  rain/light recognition sensor  and cruise control.
Mr O spoke with the dealership and felt the best option was to take the car to an Audi 
dealership for repairs but the dealership said the costs would be prohibitive,  and asked  Mr O 
to take it to an Audi specialist garage instead. The garage looked at the car and told Mr O, 
the compartment with all the wiring in had been accessed and made a mess of which had 
resulted in some of the wiring  being  trapped. 
Mr O says he became rather alarmed at this point because it was suggested this should 
have shown on the service history. Mr O didnt have a paper service history as the 
dealership told him it was stored on the key. He later discovered this wasnt the case.  The 
specialist garage  investigated the faults  with the cruise control, wipers, steering fault and the 
boot not closing. It carried out repairs to the wiring  and replaced the wiper motor.
Upon driving the car after it had been repaired,  Mr O continued to experience problems with 
the cruise control  intermittently and the boot lid not closing properly. The garage  advised him 
to drive a few more  thousand miles to flush  out any problems.
On 30 July 2018, Mr O returned  the car to the diagnostics garage as the wipers failed again.  
It found the wiper  motor  control unit to be faulty  as well as the rain and light sensor. The car 
was repaired and the garage  informed  Mr O the previous wiper motor issue was due to 
corroded terminals that may have been caused by old water ingress but it couldnt see how 
the water  got into the unit.
Mr O says following this repair, he continued to experience problems with the wipers  
intermittently. He says when they failed  he would turn the ignition off, open  the door, close  
the door and restart  the engine and this became his wiper reset  sequence. 
On 1 December  2018, he says he was travelling on the motorway  in the evening,  with his 
wife and young family, and the wipers  stopped  working during heavy rain. He describes how 
frightening it was to try to move his vehicle, with very little visibility to the hard shoulder 
safely. He tried his wiper reset sequence but this didnt work and so he waited for the rain 
Ref: DRN48824202to slow down and left the motorway in favour of an A-road to allow  him to safely  stop 
repeatedly to wipe the windscreen.
The following  morning Mr O says he tried the wipers again  and they worked. He contacted 
Motonovo again but as they had no available bookings, they referred  him to the specialist  
garage used previously.  It said Mr O would  be wasting  money  attempting  diagnostics on an 
issue that wasnt currently live as the system couldnt pick it up. Mr O insisted  and a 
diagnostics test was performed  and showed  a number of faults but didnt detect a problem 
with the wipers. 
On 14 January 2019, the dealership took the car back  and provided Mr O with a courtesy 
car. It couldnt find a fault with the wipers and asked Mr O to collect  the car. Mr O refused, as 
he didnt want to accept  another  repair. He says he had lost all faith in both the car and the 
dealership and asked to reject the car.
In its final response dated 15 January 2019. Motonovo  didnt uphold Mr Os complaint and 
allow him to reject the vehicle. It said it would complete repairs  to the wiper motor  and boot 
free and provide the cars service history.
Dissatisfied, Mr O brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked  into things for 
Mr O. He found Motonovo had two attempts at repairing the windscreen wipers/motor unit 
and attempts to repair the boot. The investigator agreed Mr O should be allowed to reject the 
vehicle as he was still reporting intermittent issues with the wipers and the boot was in need 
of further repair. He asked Motonovo to:
1.allow Mr O to reject the car;
2.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
3.refund  Mr O his deposit plus 8% simple  interest from date paid until refund;
4.refund  for any diagnostics/garage  visits that Motonovo havent contributed 
towards;
5.refund  one monthly payment for no hire car provided for the August 2018 repair;
6.refund  any monthly  payments for loss of use since 25 January 2019
7.pay Mr O £200 for distress and inconvenience;
8.remove any information  relating  to this finance agreement from Mr Os credit  file.
Mr O agreed  generally  with the investigators  view,  but didnt  feel the compensation  for the 
distress  and inconvenience  reflected  the trouble  and upset  this matter  had caused.
Motonovo  disagreed  with the investigators  findings.  It said it doesnt  agree  there  is evidence  
to suggest  the faults  were  present  at the point  of sale and the car has travelled  24,014  
miles  since  purchase.  It says this proves  there  was no fault present  at the point  of sale.  It 
asked  for an ombudsman  review.
my provisional decision
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  I looked at all the information  from both parties. 
Having done so, I said I was in agreement  with the investigators view that this complaint 
should be upheld  but because  I reached  a different outcome in terms of redress,  I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to present  any further submissions 
they would  like me to consider before I issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN48824203Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what  I think is more 
likely to be the case based upon the information available.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr O acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result,  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car, the 
price paid, fitness for purpose and safety and durability. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault arises within the first 6 months, its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt at 
repair. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer  can reject the car.
I said I was persuaded  that opportunity was in March 2018  and again  in August 2018 when 
repairs to the boot were  attempted  and failed, as Mr O is still experiencing problems with it. 
The issue  with the windscreen wipers have  been Mr Os main cause of concern. This is 
because despite  two attempts to repair the problem with the wipers and/or the wiper motor, 
Mr O still reported intermittent problems.  This directly led to a very distressing and 
hazardous situation  whilst driving  on the motorway in heavy rain.
I explained it was clear the wiper issue has been difficult to assess as following two 
opportunities to repair, there was no evidence, when the investigator  issued his view that the 
fault remained. But, on 15 January 2020, an independent inspection  was carried  out on the 
car. It found and evident fault relating to the wiper  motor control module no communication 
implausible signal and mechanical  failure. Motonovo  has also had sight of this report. I said 
whilst I appreciated, the independent engineer says he doesnt find the fault to have been 
likely developing  at the point of sale; the engineer  has reached that assessment based upon 
the inspection  of a fault in 2020.  Im required to reach a decision on the balance of 
probabilities based on all the available  evidence. 
Mr O acquired  the car in January  2018  and within one month  experienced a number of 
issues, leading to a 19-page document  detailing a number of faults including but not limited  
to: a rear lid motor one electrical error  (boot), rain/light recognition sensor and cruise  control.
Some, if not all the faults seem to be linked  to some form of electrical failure. Indeed  there is 
further evidence  from the independent  diagnostics garage who looked at the car in February  
2018, that the compartment with all the wiring  in had been  accessed and made a mess of 
which had resulted in some of the wiring  being trapped? As this was diagnosed within one 
month of Mr O acquiring the car, this suggests  to me there were at least  developing faults at 
the point of sale. And so, I said, I dont think the independent report is sufficient to rebut  the 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply  when all the 
information available is taken into account
I also said I wasnt persuaded by Motonovos argument that Mr O has driven the car and so 
this is proof  there was no fault at the point of supply. Im of the opinion the evidence clearly 
Ref: DRN48824204shows intermittent and recurring faults,  meaning there would be times when Mr O could use 
it and others  when he could not.
I could see there has already been two attempted repairs at the issues with boot, which 
Motonovo has acknowledged  in its final response  and offered to repair  again,  free of charge. 
There have been  two attempted repairs at the windscreen wiper  issue  and the latest 
independent report  confirms the fault remains. So, when the car failed again, the relevant 
legislation doesnt  allow Motonovo  to attempt a further repair and the correct  action  should  
have been to allow the car to be rejected and to terminate the finance agreement. In those 
circumstances, I would also expect  a business to consider the lack of use and the distress 
and inconvenience  the issues had caused.
I also considered Mr Os frightening report of the failure of the windscreen wipers whilst 
driving on a busy motorway, during heavy rain, with his family in the car. This is a serious  
safety issue, I can understand  the distress this must  have caused Mr O, alongside the 
frustration of trying to get the issues with the car resolved, and so Ive increased the amount 
of redress for distress and inconvenience  in recognition of this.
my provisional decision
I said, for the reasons I have given I intend  to ask FirstRand Bank  Limited to:
1.allow Mr O to reject the car;
2.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
3.refund  Mr O his deposit plus 8% simple  interest from date paid until refund;
4.refund  for any diagnostics/garage  visits that Motonovo havent contributed 
towards;
5.refund  one monthly payment for no hire car provided for the August 2018 repair;
6.refund  any monthly  payments for loss of use since 25 January 2019
7.pay Mr O £400 for distress and inconvenience;
8.remove any information  relating  to this finance agreement from Mr Os credit  file.
responses to my provision decision
Mr O responded and broadly agreed with my findings and welcomed the acknowledgment of 
the stress  and inconvenience this matter has caused him and his family. But, he still feels 
the compensation in respect of this should be much  higher to reflect the impact  this matter 
has had.
Motonovo says it follows a fair usage policy of retaining one normal monthly  instalment for 
every 1000  miles a customer covers. It says as this customer  covered in excess  of 25,000 
miles since purchasing the vehicle,  this indicates  that it was fit for purpose at the point of 
sale. It asks to retain all of the payments made  by Mr O for the period of time he had use of 
the car. It also says it not contractually  obliged to provide the customer with a courtesy  
vehicle whilst their vehicle  is in for repairs, if the dealer has one available then they can offer 
it. We are able to offer £25 per day towards  a hire vehicle if customers  will be adversely 
affected without  their vehicle  but this is done on a case-by-case basis and as a gesture of 
goodwill. It asked me to consider these additional submissions before reaching my final 
decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN48824205Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I thank both parties  for responding to my 
provisional decision. I have looked  at all the information from both parties afresh  and 
considered the additional  submission made. Having done so, I havent seen anything  to 
persuade me to alter my provisional view. Ill explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to think about the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. 
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So, it seems  likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances include things like the age and mileage  at 
the time of sale and the vehicles history. Under  the relevant  law, the quality  of the goods 
includes their general  state  and condition and other things like their fitness  for purpose,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of 
the quality of goods.
Mr O and Motonovo disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point  of supply, which  
made it not of satisfactory quality. Where  the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr O acquired  the car in January  2018  and within one month  experienced a number of 
issues, leading to a 19-page document  detailing a number of faults including but not limited  
to: a rear lid motor one electrical error  (boot), rain/light recognition sensor and cruise  control.
I havent seen  any evidence to change my view that there has already been two attempted 
repairs at the issues  with boot, which Motonovo has acknowledged in its final response and 
offered to repair again, free of charge. There have been two attempted  repairs  at the 
windscreen wiper issue and the latest  independent report confirms the fault remains. So, 
when the car failed  again, the relevant  legislation  doesnt allow Motonovo to attempt a 
further repair and the law gives Mr O the right to reject a car and to terminate the finance  
agreement.
I appreciate Motonovo make the argument  that the car has travelled over 25,000 miles and 
as such, this means the car couldnt  have had faults present at the point of sale  but I 
disagree. By their nature,  some faults can be intermittent  but that does  not mean they dont 
exist. The nature of the faults Mr O told us about  would not have prevented him from driving 
the car. So, I dont  agree  that just because Mr O was able to drive the car, at times, 
undermines his submission that the car was not of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied. 
On balance, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that the faults were present at the time the 
car was supplied and that this means  that the car was not of satisfactory  quality. It follows  
that I think it is fair and reasonable  to hold Motonovo responsible for this. 
I also dont find it fair and reasonable that Mr O should have  to pay for a car he couldnt use, 
especially given the safety concerns he had and so I will be asking Motonovo to refund any 
monthly payments for loss of use since 25 January 2019.
Ref: DRN48824206I acknowledge  Motonovos  point  about  not being  contractually  obliged  to provide  a hire 
car. But, in looking  at what  is fair and reasonable,  this was the second  attempt  at the 
boot repair  and I find one month  payment  reasonable  redress  for the period  of time 
Mr O was without  a car whilst  the repairs  were  carried  out.
With regard  to Mr Os concern  regarding  the redress  for trouble  and upset  this matter  
has caused  him. I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Instead, this service looks to resolve individual  complaints between  a 
consumer and a business. Should  we decide  that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible,  in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I appreciate this matter  has been very stressful for Mr O, and I dont wish to underplay  the 
stress and difficulties these errors have caused, but I have increased the redress  from the 
investigators view and for the reasons  given,  I think the award is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I direct FirstRand Bank Limited to:
1.allow Mr O to reject the car;
2.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
3.refund  Mr O his deposit plus 8% simple  interest from date paid until refund;
4.refund  for any diagnostics/garage  visits that Motonovo havent contributed 
towards;
5.refund  one monthly payment for no hire car provided for the August 2018 repair;
6.refund  any monthly  payments for loss of use since 25 January 2019
7.pay Mr O £400 for distress and inconvenience;
8.remove any information  relating  to this finance agreement from Mr Os credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4882420