K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the amount by which Aviva Insurance Limited increased the 
premium for his home  insurance policy after he made a claim.
background
In January 2018 Mr M made a claim to Aviva after a theft from his home.
His home insurance policy was due to renew on 1 May 2018. On 3 April 2018 Aviva  wrote to 
Mr M telling him that his premium would go up from £193.24 to £396.35.
Mr M didnt  think  such a large increase was justified. He complained to Aviva. It said the 
increase was partly down  to the claim hed made  and also the loss of his no claims discount 
the claim had caused. It said the premium it had quoted was correct.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. He 
thought Aviva had treated Mr M the same as it would any other customer  with the same  
circumstances.
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to tell Aviva  how much it should  charge  Mr M for his home insurance. Thats 
for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of him needing to make a claim and 
its wider commercial requirements. What I can do though, when a consumer complains 
about the price  he or shes been charged, is look at whether the insurer  has treated the 
consumer fairly and whether it can explain why its charged the price it has.
Where I consider that the consumer  has been  treated unfairly  I might  require the insurer  to 
pay some  form of compensation.
We asked Aviva to show us how it calculated Mr Ms 2018 premium. I cant  share the 
information its provided to us with Mr M because its commercially  sensitive and confidential.  
But Id like to reassure  him that Ive checked it carefully. Having  done  so, I can see that 
Aviva took Mr Ms previous claim and the loss of his no claims discount into account when 
calculating the 2018 premium. It also changed its view of the risk category that Mr Ms 
property was in.
Im satisfied that Aviva has calculated  Mr Ms premium fairly  and in the same way as it would 
for any of its customers with similar  circumstances. So I cant say that its treated him any 
differently or singled him out in any way. I dont think its treated him unfairly.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN47778572Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4777857