K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Bank Limited  carried out two credit searches when he applied 
for a credit card and that these have both been  recorded on his credit file.
background 
In late 2018, Mr M applied online for a Tandem credit card.  He says that the web browser  
froze part way through his application and an error message appeared. He contacted 
Tandem using their web chat service  and asked them to confirm  whether his application had 
been successful.  Two days later, one of Tandems agents responded and said that Mr M 
needed to review and accept his offer. Mr M says he returned  to the website that day 
expecting to access the offer, but instead  a message appeared saying that his application 
had been declined.
Shortly afterwards, Mr M discovered that Tandem  had carried out two credit  searches which  
had both been recorded on his credit file. He contacted Tandem again and asked them  to 
remove the second search immediately. Mr M didnt receive a response straight  away,  so he 
brought a complaint to this service. 
When Tandem issued  their final response  letter, they upheld Mr Ms complaint and agreed  to 
remove one of the searches from his credit file.
Our adjudicator thought that was fair and that Tandem didnt need to do any more. But Mr M 
didnt agree, so his complaint has been  passed to an ombudsman to be reviewed. He says 
the situation has had a serious impact on his health, causing him to take time off work. Hes 
also unhappy with the amount of time Tandem took to respond to his complaint. So he thinks  
they should pay him compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen, its clear that when Mr M went  on to the Tandem  website for 
the second time, a new (second) application was started and thats  why a second credit  
search was carried out.  Tandem say they had advised Mr M to click on the link review  your 
existing offer, rather than apply afresh. But they accept that he only intended to apply once, 
so they have agreed to remove the second search. I think  thats a fair approach.
I find it unlikely that Mr M would have had the option to review his existing offer because 
both applications  were declined. So the information Mr M was given by the agent seems to 
have been incorrect.  But the applications were both declined for the same  reason, which  
was that Mr M didnt meet Tandems lending criteria.  So, although Tandem havent been 
able to explain why there was an error during Mr Ms first application, Im satisfied that it 
didnt affect the outcome.
This means  that, even if the web browser  hadnt  frozen, Mr Ms application  would have been  
declined. So, if the second search  is removed from his records,  Mr M has been  put back  in 
the position hed have  been in if the second  application and search had never  been  made.  I 
think thats a fair outcome here.
Ref: DRN40456862I realise that Mr M feels  strongly that Tandem  should pay him compensation as well. Hes 
unhappy with the amount of time they took to respond to the complaint. They  had eight 
weeks to do so and they sent their final response letter one day after that. I dont think  thats 
an unreasonable amount of time to respond and I dont think the extra day had a significant 
impact on Mr M. So I dont think they need to pay compensation for that.
Mr M also says that the situation has caused him a great deal of stress  and that he has 
needed to take time off work. When he first complained to Tandem, he wanted them to put 
things right by removing the second  search from his credit file. They upheld his complaint 
and agreed to resolve it by doing just that. I know Mr M feels  strongly about the situation, so 
my decision  will be disappointing to him, but I dont think it would be fair to ask Tandem to 
pay compensation here. They  dealt with the complaint within  a reasonable timescale  and 
upheld it. 
Part of the problem  here is that Mr M doesnt  seem to have received Tandems final 
response letter. I dont  have any information  about  why that might be, but Im satisfied it was 
sent to the right address.  So I cant conclude  that it was Tandems fault if Mr M didnt receive  
it. If he had received it shortly after it was posted, I expect some of the distress  he has 
experienced would have  been avoided. Its very unfortunate  that he didnt receive  it, but I 
dont find that to be Tandems fault so it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them  to compensate  
Mr M for that. So Im not going  to ask them to do any more  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint,  in that I think  Tandem have already 
done enough to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4045686