K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a credit account. Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Miss R says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss R opened a credit account in a shop  in 1999. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Rs account 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he said 
that Miss R suffered from a medical  condition when she took the PPI out, which wouldnt 
have been covered by it. And he didnt  think Miss R would have taken the policy if FICL had 
made it clear  enough to her that she wouldnt  be able to claim for that condition.  
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss R 
and to FICL  on 26 March  2019. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Miss Rs application  for the account. It includes  a section on PPI. 
There are brief details  of the cover, and it instructs the applicant to sign in a box below if 
they wish to take the cover. Miss R signed  specifically to indicate that she wished to take 
the cover, in addition  to signing the form overall. I thought that it would have been clear  
to Miss R from the way the form was set out that the PPI was optional. And given that 
she signed specifically to take the cover, I thought she decided  to take it, knowing that 
she had a choice - although I could understand why she may no longer remember this, 
so many  years later.
Based on what we know about  how FICL usually sold PPI at the time, I didnt think  it was 
likely that it advised  Miss R personally to take it out. So it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave  Miss R good  enough  information  
to enable her to decide for herself  if she wanted  PPI, knowing what alternative  means  
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ref: DRN44338132Miss Rs told us shed have been entitled to less than three  months sick pay from her 
employer at the time. If shed made  a successful claim on the PPI, it would  have paid a 
monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her account. And it would have done this 
each month until her credit agreement  ended,  or she returned  to work, or the outstanding 
balance had been repaid  - whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have 
covered Miss R for significantly longer than shed have been entitled to sick pay for. 
Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments she received from her 
employer. And she wouldnt have had to use her limited savings to make her account  
repayments. So I thought the policy could have been useful for Miss R.
It was possible the information FICL gave Miss R about  the cost of the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But I was satisfied that it would have  been  clear from the 
application form that there would be monthly  premiums to pay for the cover. Id seen 
nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Miss R. And as she was paying 
for it monthly,  she could  have cancelled it without  any further cost if her situation  
changed.
I acknowledged that Miss Rs told us she suffered from a medical  condition  when she 
took the policy out. But shes  told us shed had the condition  since  birth, and at the point 
when she took the PPI out, she hadnt  had any time off work for it. So based on what Id 
seen so far, I didnt  think that when Miss R took the PPI out, shed have thought  it likely 
that shed need  to claim on the policy for time off work  due to her medical condition.
Miss R could potentially have claimed  successfully  if shed been off sick with any 
unrelated condition, or if she lost her job. So I didnt  think, on balance, that shed have 
made a different decision about  taking the PPI cover if shed been given better  
information about the exclusions  relating to existing medical conditions.  And she didnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the other main things the policy  didnt cover.
Taking everything into account,  based on what Id seen so far, I didnt think  that better 
information about the PPI would have put Miss R off taking it out. So I didnt think shed 
lost out as a result of anything that FICL  may have done wrong.
Id taken into account all Miss Rs comments, including what  shes said about not having 
been told that she could buy the insurance  elsewhere. But FICL wasnt  obliged to tell 
Miss R about products that might  have been  available from other  providers. So this didnt 
change my conclusion. Based  on what Id seen so far, I wasnt  planning to uphold  the 
complaint.
further submissions
Neither Miss R nor FICL has made  any comment following  my provisional decision,  and the 
time for doing  so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Rs case. Having done  so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN44338133my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4433813