K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ts complaint against Cofunds Limited is about the problems shes  had accessing her 
online accounts.
background
In June 2018, Mrs T attempted to activate her two ISA accounts on Cofunds  new website. 
Unfortunately she was only able to access one of the accounts. 
Mrs Ts husband  contacted Cofunds on 12 June 2018. Shes said he made six calls but was 
unable to resolve things. Mrs T complains  that her husband  was put in queues and that 
Cofunds hung up on him and promised emails that never arrived. 
A week later, Mrs Ts financial  advisor  contacted Cofunds to ask that the accounts be held 
together, but not merged,  so Mrs T could view them both under one log in. In August 2018,  
Cofunds told Mrs T that she should  be able to log in and view both accounts,  but she was 
still unable to do so. 
In September  2018, Cofunds  apologised to Mrs T for the inconvenience caused  and offered  
her £100  in compensation. They said Mrs T should  be able to view her accounts by the end 
of the month.   
Unfortunately, the problem wasnt  resolved  and Mrs T brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service. Our investigator looked  into what had happened  and thought  Cofunds 
should do more  to compensate Mrs T. She also said Cofunds  should contact Mrs T directly 
to discuss merging the ISAs to resolve the problems she was having.
While the complaint was with our service, Cofunds  said they were still trying  to find a solution 
to the problems Mrs T was having. They said theyd like to offer Mrs T an additional £175 in 
compensation. Our investigator thought this was reasonable,  but Mrs T disagreed.  She said 
Cofunds still hadnt resolved things and failed to contact  her when promised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cofunds accept  that the introduction of their new website has caused problems for Mrs T in 
accessing her accounts. And they acknowledge  they havent provided Mrs T with a 
satisfactory service in trying  to resolve things.  So the key point I need to look at is what  they 
should do to put things  right. 
Mrs T has been  unable to access her account for some  months.  So shes  been  unable to 
monitor her investments in the way she wanted to. Over this period, Cofunds havent  
responded as quickly  as they should  have to Mrs Ts requests and complaints. And theyve 
told her the problems would be resolved when they havent been. 
Id like to reassure Mrs T that Ive looked  at everything shes said about the service  shes 
received from Cofunds. I appreciate that Cofunds actions have caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs T. 
Ref: DRN44845712But its not our role to punish businesses. Where something has gone wrong, we look at the 
impact its had and whether what the business  has done to put things  right is fair and 
reasonable. And overall, I think Cofunds latest offer to pay Mrs T an additional £175 in 
compensation - bringing the total to £275 - is fair and reasonable. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mrs T was hoping for, but I wont be asking Cofunds to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Cofunds Limiteds offer to 
pay Mrs T a total of £275 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4484571