K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mr H says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr H says that he was advised that taking the PPI would improve  his chances  of getting the 
credit card. He says he wouldve  declined the cover  if hed known  otherwise.  Mr H applied  
for his card and PPI policy  through the post.  Capital One has provided a copy  of his 
application  on this I can see that the PPI is presented  as an optional  product, and has 
been selected. Mr H has then signed the application, agreeing to the information on it. 
Nowhere on the application does it suggest that the inclusion of PPI would influence  the 
acceptance of the application. So taking everything  in to account, I think  Capital One made it 
clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this as it was so long ago. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
Ref: DRN43462412The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
I understand that Mr H has previously  been in an IVA  he may need  to speak with his 
practitioner about any funds hes received. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4346241