K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained that Arrow Global Limited (AGL) failed to supply  paperwork when 
requested relating to a debt. Mrs T is also unhappy with the steps AGL has taken to recover 
this debt and any costs and charges it has added.
Mrs T wants the balance of the debt to be either written off or reduced to an amount which  
can be demonstrated as payable and fair, as well as £100 compensation. 
background
In 2012 AGL bought  a debt that it says Mrs T owed to a financial business  on a store card.  
Mrs T paid regular monthly amounts towards  the debt until June 2017. 
Mrs T has said that AGL did a number of things wrong  since taking over the debt, as set out 
above. She has also said the card should never have been  given to her in the first place, 
given her circumstances.  Mrs T had asked AGL for a number of documents including  her 
credit agreement. 
AGL accepted that it took longer  than it expected to deal with this request and apologised. 
But AGL said it hadnt added  any interest  or charges  to the debt. While the credit agreement 
isnt available, it said it can still ask Mrs T to pay back the debt. It also said the original 
creditor was responsible for the decision to lend to Mrs T in the first place, so she should 
contact them  with any complaint about  the lending decision. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with AGLs response  to her complaint and referred her complaint to our 
service.
In summary,  our investigator found  that AGL hadnt done anything  wrong.  Mrs T didnt 
accept our investigators findings.  She said as AGL were unable  to get a copy of the credit 
agreement the debt is unenforceable and that AGL should cease collection. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs T has raised  a number of complaint points and Ill address them below under different 
headings. 
the delay in responding to Mrs Ts request for her credit agreement 
Both parties  agree that AGL took longer than expected when responding to Mrs Ts request 
for a copy  of her credit agreement. AGL said that the delay was because they were waiting 
on a response from the initial creditor. During  this time whilst she was awaiting a response 
from AGL, Mrs Ts account was placed on hold and no charges or interest were added. 
So I cant fairly say that shes lost out as a result of this delay. AGL has apologised for the 
delay, and I think thats fair.
Ref: DRN48893662the initial decision to lend to Mrs T.
Mrs T has complained that the creditor shouldnt have lent to her in the first place. But the 
lending decision wasnt made by AGL and isnt their responsibility. Therefore,  I cant  
consider the lending decision  as part of this complaint against AGL. 
If Mrs T is unhappy  with the lending  decision  she has the option to complain to the lender. 
But as the event took place a number of years  ago, she should be aware that there  are time 
limits that usually apply  for bringing complaints. 
the debt owed 
Nothing Mrs T has said leads me to conclude AGL should have thought there was a problem 
with the debt when it bought it. It also seems more  likely than not that the debt owed was 
accurate. I say this because Ive seen statements issued by both the original creditor  and 
AGL  which have  also been sent to Mrs T  and theres no evidence  that Mrs T queried the 
amount owed with the initial creditor before AGL bought  the debt. And Ive noted that Mrs T 
continued to make regular payments from 2013  until 2017 which suggests that she accepted  
she owed the debt. 
Although Mrs T has complained about  charges and interest thatve been added  to the debt, I 
havent seen evidence that AGL have  increased the debt or added any interest  or charges 
since theyve bought the debt.
the enforceability of the debt and the steps  AGL has taken to recover it 
Mrs T requested that AGL provide her with a copy of her original credit agreement.  AGL 
have been unable to obtain a copy of it. Whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is a 
matter for a court to decide  thats not something I have the power  to determine.  
It also doesnt seem that AGL have tried to mislead  Mrs T about not having a copy  of her 
credit agreement when  shes enquired.  But as Im satisfied that Mrs T owes  the debt, I dont 
think AGL has treated  her unfairly  in asking her to repay it. 
I find the tone and frequency of the correspondence Ive seen about this to be reasonable.
other information Mrs T requested from AGL
Mrs T is also unhappy that some other information she requested wasnt provided  to her - in 
particular, a copy of the deed of assignment  and information on how much AGL paid for her 
debt. 
AGL has said that this is sensitive information between them and the creditor that they arent 
obliged to provide it. So I dont think that theyve acted unreasonably.
conclusion
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, I think that AGL have treated Mrs T fairly 
and reasonably since taking over the debt. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN48893663I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4889366