K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  caused inconvenience and delay in the way in 
which it dealt with a claim on his motor insurance.
background
Mr F insures  his car with Aviva. In 2015  he was involved in a minor incident with another  car 
and the other driver reported  it to their insurance  company. Mr F notified Aviva  and said he 
would deal with the third partys insurer direct. There were  some  emails between  them  but 
Mr F heard nothing further from the third party  insurer for over two years.
In early 2018, the third party insurer notified  Aviva  that it was seeking around £650  as the 
costs of dealing  with its drivers claim.  Aviva  told Mr F. Mr F asked  Aviva  to send him the 
evidence of the claim so that he could consider it and decide whether to settle,  negotiate or 
defend the claim  himself  or make  a claim on his insurance so that Aviva could deal with it.
Mr F complains that Aviva didnt  respond  to repeated  requests. It didnt send him the 
evidence. So he couldnt reply to the third party insurer  in a substantive way. A few weeks 
later the third party insurer issued proceedings. Mr F again contacted Aviva and again didnt 
receive replies. So he drafted a defence to the claim himself. He says it took him three  hours 
to do so, and he says his professional charge out rate is £350  per hour.
Mr F finally received the evidence, and decided to leave the claim to Aviva,  which settled it 
on his behalf.  Mr F complained that Avivas delays and failure to respond made the process  
more lengthy and difficult than it needed  to be. If hes had the evidence Aviva  had received 
from the third party insurer sooner he wouldnt  have  needed to spend time chasing  for it and 
its likely  proceedings  would never  have  been issued  saving the time he spent on drafting 
the defence.
Aviva accepted that it hadnt dealt with Mr F well. It offered him £300 compensation, which 
our investigator thought  was fair. Mr F didnt agree. He wanted  at least  £500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Fs frustration at what happened  in this case. He thought the claim against 
him wasnt proceeding, only to be contacted after a gap of two years. Aviva didnt send him 
the evidence he asked for  I think it should have done  and didnt reply  to the many emails 
and calls he sent. 
Once hed seen the evidence, and considered the time and cost involved in defending the 
claim, Mr F decided not to do so. Instead  he left it to Aviva to do so on his behalf. I agree 
that its likely  hed have  made that decision sooner if hed seen the evidence sooner. If that 
had happened, he wouldnt have needed  to spend  time drafting  the defence  though 
equally he wouldnt have had to do that if hed decided to leave the claim to Aviva rather  
than dealing with it himself.
Ref: DRN45619102So I agree that Aviva  should compensate Mr F for the delay and inconvenience these 
failures caused. The issue in this case is what would  be fair compensation. Aviva  has offered 
£300; Mr F wants  at least £500.
Theres no claim for financial loss here.  Mr F says he spent  three hours drafting the defence,  
and his usual  hourly rate is £350.  Presumably  he spent more  time dealing with Aviva as well. 
But he hasnt said that he did this in working  hours,  at the expense  of other work he could 
have been doing, and hasnt provided  evidence of lost income  or work  turned away because  
of it. So I dont think his professional hourly rate is the right starting  point.
Instead, Ive thought about the overall impact of what went wrong  here in terms of the 
non-financial loss caused to Mr F  whats referred to under our rules as compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I accept it was inconvenient for Mr F to be put to additional time 
and trouble chasing Aviva for information it could have given him sooner, and for replies it 
could have made to his emails and calls. Ive taken into account the overall  time over which  
this happened. Ive also considered the guidelines for awards of compensation to be found 
on our website  whilst also remembering that theyre guidelines and examples, and not in 
any sense a tariff.
Taking everything into account,  I think Avivas offer of £300  was fair in all the circumstances.  
I dont therefore  intend to ask it to do anything further to put matters  right in this case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Aviva  Insurance Limiteds offer of £300 is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  It should pay that sum to Mr F, if it hasnt done 
so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4561910