K821x#15complaint
Miss E says Elevate Credit International  Limited  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Sunny provided  Miss E with twelve loans between September 2016 and July 2017.  Miss Es 
lending history is detailed  below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest Total 
Monthly Repayment
1 06/09/2016 12/10/2016 6 £1,500 £203.99
2 12/10/2016 13/02/2017 6 £1,000 £133.37
3 25/10/2016 09/11/2016 6 £500 £203.97
4 23/11/2016 18/01/2017 6 £600 £217.88
5 11/01/2017 13/02/2017 6 £600 £298.12
6 07/02/2017 29/06/2017 6 £1,000 £348.87
7 08/03/2017 04/04/2017 6 £500
8 23/03/2017 outstanding 6 £900
9 18/04/2017 08/06/2017 6 £400
10 25/05/2017 outstanding 6 £500
11 15/06/2017 outstanding 6 £300
12 13/07/2017 outstanding 6 £200
Sunny made a partial  offer on loan eleven onwards to Miss E before the complaint was 
referred to our service.  An adjudicator reviewed Miss Es case  and thought that Sunny  
shouldnt have given  Miss E any of the loans.  The adjudicator said that had Sunny carried  
out proportionate checks and considered the information it had about Miss E it wouldve 
seen she was not in a position to take on this borrowing as she had existing commitments.  
The adjudicator also thought that loan six onwards shouldnt have been  given  to Miss E as 
her borrowing history  suggested she had become reliant on short term lending. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  review  and said it carried out adequate checks and 
these didnt reveal anything of concern. Sunny did however make a goodwill offer to write off 
Miss Es outstanding  balances for the loans which at the time was around £953.55. This 
offer was put to Miss E but she did not accept it.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN42384502Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain
factors might  point  to the fact that Sunny should  fairly  and reasonably have done more  to
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
whether Miss E could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow his
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Es complaint. I dont think Miss E shouldve  been
given the twelve  loans and Ill explain why.
Sunny says it carried out checks on Miss E when she applied  for her first loan with them. 
This included obtaining  details of her income  and expenditure.  Sunny says based on this 
information the loan was affordable and appropriate  for Miss E. I can see Miss E was 
borrowing a significant  amount for her first loan with Sunny  and it was due to be spread  over 
14 repayments. So this means Sunny had to carry out thorough checks. I can see it 
gathered details of her income and expenditure. However, I think  it shouldve been  looking to 
build a more detailed picture of Miss Es financial situation. I say this as more thorough  
checks wouldve revealed Miss E had existing borrowing with four other  lender at the time 
she applied  for loan one. Miss E also had at least five other  forms of revolving  credit  facilities 
in use. And it looks as though Miss E was paying over £1,000 a month already to these other 
credit commitments.   If Sunny had carried out proportionate checks  it wouldve seen Miss E 
was having issues  managing her finances  and although loan one may have seemed 
Ref: DRN42384503appropriate based on a strict  pounds to pence calculation, Miss Es overall circumstances 
indicated that she was relying on short term credit  to cover  ongoing shortfalls  and lending  
was not appropriate. Which means Sunny shouldnt have given Miss E loans one to five. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss E with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Es case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss E was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss E had taken out six loans  in just around  five months. Miss E 
also had loan two and loans five still outstanding when she applied  for loan six. 
Miss Es loans were  often taken out days or weeks within  a previous loan being paid. 
So Sunny ought to have  realised it was more  likely  than not Miss E was having to 
borrow further to cover  the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Miss Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Es first loan was for £1,500  and her subsequent loans varied in amount
considerably. But most  importantly there  didnt seem  to be a downward  trend  in the
amount Miss E was borrowing and loan six was for £1,000.  At this point Sunny ought 
to have known  that Miss E was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in 
her income but to meet an ongoing need.
Miss E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Sunny. Loan six was
taken out around  five months after Miss Es first and her final loan was taken out 
almost a year after her first. Miss E had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, 
service a debt to Sunny over an extended  period.
I think that Miss E lost out because  Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss E borrowed was likely to
have had negative  implications on Miss Es ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans one to twelve  and Sunny  should put things
right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Elevate Credit International Limited shouldnt have given Miss E loans one to twelve.
Ref: DRN42384504If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
 
A)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Miss E towards  
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Sunny has already refunded. 
B)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Miss E which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss E 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C)Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Miss E as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Miss E 
having made overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Sunny should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Miss E. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Miss E. 
E)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Miss Es credit file 
in relation to loan 1 - 5. The overall  pattern of Miss Es borrowing for loans 6 -12 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove  
these loans entirely from Miss Es credit file. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it 
should ask the debt purchaser to do the same. Sunny do not have to remove  any 
outstanding loans from Miss Es credit file until these have been repaid, but it should 
still remove any adverse information  recorded  about these loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give Miss E a 
certificate showing  how much tax youve deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Es complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should put things right for Miss E as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Miss E to accept or reject my decision
before 6 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238450