K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003.  Mr W says Barclays  Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I say this 
because he has ticked the credit card application form to say that, yes, he wants the 
PPI, when he couldve have  ticked it to say no he didnt want  the PPI, and he has 
signed the form.
Barclays recommended the PPI and advised  Mr W to take it. So Barclays was 
required to sell Mr W a policy that was suitable for him and I think  it did. I say this 
because, based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Although  
he had 3-6 months of sick pay entitlement from his employer, he had no savings, and 
the PPI would have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance  on his credit card for up 
to 12 months in addition  to his sick pay, or if he lost his job. Ive thought about the 
180 day period hed have  had to wait after the policy was sold to make a claim if he 
became unemployed. But I dont think hed have been put off buying the PPI by this 
as hed been in his job for a number  of years and I think its unlikely hed have 
thought he would lose his job soon. And at 79p per £100  of the balance on his credit  
card, it looks like the PPI was affordable  for him. So I think  Mr W would have found 
this cover useful.
Barclays also had to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like 
he wanted this type of cover and as Ive said above the policy  was suitable for him so 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
So overall I think Mr W would have taken  out the policy even if he were better 
advised and fully informed, so he hasnt  lost out due to anything Barclays did wrong.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said including his response to the adjudicators  view.  
He said that the policy  didnt cover  his job which involved  manual handling  that could lead to 
back injury. But Ive looked at the policy and it did not exclude his type of work or back pain 
injury. So his points  dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN41756502But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc trading  as Barclaycard does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard does  have  to pay back  to Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4175650