K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  was irresponsible to lend to 
him.
Mr J wants Mr Lender to refund the interest that he paid, together with interest  on the refund. 
Mr J also wants  Mr Lender to remove any negative entries about the loan from his credit  file.
background
Mr J took out one instalment loan with Mr Lender in November 2016.  Mr J borrowed £200  
that he was due to repay over six months.  The maximum monthly repayment was £73.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
Mr Lender carried out adequate  checks before agreeing  to lend. The adjudicator thought  that 
based on the information Mr Lender  held about Mr J, it was reasonable to agree to lend.
Mr J disagrees  with the adjudicators recommendation.  He says that he already had a few 
payday loans  at the time. Mr J says that hed also just taken out a large loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Mr J could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. These checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Mr J hadnt borrowed from Mr Lender before so there wasnt any lending history  to consider.  
The maximum monthly repayment on the loan represented a fairly small proportion of Mr Js 
declared income of £1,170. I think it wouldve been  reasonable of Mr Lender to agree to lend 
based on his income  alone. 
Mr Lender went  further than this and asked Mr J to give it details of his monthly expenses. It 
also carried out a credit check. Based  on the information Mr J gave, it looked  as though he 
had just under £680 in disposable income  and the credit check  didnt show  anything  of 
concern.
I think that it was reasonable of Mr Lender to have a degree  of confidence that the 
information that Mr J gave about his income and outgoings  was correct. Mr Lender says that 
the credit  search  didnt  show any other  outstanding payday loans on Mr Js credit file. So I 
dont think Mr Lender missed any obvious  signs of a dependency on short term lending. And 
I dont think Mr Lender needed to independently verify the financial information that Mr J 
gave by asking  to see bank statements for example.
I understand that Mr Js financial  situation  was worse than he told Mr Lender.  But I wouldnt 
have expected proportionate  checks to have revealed this. 
Ref: DRN40487512Overall, I cant say that Mr Lender was wrong to agree to lend to Mr J. I appreciate  that this 
is likely  to come as a disappointment. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4048751