K820x#14complaint
Ms and Mr B complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt tell them  
that it had cheaper  mortgage products available. 
Ms and Mr B think Halifax should have  told them  about these. They  want  Halifax  to 
reimburse the difference, and pay them compensation too.
background
In 2005, Ms and Mr B went to a mortgage  broker, who recommended  a Halifax mortgage. 
Ms and Mr B took a Halifax mortgage  for £275,000 plus £399  fees which were added  to the 
loan. The mortgage was on an interest only basis over 25 years.  It had a fixed rate of 5.05% 
until 31 March 2011.
Ms and Mr B werent always  able to make their full monthly payments. They  had a number of 
payment arrangements  over the years.
In March 2011, Halifax sent Ms and Mr B a letter saying  that their 5.05% fixed  mortgage 
product was about to end. So their account would revert to the standard variable rate, which 
was then 3.5%. The letter also said that as Ms and Mr B currently had a payment  
arrangement in place,  theyd  need to keep paying  that higher monthly payment until the end 
of the payment arrangement in May 2011.
Ms and Mr B had a number of other payment  arrangements over the next few years.
In December 2018, a friend of Ms B told her that she should check the interest  rate she was 
paying on her mortgage.  Ms and Mr Bs contractual monthly payment at the time was 
£1,005.18. Ms B contacted  Halifax  and was offered a different product from 1 January  2019. 
The new contractual monthly payment  was £531.15,  around  half what theyd been paying.
Ms and Mr B complained to Halifax that the bank hadnt contacted  them before about their 
interest rate. They said that as valued  customers,  Halifax should have contacted them  
before about cheaper deals, and they wanted  a refund of the extra  theyd paid.
Halifax didnt uphold  Ms and Mr Bs complaint. It said that it appreciated the new product 
was a significant reduction. But Halifax said that it wasnt the banks process to contact 
customers to advise  them or prompt them to take a new rate. It said that the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, shared Halifaxs view that it was reasonable to expect 
customers to be proactive in managing their financial affairs.  Halifax pointed out that annual 
mortgage statements  confirmed that customers could get in touch at any point to discuss  
their mortgage.
Ms and Mr B werent satisfied and complained to this service.  They  said they were  appalled 
that at no stage in the last 12 years had Halifax ever advised or suggested they could  move  
to a better  deal and pay half what theyd actually been paying. They said that based on a 
£500 saving every month over 12 years, Halifax had greedily hived off £72,000 which  was 
daylight robbery . Ms and Mr B said they wanted Halifax to reimburse this money with 
compensation, as it was an underhand  and maybe even illegal practice.  They thought  there 
must be a code of practice that Halifax  should  have followed.
Ref: DRN44109852The investigator didnt  uphold Ms and Mr Bs complaint. She explained that lenders dont 
have to contact  mortgage  customers to tell them about other interest rates  which might be 
available. Ms B had told the investigator that shed never looked for any alternative rates 
until December 2018. But the investigator said that if Ms and Mr B had applied for a rate 
change, Halifax  could consider their application  for a product change  as it had in 
December 2018.
The investigator also pointed out that Halifax had written to Ms and Mr B in March  2011, 
telling them the fixed rate was expiring and the account would be on the standard variable 
rate. So the investigator thought Halifax had acted reasonably by letting them  know when 
the fixed rate expired, so they could look at alternative rates.
Ms and Mr B said they still disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to look at their case. 
They felt theyd been exploited by Halifax due to their lack of awareness. Theyd been 
relying on the expertise of Halifax to advise  them  properly.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ms and Mr B feel strongly about  this. But there are no rules which say lenders 
have a duty to tell customers when they could get a better deal.  Whenever  customers 
contact a lender  to ask about  possible changes, a lender  will tell them  whats available, and 
will check whether the customers meet the criteria for any cheaper product. Thats what  
happened when  Ms and Mr B contacted  Halifax in December 2018. 
I dont think Halifax was in breach  of the rules  in not getting in touch with Ms and Mr B before 
that. As well as the rules, I have to take into account good industry practice in deciding  
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  I note that the industry trade  body, UK 
Finance, agreed  with most mortgage lenders  including Halifax  that they would contact 
customers who were on the standard variable rate but could benefit from switching to a new 
product by December  2018. I think that amounts to good industry  practice. But I dont think it 
makes a difference in this case,  because Ms and Mr B did switch to a new rate by December 
2018.
I also have to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  taking into 
account the rules  and good practice. As there was no rule or good  practice  that required 
Halifax to contact Ms and Mr B before December  2018, and it did tell them their previous 
product was expiring  so they could apply  for a new one if they wanted to, I dont think  its 
treated them  unfairly.
I recognise that Ms and Mr B have calculated that they could have saved £72,000 if their 
latest saving of £500 a month  had been  backdated  for 12 years.  But in practice it wouldnt 
have been this much. The product which Ms and Mr Bs broker recommended  to them in 
2005 tied them in to a fixed rate until March 2011:
-so they couldnt have  changed product until then,  without  paying  an early  repayment 
charge (ERC) which applied on a sliding scale until that date; and 
-most  lenders wont change a product while customers  have a payment arrangement 
ongoing. Ms and Mr B had a number of these  over the years.
Ref: DRN44109853So I think its unlikely that, even if Ms and Mr B had approached Halifax earlier  than they did, 
the amount they saved would have  been  as much  as theyve  calculated.  I realise its 
frustrating to find out that they could probably have saved some money after 2011  by 
proactively checking  rates, or taking independent  advice  about what  rates were available 
either with Halifax or elsewhere. But Halifax didnt break any rules,  or treat them unfairly, by 
not advising them of other products.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4410985