K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a loan.  Mr B told us that he 
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch, but Nationwide  said the application was made 
on the telephone. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £373.94  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 48 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £73.08 with the PPI costing an additional £10.51  making the total 
monthly repayment £83.59. 
The policy covered Mr B for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  Mr Bs monthly  loan repayment for up to the remaining term of 
the loan in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr B was working in removals. The information we have been provided in 
respect of his employment  status  is inconsistent. Those representing Mr B told us that he 
was self-employed  and had no sick pay entitlement. Nationwide provided  us with a file note 
of a conversation  it had with Mr B in which it is recorded that he said he was employed. The 
note states that Mr B was unable to recall  the level of that sick pay. It does not appear  to be  
in dispute that Mr B did not have any other means with which  to meet his repayments  if he 
was out of work. 
Mr B told us that when  the PPI was sold, he had suffered from back pain from around 1998.  
He had not received any medical  advice  or treatment in respect  of that condition  and he took 
over the counter painkillers to manage  the condition.  
Nationwide has sent us a copy of Mr Bs loan statement, which shows the loan was repaid in 
October 2004. 
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN48992502The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the 
impact they would have had on hischances  of making a claim; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN48992503complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN48992504-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
In considering this point,  the first thing  for me to decide is how the cover came  to be sold.  As 
I said above, Mr B said the cover  was sold in a meeting, but Nationwide said it was sold on 
the telephone. Looking  at the electronic information thats available from the time, I can see 
that the loan agreement was sent out to Mr B by post and that it was signed and returned 
some time later and after hed had some further telephone contact with Nationwide. So it 
appears to me most likely  that the cover was sold over the telephone. So as Mr B doesnt 
appear to recall the telephone conversation, Ive carefully considered the documentary 
evidence to help me decide whats most  likely to have happened.  
I dont have a call recording  or a call script, which isnt unusual  given  the cover was sold 
over 20 years ago. So I cant know for certain  what was said during that telephone 
conversation. I note that those representing Mr B didnt  specifically  argue  that he wasnt  told 
PPI was optional.  But I do note that it was stated in his PPI questionnaire that the cover was 
presented as part of a package. 
Nationwide provided  us with a copy of Mr Bs loan agreement. I can see from that document  
that the PPI is clearly  presented as optional.  And I think  its also clear  that the insurance is a 
separate financial product. The cost of the cover is given separate, but equal, prominence  to 
the loan repayment. I can see that Mr B was in touch with Nationwide after receiving those 
documents about another matter. So if the PPI had been presented as part of a package or 
anything other than optional on the telephone,  I think Mr B would have raised it with 
Nationwide at the relevant time.  The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest  he did. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN48992505did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  advise Mr B to buy PPI and I note that this wasnt disputed by those 
representing him. For the avoidance of doubt, I havent treated this as an advised sale.  
Thats because I havent seen anything to suggest Nationwide  made  a tailored 
recommendation to Mr B after taking account of his personal circumstances.  
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr B. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr B to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I can see the loan agreement refers to the basic aspects of the cover 
and I think that most likely reflects the content of the telephone conversation. I think its 
unlikely Mr B would  have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was. And 
I think Mr B knew that the single premium being added to the loan was £373.94,  the interest 
added to the premium  was £130.54, the total cost was £504.48 and the monthly  cost was 
£10.51 as this information  was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mr B 
signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
B agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN48992506Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr B says he would  not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr B was given  about the cost was probably clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr B would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  that Mr B knew  
about or should reasonably have  known about  at the start date of the policy; or any 
medical condition  or disease for which he had received treatment, advice or was 
referred for investigation in the 12 months before the start date of the policy  and 
which recurred within 12 months of the start date.   
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
Ref: DRN48992507The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do any work as certified by a doctor.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr B says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because the condition appeared to be managed 
with over the counter medication.  I understand he had not sought medical advice for this 
condition and the information  before me doesnt suggest hed taken any time off work 
because of it. 
I said above that there was some inconsistency as to whether Mr B was an employee or 
whether he was self-employed. But looking at the policy document, I dont think the 
circumstances in which a self-employed  person could  make a claim were  markedly  different 
to an employee. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr B wouldve been caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think he had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr B needed  to be totally unable to do any work. I dont think this 
is likely  to be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. So it seems  
unlikely he would have  thought hed been able to make a successful claim if he was still 
working.
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so it provided  flexibility if Mr 
B decided  to repay the loan early  and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken out the policy. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting and provided  benefits  that would help him manage  the 
consequences were  Mr B made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr B would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
Ref: DRN48992508That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Nationwide  should pay Mr B compensation,  as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN48992509my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4899250