K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is complaining  that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings)  cancelled  her 
car insurance policy.
background
Mrs B took out a car insurance policy through Hastings  a broker   with herself as the 
policyholder and her husband as the named  driver.  The policy  automatically  renewed  at 
the end of the policy term. Her husband paid for the initial policy  and the subsequent 
renewals.
Mrs Bs husband contacted Hastings in March 2018 to say that hed been separated from 
Mrs B for over two years and he hadnt  realised  payments were  still being taken from his 
card. Following this, Hastings refunded his renewal payment and the payment taken the 
year before.  It then contacted Mrs B and said there was an outstanding  balance of 
£687.99. And it asked  her to pay this within 14 days or it said it would cancel the policy.
Mrs B didnt  pay this so Hastings cancelled the policy. Mrs B complained to Hastings as 
she didnt think it should have done  this without contacting her first. She also said that her 
husband had used the car during that time. She said the cancellation of the policy  caused  
her significant difficulties as she needed the car as a single parent.
Hastings didnt think it had acted unfairly. But it agreed to waive  the cancellation fee of 
£45 that it charged. It also said that she wouldnt have to disclose this to future insurers.  
Mrs B still thought Hastings shouldnt have refunded the payments and asked this 
service to step in.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2018 upholding this complaint. I said 
Hastings was required to refund payments that shouldnt have been  taken  from the card  
this includes money  returned  under an indemnity scheme. I said that the key issue  for me 
to decide  was whether Hastings should have processed the refund to Mrs Bs husband.
I said that Mrs Bs husband was a named driver  on the insurance policy and had agreed 
to a continuous payment authority for the payment to be taken from his card for the initial 
policy. I thought  that, given  he agreed  to the continuous payment authority, Hastings 
didnt act incorrectly in taking  the payment for the subsequent renewal from his card.  I 
said that, if Mrs Bs husband didnt consent  to the payments  being  taken from his card,  
he could have cancelled  his continuous payment authority.
Ultimately, given I hadnt  seen anything  to show that Hastings shouldnt  have taken 
the renewal payment from Mrs Bs husbands  card, I didnt think it should have 
refunded the payments made to her husband.
I noted Hastings said that Mrs Bs husband would  have  asked  for the money  to be refunded 
under the indemnity scheme  if it didnt process the refund. But I said it could have 
defended this request had he done  so.
Given this, I thought it was unfair to require  Mrs B to pay Hastings the amount it refunded.  
So I thought  it should waive the outstanding  balance on the account. It has already 
confirmed that Mrs B doesnt need  to disclose the cancellation to future insurers,  so I 
didnt think it needs to confirm this again.
Ref: DRN49627722Mrs B responded to accept the provisional decision.  Hastings didnt respond
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached. So I uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited  to waive  the outstanding balance  on Mrs Bs 
account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4962772