K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Skyfire  Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a fair market value 
settlement when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
background
At the end of August  2018 Mr Ms car was stolen and he made  a claim to his insurer,  Skyfire. 
Skyfire offered Mr M an initial market value  for his car of £65,057. Mr M was unhappy with 
the valuation  and so Skyfire asked an engineer to review it. In October 2018 an engineer  
gave a final valuation  of £66,480.  
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. He didnt  feel Skyfire  had been  transparent  about  
how it reached its valuation for his car. Mr M provided valuations from the motor trade guides 
which he said showed Skyfire hadnt  given him a fair settlement. 
Our investigator explained that it isnt for us to decide a valuation. But from what he saw, he 
thought Skyfire had reached its valuation in a fair way  and in line with Mr Ms policy.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said because  his car was so rare, its not possible for him to be able to 
drive down the advertised price. So he says he isnt able to buy a similar car for the valuation 
Skyfire has paid him. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it.
Mr M;s policy with Skyfire  says the most it will pay Mr M in the event of a claim is the market  
value of his car immediately before  the loss. I understand Mr M believes the guide valuations  
dont reflect the market value as he says he isnt able to buy a similar car. There  is no exact  
science to deciding  a valuation. Advertisements range widely and tend to be a starting  price  
to negotiate downward. 
We generally think the fairest approach to take is for an insurer to consider the main motor  
trade guides They are based on extensive national research of likely selling prices rather  
than advertised prices. And they can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, 
condition and specification of a car. So we generally find them more reliable than adverts.
Mr M says he paid £67,300 for his car in January 2018. Hes provided a customer  valuation 
guide from guide C which he says shows a retail  valuation  for his car of £68,000  in August 
2018. However, I can see from the same valuation guide that in January 2018 it gave a retail  
valuation of £71,750. This is £4,450  more  than Mr M says he paid for his car. Our 
investigator explained that this guide  is based  on the average retail advertised  price. And 
this seems to support  our approach - as there  is a difference between the average likely 
selling prices for a car compared  to the average  advertised price. 
Ref: DRN45115072The engineers guide for C shows a retail transacted valuation  of £63,383 and a retail 
advertised valuation  of £67,250. The retail  advertised price is close  to the £68,000 listed n 
Mr Ms valuation.  The retail transacted price is the price Mr M  or anyone  might  expect to 
pay at a dealership  garage for a similar car. So I dont think the engineer has been  
unreasonable by relying on the retail  transacted valuation under guide C.
We think a fair approach  to take is for an insurer to look at the main motor  trade  guides  and 
 if the market value  it pays is within the range of those guides   were of the view that the 
insurer has reached its valuation in a reasonable way. 
Guide P provided  a valuation based  on a franchised dealer average  and an independent 
dealer average.  I know Mr M feels  that the engineer  should have relied on the franchised 
dealer valuation rather than the independent  dealer valuation.
However, the average of the main  motor trade guides for Mr Ms car  assuming Skyfire 
used the higher franchised dealer valuation - came to £65,094. As Ive said,  trade  guide  Cs 
valuation came to £63,383. 
On second review, Skyfires engineer decided a fairer valuation  for Mr Ms car was £66,480.  
This was the valuation  provided by guide  G and was the highest of the main guides.  It was 
therefore more  than the average of the three  guides   even when using the franchised  
dealer valuation. So I cant say Skyfire acted  unreasonably here. 
Trade guide P provided a second hand value for some  of the extras  Mr Ms car had. 
Sometimes optional  extras increase  the second hand value  sometimes  they dont.  Ps 
valuation of £65,094 included an additional  £819.  But this didnt make  a difference  as Ps 
valuation was still lower  than the final valuation  Skyfire paid Mr M.
I understand that Mr M is struggling  to find a replacement car similar to his stolen car as its 
a rare model. But as the market value Skyfire  decided was the highest  of the main motor 
trade guides for Mr Ms car, I think  its acted  in a reasonable way  and in line with the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN45115073Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4511507