K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains HSBC Bank UK Plc failed to remove a fraud marker which had been placed 
against his name.  He  would like to be compensated for the inconvenience this has caused.
Mr P is helped  in this complaint by Miss M  but for ease I will refer to all submissions as if 
made by Mr P.
background
Mr P says he was contacted by a firm (R) in December 2017 who were seeking to enforce a 
debt owed to HSBC.  The debt was in relation  to an account which  had been  opened  in 2015 
in Mr Ps name.   But Mr P said he had never  held such an account with HSBC   and so 
complained.  He also became aware  that a county court judgement  (CCJ) had been entered 
against him.
HSBC acknowledged  Mr P was a victim of identity fraud and in its final response to the 
complaint dated  May 2018, it offered a goodwill  gesture  of £100.  It confirmed it would do the 
following:
-load a protective  marker against Mr Ps name  to say he had been  a victim of identity 
fraud;
-delete any relevant  credit searches  from his credit file;
-close the account;
-send communication  to the relevant parties to stop the collection activity.
Mr P complained to us in June 2018  because he wasnt happy with HSBCs response and 
because the CCJ was still showing on his credit file.
In HSBCs submissions to this service, it said it had emailed the third party  in relation to the 
CCJ in May 2018.   It also said, as soon as HSBC  were made aware  there was a CCJ 
against the genuine customer  HSBC  took the necessary actions to correct.   It confirmed its 
offer of £100 was a suitable offer.
But our investigator didnt think HSBC had acted  fairly.  The  CCJ had still not been removed.  
In the final view she (the investigator) issued to HSBC (dated May 2020) she asked  that the 
CCJ be removed and HSBC pays compensation of £750 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Neither Mr P nor HSBC  accepted that view.  Mr P felt the redress was inadequate and 
HSBC took a rather unusual stance.
In a response dated 27th May 2020,  it appeared to acknowledge the CCJ was still being 
recorded against Mr P  two years on from when it said it had taken the necessary steps to 
correct.  It said this was the case because it was aware the complaint was going to be 
passed to an ombudsman and as of yet, it had not been instructed by this service to 
remove the CCJ.  This stance was inconsistent with its initial submissions to this service.
It also suggested the award  of £750  was unreasonable because  any delay in the complaint 
being resolved  was simply  down to this services  conduct.
Ref: DRN48056842When this service responded to HSBC with further queries, HSBC  stated it had contacted 
the third party  to whom  the debt had been sold onto.  They had in turn made an application 
to the local county court to have the judgement set aside.  The  court, HSBC said, had never  
updated its records.  In  those circumstances, HSBC said it had taken all necessary actions 
required of it and should not be held responsible  for the CCJ still showing on Mr Ps file.  
Rather unhelpfully, it provided  this service with a link to forward onto Mr P advising how he 
could complain about the court service  failing to update its records.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I dont agree with HSBCs stance in this matter for a number  of reasons.
The issue  of the CCJ arose because HSBC  opened  an account for a fraudster in Mr Ps 
name in 2015.   It has accepted it did this.  The CCJ arose as a result  of this account  and 
from HSBC instructing debt collectors and collection activity.  To  say it has acted in 
accordance with what is required of it and cannot be held responsible for the current  state of 
affairs is unreasonable.  Simply sending an email to the third party  is insufficient  and HSBC 
could have done more.
Turning then to what HSBC did do.   I reminded myself of its submissions to this service in 
June 2018 in which it had said it had taken  action to correct the CCJ in May 2018.  
I have seen correspondence from HSBC dated  May 2018 regarding  the complaint.  What  it 
actually says is that action needs to be taken to prevent  debt collection agents  from chasing 
the debt.  No mention there  of any instructions relating to the CCJ.
It was not until an email dated  November 2018 that discussion  appears to be had about 
having the CCJ set aside.   So, when  HSBC says it took the appropriate action in May  the 
evidence seems to suggest  that it did not.
In further submissions from HSBC, I have  been  sent correspondence  dated February  2019  
where Mr P was sent a consent  order  which was being sent to the court  in seeking to have 
the judgement  set aside.  So, this is some nine months after  HSBC said it took the 
appropriate action.
It then appears that, despite the complaint being with this service, the consent order  was not 
chased and the CCJ was left to remain on Mr Ps file.
HSBCs submissions appear to me to be inconsistent with its actions. It is unfair and 
unreasonable for it to respond  to say it is not responsible.
So, I am satisfied HSBC could have done more for Mr P. I then need  to consider the 
appropriate level of redress.
We asked Mr P for evidence  to show he had suffered a financial loss as a result of the CCJ.  
He couldnt provide this.  However, he asked  to be compensated for the inconvenience 
caused by pursuing  this complaint.
In the circumstances, I think the offer of £750  is a fair one. 
Ref: DRN48056843my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
-remove the CCJ from Mr Ps credit file with immediate effect
-pay Mr P £750 for the poor service it has provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4805684