K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G say The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
wrongly declined  their claim for subsidence  under their home insurance policy.
All references to NFU include  their agents.
Background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs G obtained planning  permission to build an extension to their property. 
They got a local building  company to oversee the work and sign off the extension.  The 
building company asked Mr and Mrs G to excavate an area to see the ground composition. 
Mr G says this showed the ground  was made-up but was so hard and consistent  that it 
required steel bars and picks to break it up. 
Based on the excavations  the building company said the ground was solid enough to 
support the extension  with the foundations proposed. The extension was completed  in 2008.
A few years later Mr G said he noticed cracks  in the wall. He monitored these for around 2 
years and says the cracks got larger  but didnt widen.
In 2016, Mr G noticed the cracks were still getting larger and asked a specialist to investigate. 
The specialist carried out a survey of the soil. The survey showed the soil consisted of made  
ground that became loose at depth.  Mr and Mrs G then raised  a claim with NFU.
NFU visited  the property and rejected the claim.  It said the foundations to the extension  had 
failed due to a defective design, which was excluded under the policy. Mr G disagreed and 
provided evidence  that he said showed  the foundations werent  defective  and the problem 
related to underlying ground  conditions.
NFU reviewed the claim again  and maintained its position to reject the claim. It added that 
the design of the foundations  didnt  meet the Building Regulations,  which required that there  
should not be:
(a)Non engineered  fillor  wide variations in the ground conditions in the loaded  area
(b)Weaker or more compressible ground at such a depth  below the foundation as could 
impair the stability of the structure
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with NFUs response  and complained  to our service. They said 
they felt NFU had changed their position on the claim  and not clearly explained why it was 
declining it. Mr G also added if he had been  told the ground needed additional support he 
would have done so at the time. He said it was his home so there was no reason for him to 
cut corners. Mr G also added he felt the underlying ground conditions could not have been 
reasonably foreseen, as the defective  ground  was so deep.
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She 
found that NFU hadnt shown the foundations  werent up to the standard  of the buildings  
regulations and highlighted the extension had been  signed off by the building company. But 
she found the design and construction of the extension  failed to consider the ground 
conditions, and she said it was inevitable subsidence would happen because of this. So she 
found NFU had declined the claim fairly  in the circumstances, as Mr and Mrs Gs policy  
contained an exclusion for the movement  or settlement  of made-up ground.
Ref: DRN42026352Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Neither party provided our service  with anything further to consider, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded NFU has done enough to show the 
foundation design was defective, so I dont think it can rely on this exclusion to decline the 
claim. But I do think the exclusion for the settlement of made-up ground applies,  so I wont  
be upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I appreciate  this will come  as a disappointment  to 
Mr and Mrs G, but I will explain how Ive reached my decision below.
Ive looked at the soil survey  report, which Mr G commissioned in 2016. The survey  shows  
the soil beneath  the extension consists of made  ground becoming very loose with depth. 
NFU has also relied on this report to decline the claim. But as the report was commissioned 
some years after the extension was built, and with the benefit of hindsight, I am more  
interested in what  information was available to Mr G at the time he built the extension.
Ive first considered if Mr G took reasonable steps in the planning and construction  of the 
foundations for the extension.
Mr G said he employed a local building  company  to oversee the work  and sign off the plans 
for the extension. I asked Mr G to provide evidence of the company used, which  hes done. 
Im satisfied that the company  used to oversee the work was approved  and regulated to 
sign-off building work  at the time. Ive also considered Mr Gs testimony  and what he says 
happened at the time the extension was designed and built. Finally,  Ive also considered  if 
any building regulations and or requirements applied at the time the extension  was built. 
Given the size of Mr and Mrs Gs extension,  I think The Building Regulations 2000 applied.  
Mr Gs told us he excavated 1.2 meters of soil as part of the planning for the extension. And 
Ive no reason to doubt what hes told us about using  steel bars and picks  to break up the 
compacted soil. I havent seen anything in the Building Regulations that state how deep  
these excavations needed to be. The schedule of Requirements which  form part of the 
Building Regulations state, The building shall be constructed so that ground movement 
caused by  (a) swelling, shrinking or freezing of the subsoil; or (b) land-slip or subsidence 
(other than subsidence  arising from shrinkage), in so far as the risk can reasonably  be 
foreseen, will not impair the stability of any part of the building. 
Taking into account the overall size of the extension, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to 
excavate 1.2 meters  of soil if the engineer overseeing the project  was satisfied. In other 
words, I dont  think Mr G had cause to excavate  the soil any deeper or reasonably  foresaw a 
risk of subsidence.
Ive also considered whether the nature of the site showed obvious potential  for subsidence. 
Mr Gs said there are seven properties  in the area, and none has showed evidence of 
subsidence. And his property  hadnt subsided previously either. Mr G said that when he 
excavated the soil the engineer told him that the ground had likely been  this way for around  
100 years and was similar to the ground  the property was built on. So considering this I cant 
fairly say the site showed obvious potential for subsidence.
Ref: DRN42026353I asked NFU which regulations it relied  on to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim. NFU said it also 
relied on The Building Regulations 2000. It says Mr G could have reasonably  foreseen  the 
consolidation of the weak ground, and because the stability of the building has been 
impaired it has breached the building  regulations.  NFU says Mr G should have reasonably  
foreseen the weaker and more compressible ground  immediately below the foundation and 
as such the construction was doomed  to fail from the outset. But I dont  agree. I think that 
NFU has relied on a number of investigations which happened after the event (such as the 
soil sampling in 2016) and as such have relied on the benefit of hindsight to show the 
weaker ground conditions  around  2 metres down.
I think that for NFU to decline the claim fairly for defective foundations it ether needed to 
show Mr G knew  there  were underlying  problems  with the soil at the time and didnt take the 
conditions into account, or that the planning  and design process  was inherently defective. 
And from everything Ive seen Im not persuaded it has shown either of these things. So in 
summary, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for NFU to rely on the defective foundation 
exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
But NFU has referred to another exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs G claim which  states damage is 
excluded arising from the movement or settlement of made-up ground.  I accept that this wasnt  
explained well to Mr and Mrs G  it appears NFU relied mainly on the exclusion for defective  
workmanship  but as this has been  mentioned  I need to determine if this exclusion applies.
I have considered Mr Gs comments about the make up of the soil and how compact it was. 
But neither  party disagrees that ultimately the foundation was built on made-up ground. The 
policy exclusion isnt specific as to the composition of the made ground.  As NFU confirmed 
the ground was made-up in the course  of its investigations, and that the ground was the 
cause of the subsidence, I think it has done enough to show  the exclusion applies  here.
This exclusion isnt unusual for insurance  policies of this type. Made-up ground can vary in 
composition and type, so most insurers will have an exclusion in place  for foundations built on 
made-up ground given the potential risks. In this instance I dont think NFU has acted unfairly in 
relying on the exclusion, but I do think it could have explained its decision better  to Mr and Mrs G.
Overall, I think it was fair for NFU to decline  Mr and Mrs Gs claim given the circumstances  
of this case, and so I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202635