K821x#15complaint
Mr S complaint is that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 1999 at the same  time as a 
loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Nationwides comments, but I have still decided to uphold this complaint. 
Nationwide has said it gave Mr S enough information about the policy when it sold the PPI. 
But the information it has described   given in a detailed policy  wording after the sale was 
made - isnt adequate for someone to make  an informed  decision at the point of sale. 
This would have mattered  to Mr S, because of the terms  affecting claims from people in his 
circumstances, in particular the terms relating to self-employment. 
I dont agree with Nationwide that Mr S was unlikely to be affected  by these terms. Even 
though he described himself  as employed,  he was employed firm owned and controlled by 
his family  (and Nationwide  says he eventually became a self-employed  director of the firm).  
The terms of the policy treat you as self-employed if you can control the affairs of a 
company you work for because a relative  hold[s] the majority voting right in that 
company. 
Nationwide says it has previously spoken  to the insurer about such  cases, who said that the 
insurer would have  investigated about  the policyholders employment circumstances. This in 
itself shows that a claim wouldnt have been straightforward.  
I think there was a real possibility Mr S would have faced difficulties if he needed to make  an 
unemployment claim. I think he wouldnt have thought the cost of the policy  worthwhile, if he 
knew he was likely  to face such difficulties making a claim  and I think  there is a real 
possibility he would  in fact have not had a claim paid. 
I think Mr S lost out as a result of the way this PPI was sold. 
fair compensation
Mr S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr S needs to get back  the extra  hes paid. 
Ref: DRN41966662So, Nationwide Building Society should:
Work  out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  Building Society 
can take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes  him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr S compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196666