K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI):
failed on a number  of occasions  to properly repair his central heating  boiler  when he 
called on BGI under  his home emergency insurance policy;  and
caused water leaks and damage to his property and possessions.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 September  2019, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.  BGI responded to say, in summary that:
it didnt agree that the time Mr H was without heating, cooking and hot water was 
excessive. It also pointed out that while an engineer was working on an appliance it 
was often necessary  to turn off the boiler;
it had taken BGI longer than it anticipated  to answer Mr Hs concerns. But at that 
stage the boiler had been repaired, there was heating and hot water,  and Mr Hs 
household insurer  was dealing with his damage  claim, none of which was hindered 
by delay in BGIs investigations; and
it had offered compensation of £150,  which it thought was fair, in recognition  of the 
trouble and upset  Mr H had suffered, and it was in contact with Mr Hs household 
insurer in relation to the damage  to his house.  It thought the additional  £350  I had 
recommended was higher than would be expected, particularly as one of the leaks  
was due to a component failure  which was only discovered by the engineer after it 
had been fitted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I would like to clarify one point in relation to Mr Hs complaint. He said that while  
BGIs engineers were working on his boiler  he had to use a ceramic heater to keep warm, 
and he wanted  to claim for the cost of this heating.
Although I didnt mention this specifically in my provisional decision,  I did consider this point. 
I took the view that any such  cost would be largely offset by the fact Mr H wasnt  using fuel 
while the central heating was switched  off. To the extent there  was any additional cost I think 
it is compensated for within  the general  compensation figure  Ive proposed.
Ive considered carefully BGIs further  comments.  However for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that:
poor workmanship by BGIs engineers was a significant contributing factor  to the time 
Mr and Mrs H were without heating, hot water,  and power, the leaks  they suffered, 
and the distress and inconvenience this caused them;  and
fair compensation  for the distress and inconvenience BGI caused Mr H is £500, 
inclusive of the £150 it has already offered.
Ref: DRN49336992my final decision
My decision  is that I order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H compensation of £500, 
inclusive of the £150 has already offered him, for the distress and inconvenience  it caused 
him.
BGI must pay any compensation  awarded  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr H 
accepts our decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the compensation 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49336993COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 12 SEPTEMBER 2019
complaint
Mr H complains that British  Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI):
failed on a number of occasions  to properly repair  his central heating boiler when he called  on 
BGI under  his home emergency insurance policy; and
caused water leaks and damage to his property and possessions.
background
On 27 February 2018, Mr Hs boiler  failed, leaving him without heating and hot water.  BGIs engineer 
came that day and said the problem was a faulty pressure release valve (PRV). He tried 
unsuccessfully to fit a replacement and said he would  return  the next day. Because of the 
exceptionally cold weather he left a small  heater. But this smelt of dirt and grease  and was unpleasant 
to use. So Mr and Mrs H used another heater which their daughter brought.
On 28 February 2018 the engineer returned with a colleague. They  fitted the replacement  PRV and 
restored heating  and hot water. However  on 2 March 2018 Mrs H found water  running down a 
bedroom wall which had soaked a sofa bed and carpet  and some irreplaceable photographs.
Mr H couldnt get through to BGI but did manage to contact  the engineer  on his mobile phone. The 
engineer contacted BGI, but it was 3 March 2018 before an engineer attended and seems to have got 
the system working again. Until then Mr H was without heating and hot water  again, and had limited 
lighting as the water  leak had fused  half the lighting. Another  engineer came on 7 March  2018 and 
replaced the PRV.
On 18 March  2018,  Mr H found water again pouring  down the same bedroom  wall. He called BGI who 
sent another engineer.  The PRV was again malfunctioning. This time they removed the boiler from 
the wall to deal with the PRV and rebuilt  and refitted the boiler. This stopped the leak and restored  
heating and hot water.
Mr H claimed on his household insurance  for the damage the water leaks caused to his property and 
belongings. He understands that BGI admitted responsibility for the damage to the household insurer. 
He complained to BGI about  its poor service, and for the distress  and inconvenience  he and his wife 
had suffered.
BGI acknowledged that its service had been poor. It said it shouldnt have needed  the number of visits  
that occurred, and Mr and Mrs H had suffered distress and inconvenience.  It said the leak was 
caused by component  failure rather than engineer workmanship. It offered Mr H a compensation 
payment of £150.
Mr H didnt accept this offer.  He said he and his wife were in their seventies and had health issues.  
During a particularly  cold period, they were left without heating and hot water. And during the 
interruption to their gas and electricity  while BGI was attending  to the problems they couldnt  make hot 
food and drinks. 
Although their household insurer had dealt with the physical damage,  they had lost photographs  
which couldnt  be replaced and had suffered the upset and inconvenience of the damage to their 
house and the time and effort it took to put things right.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that she could see from 
BGIs records that its engineers visited Mr Hs home a total of six times before the heating  system was 
finally fixed. During that period there was a water leak twice from the heating system. She thought  
that fair compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  BGI had caused  Mr and Mrs H was £300,  
inclusive of the £150  it had already offered.
Ref: DRN49336994BGI didnt accept the investigators recommendation. It thought the £150 it had offered was fair. Mr H 
didnt accept the recommendation either. He thought £300 didnt sufficiently recognise:
the time they were left without heating, cooking, and hot water during an exceptionally cold 
period;
the time taken up trying to communicate with BGI; and
the disruption they had suffered following the two leaks in drying  the property,  rewiring, 
redecorating, and replacing furnishings and carpets.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not entirely clear  from the limited notes  available on BGIs system why following Mr Hs initial call 
for assistance on 27 February 2018 it took a total of six visits  until the system was finally fully working 
again on 19 March 2019.
Although BGI has said the first leak was caused by a faulty component being fitted rather than poor 
workmanship, I havent seen  any evidence to support this. And Mr H has said from conversations he 
had with some of the engineers that he believes poor workmanship was a cause. 
I note that the system leaked  not once but twice, which wouldnt have happened if a faulty component 
had been fitted and then replaced. So on balance I conclude that poor workmanship by BGIs 
engineers was a significant  contributing factor to the time Mr and Mrs H were  without heating, hot 
water, and power, the leaks they suffered, and the distress and inconvenience this caused them.
Mr H said he wasnt offered hotel accommodation while he was without heating and hot water.  This is 
a benefit sometimes included  in home emergency policies. It wasnt included in Mr Hs policy, but 
given the ages of Mr and Mrs H and the circumstances that occurred I think its something BGI should 
have considered offering. 
Due to the impact it had on Mr H in his circumstances, I think fair compensation  for all of this, inclusive 
of the £150 BGI has already  offered, is £500.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr H or from BGI by 26 September 2019, I intend to uphold  this complaint.
I intend  to order British  Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H compensation  of £500,  inclusive of the 
£150 has already offered him, for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
BGI must pay any compensation  awarded  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts 
our decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation  from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4933699