K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a personal 
loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI in a branch of Lloyds in 2001  at the same time as arranging 
the loan. Although it was a joint loan the policy was set up just to cover Mr B.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when 
considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent given a choice about  having the PPI. Looking at the loan 
agreement, there is a pre-printed x in the yes box to agree to the policy. From what we 
know of BoSs sales process  at the time,  applicants would have completed a loan application  
form first and on that form they had to sign to either request or decline PPI. Whatever the 
applicant said was then reflected on the loan agreement form.
The sale was a long time ago and Mr and Mrs B have said that they cant  remember how the 
policy was sold to them. Ive thought  about  what Mr and Mrs B have said, but on balance I 
think the optional  nature of the policy was probably made clear. It seems to me that they 
decided to buy it, knowing they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember  doing so.
BoS advised them to buy the policy. Therefore  in recommending the policy to Mr and Mrs B 
it needed to ensure that it met their needs.  And from what I know  of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mrs B wasnt  working at the time,  so it was appropriate that the policy only covered Mr B 
(and it was only possible  to take out the policy in the name of the first applicant  anyway). 
The couple  have said that, as they were refinancing, a single premium  policy  which attracted 
interest and didnt provide a pro-rata  refund if cancelled, wasnt suitable. But actually this 
was a regular  premium policy, paid monthly, and there was no interest  applied  to the 
premium.
Mr B would have received  sick pay from his employer of six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than he would have received full pay for. Also, Mr and Mrs B havent  mentioned  any 
other means, such as savings, that they could fall back on.
Mr B says he had life insurance. But that only pays out on death, so the PPI was not 
replicating that cover. Similarly, Mr B says he had a critical  illness policy. Such policies pay 
Ref: DRN46192742out in very specific circumstances,  different  to those that the PPI was covering. So overall I 
think that Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it if Mr B 
was unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information about  the policy as it should  have,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think Mr and Mrs B had an interest in the PPI and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  
that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4619274