K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1994 to
cover a mortgage. Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Nationwide had to make Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and gain their
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  There isnt much information available  from the
time the policy was sold, but this isnt unusual  considering how long ago the sale took place
and that businesses arent required  to keep this kind of information  indefinitely. From the
information that is available I dont have  enough to say that Nationwide didnt make Mr and
Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional, or that they didnt choose  to have it.
Mr and Mrs R have told us that Nationwide recommended the PPI to them. Nationwide  have
told us that it didnt. If Nationwide did recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R it had to check  
that the PPI was right for them.  Mr and Mrs R have told us they would have been entitled to 
generous sick pay and had some  savings they could have relied  on to make  their mortgage 
repayments. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Rs sick pay, and for 
longer than they would  have received full pay. The policy would also have protected their 
savings so they could be used towards other expenses. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time they werent  affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. So even  if Nationwide did recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R I think  the 
recommendation was suitable.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as
it shouldve been.  But I think  Mr and Mrs R chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said - including  what theyve said about
being pressured into taking the policy. But for me to uphold this complaint based  on this I
would need to see persuasive  evidence  that this is likely to be what happened,  which  I
havent seen.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2020.
Ref: DRN46298192Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4629819