K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax hasnt got a copy of the actual application form completed when Mr A applied for the 
credit card. Thats not surprising as the sale took place so long ago. But it has shown  us a 
copy of the type of application form it says was in use at the time. From experience I think    
Mr A wouldve  seen  the same or similar form when  he took out the credit  card.  And I think  its 
likely hed have needed to agree to the PPI being added to the account  either  by ticking  a 
box or signing a statement accepting the PPI.
I also note the PPI was attached to the credit card account for some time and wouldve 
appeared on Mr As monthly statements. So I think its likely Mr A wouldve been aware of 
the PPI. And if he didnt  want  the PPI or hadnt applied  for it Id expect him to have 
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that he did so.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after so many  years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. Mr A has told us hed receive some sick pay if he was unable to 
work, but the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months on top of any sick pay. 
Itd also have paid out if he lost his job.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If it hasnt  done  so already Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN47360012my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4736001