K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mrs C is represented in this complaint by her partner Mr O but for ease of reading Ill just 
refer to her.
Mrs C tells us she acquired a new vehicle in July 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as J. She 
reports that it broke down  suddenly  in early 2019 and was taken to J on or around  18 
January. She said that J had a diagnostic  test done  which showed there was fault with a 
sensor. But she says that J is now claiming it had found water  in the fuel system and red 
diesel markers. So it wouldnt  repair the vehicle. Mrs C says she then reported the 
breakdown to her insurers, a company  Ill refer to as A. She says A had stated its 
engineers had found red diesel markers in a fuel sample but no water. And that this wouldnt 
cause a sudden  breakdown. She said As engineers  had attributed  the breakdown to 
prolonged use of poor quality fuel. Mrs C disputes this and says she last bought  her fuel 
from a local garage and had done around  a further  75-80 miles before the breakdown. Mrs C 
says that shes provided a video which had been sent to her by J. She states this shows the 
engine running  and the mileage has increased and believes this means it cant be a fault 
with the fuel.
Since making this complaint Mrs C has told us that the vehicle has now been  repossessed  
and sold by BMW and that theres  a shortfall of just over £17,000 which  its expecting  her to 
pay. 
BMW said it had not upheld Mrs Cs complaint as the cause of the fault had been identified 
as being due to poor quality fuel. It said that the dealers had been able to produce red diesel 
markers to prove this. It said the dealer wouldnt repair the fault with the sensor until the fuel 
damage had been  repaired and it said Mrs C was responsible  for this.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She said she didnt think  
there was sufficient evidence to show  the fault leading to the breakdown had been caused 
by poor quality fuel. She said the diagnostic report had shown a fault with the rail pressure  
sensor which could  have caused  the same symptoms that Mrs C describes. So she thought 
on balance the breakdown was the result  of a mechanical fault.  She recommended  that the 
agreement be terminated and any instalments paid since January 2019 be refunded. And 
she said BMW  should also pay £350 compensation to Mrs C.
Mrs C accepted the investigators view. BMW didnt reply. As its not been  possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41195782Im sorry  that Mrs C had the disappointment of a new vehicle breaking down. And I can see 
its caused her a lot of upset as its aftermath led to some financial difficulties.
Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, I decide whats the 
most probable explanation to account  for whats  happened.
When the vehicle  suffered  its breakdown  it was taken to J. And Ive seen what  is labelled  as 
an internal invoice which refers to work done on 21 January 2019.  This appears to show 
replacement parts were  fitted including a starter;  fuel injector  and fuel filter. And theres  
reference to the rail pressure sensor fault.  The vehicle was road tested but kept cutting  out. 
The invoice says the rail pressure sensor was removed and jelly was found.  As a result  
bad fuel was suspected and a sample  taken. The analysis for this sample shows  the 
presence of red diesel  markers and water  droplets.
Ive seen an estimate dated  29 January  2019  also provided by J to Mrs C. This details the 
repairs which it says are necessary. The total cost estimate is over £10,600. The estimate 
refers to the presence of water droplets and shows the entire  fuel system needs to be 
replaced including a replacement fuel tank.  The mileage is recorded as 11,175.
Theres also a diagnostic  report  carried out by J, dated 8 February  2019,  which  appears to 
show that despite the work undertaken on 21 January a fault with the rail pressure sensor  is 
still present.
The vehicle insurers, A, said that after it had been made aware of the breakdown  incident it 
had also arranged for a fuel sample  to be taken. This had shown red diesel markers were 
present but no water.  It (A) said its expert  and engineers  had said red diesel markers 
wouldnt have caused the breakdown. And that it had thought  this was probably due to 
prolonged use of poor quality fuel.
There are some differences  in the findings of the two reports regarding the fuel samples  
which were carried out for J and A. Notably,  J stated that water was present in the sample  it 
tested which  wasnt replicated in As test. And an email dated 13 February to Mrs Cs 
solicitors refers to contaminated fuel. This description is later repeated in other emails. But 
I note that BMWs final response letter dated 12 April 2019  - and after it had seen details of 
the analysis done on behalf  of A - refers to J having found the reason for the breakdown as 
being due to the quality of the fuel used.
Although Ive no information about how red diesel markers were present in the fuel samples, 
I dont think this had any impact in terms of the breakdown. Red diesel is essentially the 
same as normal diesel fuel with the red dye simply a means by which tax authorities can 
identify potentially improper use. Ive not been supplied  with any information  which  showed  it 
contributed to this breakdown. And as there was no water in the fuel sample  tested by A it 
also seems unlikely this could be the cause.  Why the results of the tests  were different Im 
unable to say.
Ref: DRN41195783As experts  state that on a balance of probabilities the breakdown was caused  by prolonged 
use of poor quality fuel. And specifically that the red diesel  markers wouldnt cause a sudden 
breakdown. But Im not sure if they were aware of the diagnostic report indicating the vehicle 
had an electrical  fault. Its not referred  to in the letter  A sent to Mrs C. The letter  concluded 
the vehicle had suffered a mechanical breakdown  which  was not covered  under the terms of 
the policy.
In order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied and that 
includes an element  of durability. And faults  found within  the first six months following supply  
are presumed to be present at the point of supply unless the contrary is established.
Having considered the conflicting evidence Ive reached a similar view to that of our 
investigator. This vehicle was new when supplied to Mrs C. It suffered a seemingly sudden 
and catastrophic  breakdown when it had done just over 11,000  miles.  A reasonable person 
wouldnt expect a new vehicle to experience such a problem so soon.
Ive not seen any information to show there  were  any warning signs  that the vehicle might be 
about to malfunction. And if the breakdown was due to the prolonged use of poor quality fuel 
Id have expected there  to be some prior indication in terms of lack of performance.
Ive not seen any information to show Mrs C knowingly  used red diesel  and Im not sure how 
she could be expected to know. Fuel isnt normally visible when the vehicle is being filled. 
And it seems improbable that someone  who is prepared to pay a cash price of over £57,000 
for a vehicle is going to compromise its performance by using poor quality fuel.
The diagnostic report which J carried out on 8 February showed there was still a fault with 
the rail pressure sensor. A fault with a rail pressure sensor is consistent with the sudden 
breakdown. And its clear  from the email  trail that J said it wouldnt carry out any further work 
due to the contaminated fuel issue invalidating the warranty. So no further investigation into 
this sensor was carried out - or if it was - Ive not been provided with the information.
Based on the available information there seem to be two possible causes for the breakdown. 
Poor quality fuel and/or the faulty  rail pressure sensor. Its possible that either  might  be the 
cause or even that both were a contributory  factor. 
It seems  the vehicle has now been repossessed  and sold.  This presumably means that it 
was repaired but Ive no documentary information  to show  this. The video  evidence  Ive seen 
appears to show the engine  running  on 19 February 2019. BMW has been asked to supply 
details of any repairs and/or repossession - but to date hasnt done so. Without evidence of 
what repairs, if any, were carried out Im left with only the diagnostic  and fuel analysis 
reports on which to base  my decision. But I observe that whilst the sensor fault was 
identified as a result of a direct examination of the vehicle, the conclusion drawn by As 
expert was not. So on a balance of probabilities Im entitled to conclude the diagnosis  of the 
sensor fault is likely  to be more reliable.
In those circumstances I think its more probable than not that the vehicle wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Im therefore upholding the complaint. As it seems the 
vehicle has been  repossessed that will mean a recalculation  of the finance agreement.
It would be fair and reasonable for Mrs C to pay for the use shes  had of the vehicle but not 
be liable  for payments after it broke  down.
Ref: DRN41195784my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding the complaint.
In order to settle this complaint Im requiring  BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take 
the following  action:
1.Recalculate the agreement with nothing further for Mrs C to pay from 19 January 
2019; 
2.Refund any payments  made after 19 January 2019 together with simple interest at 
the rate of 8% per year;
3.Pay £350 to Mrs C for distress and inconvenience;
4.Subject to all payments being made on the agreement (after  recalculation)  arrange to 
remove the record of the agreement from Mrs Cs credit file.
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  may deduct arrears (if any) from any payments arising 
out of item 2 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4119578