K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs trustee  in bankruptcy, on Mr Hs behalf,  has complained about the compensation 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has offered following a complaint that it mis-sold 
Mr H payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr H took PPI with two loans he had with RBS. He borrowed £10,000 in September 2000 
(loan ending  3802) and refinanced the first loan with a second loan in January 2003  (loan  
ending 2185) for £15,000. He took PPI with both loans. He paid for the PPI upfront and 
borrowed more to pay for them. These are called single premium policies. 
Mr Hs financial  circumstances  changed  as he lost his job. He was declared bankrupt in 
November 2004.  
Mr H complained to RBS that he had been  mis-sold the PPI. RBS agreed and offered to pay 
compensation of £2,808.40 (for loan ending 3802) and £6,389.55 (for loan ending 2185). 
The offers were net of income tax. The Official Receiver (OR) would need  to accept the 
offers and distribute as necessary as it still had an interest in Mr Hs compensation. 
Mr H has said that if he had not been mis-sold the policies,  he wouldnt have been made 
bankrupt. He has also said if the policies had paid out when  he claimed after he had been 
made redundant, it would  have given him enough  time to find another  job or make further 
arrangements to repay the debts. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. She concluded that RBS had calculated 
the compensation as we would expect  and that she couldnt see that the PPI mis-sales had 
been the sole cause of his bankruptcy.  She  didn't know why RBS that had turned down his 
claim for redundancy  but if hadnt, she didn't think it would have prevented him from going 
bankrupt. Our adjudicator  also clarified  the amount  of the premiums  Mr H had made towards 
the policies. 
Mr H didn't agree. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been  passed to me for 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has already  upheld Mr Hs complaint,  I wont be looking at how the policies were 
sold to him. I will only be considering whether the offer RBS has made  is fair, whether it was 
the policies that caused his bankruptcy and his comment about  the rejected unemployment 
claim. 
Mr H says he could have  used the money  he paid for the PPI premiums  to repay his loan 
and he would have  avoided bankruptcy. Mr H says if hed not paid for the PPI each month  
he would  have been able to make  the loan repayments. 
But I dont agree. No one knows  how Mr H would have used the small extra  amount he may 
had had each  month  if he had not paid for the PPI. For the second  loan which  had 
Ref: DRN46032032refinanced the first loan, the monthly  cost of the PPI was £69.82  out of the total repayment 
monthly cost of £383.33. It is too speculative for me to say that Mr H would have set aside 
the PPI premiums and used them  to pay off the loan,  rather than pay for any other essential 
outgoings at clearly what was a financially  challenging time. 
I think it was an accumulation of things  that led to Mr H entering  into bankruptcy. But he had 
agreed to make the monthly repayment  to RBS, and he was no longer in the position to 
make those repayments. Clearly he had other  outgoings as well so I cant know how much 
longer he would have been  able to get by before entering bankruptcy  if he were  not paying  
the PPI. 
The simple  interest payment included with RBSs offer is intended to compensate  Mr H for 
the loss of the use of the money he paid for the PPI. And the rate used  in line with the 
regulators guidance  reflects the fact that there  are costs and losses  involved.  
The interest added to the compensation  considerably increased  the amount offered - it isnt 
a reflection of how much  Mr H had actually paid for the PPI. When  Mr H entered into 
bankruptcy the amount  recorded was £44,913.79. And at that time the total he had paid 
towards his policies since the first loan was taken  was £3,450.32 (which included the interest 
for the borrowing for the PPI), compared  to the £9,197.95 offered in compensation. So I 
cannot agree that premiums he was paying  for the PPI would have made  a significant 
change to his financial circumstances and allowed him to make the loan repayments, 
thereby avoiding bankruptcy. 
Mr H has said that if the policy had paid out his claim  it would have allowed him sufficient  
time to get his finances in order and carry on making the loan repayments. I see that Mr H 
did try to make two claims  on his policy  in 2004,  but like the adjudicator, I dont  know why the 
claims were  rejected. Mr H can contact the insurer if he wants  to take this further. But Mr Hs 
comments havent made me reconsider my decision as it has been  agreed the PPI was mis-
sold in the first instance. So its as though he never had the PPI.
I fully understand  that Mr H will be disappointed with my decision.  He has clearly been going  
through a difficult  time. Id like to assure him Ive carefully thought about what he has told us. 
But based  on the information  and evidence I have, I cant conclude that if Mr H hadnt been 
paying for the PPI he wouldnt have entered into bankruptcy.  
Ref: DRN46032033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think the offer of compensation made  by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to settle the complaint about the mis-sold PPI policy with 
Mr Hs loans is fair. And I dont agree the PPI was the sole cause of Mr H becoming 
bankrupt. So The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc doesnt need to do anything  further.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
The Insolvency Service to accept or reject  my decision before 8 March  2019. And it can 
accept the offer of compensation if it wishes to do so.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4603203