K822xComplaint
Mr V complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc delayed rejection of a car and refused  to 
compensate him fairly.
Background 
In March 2018 Mr V acquired a car funded with a hire purchase  agreement arranged by a 
broker I will call CF. In April he contacted CF to say he had medical condition which meant 
he needed an automatic car. The dealer agreed to a swap as did the other  parties and a 
suitable car was found. However, Mr V had done some 7,000 miles in the original car and he 
was asked to pay mileage charges. He refused and in due course  this was covered by CF.
Mr V had a number of problems with the replacement car which  have been  detailed in the 
view issued by our investigator and I wont repeat them here. The dealer supplied  a missing 
satnav and offered  to address other issues Mr V had raised, but it says he refused  to leave 
the car with it. An independent report was commissioned by CF which  stated:
This would  lead us to conclusion that the vehicle was road legal and fit for purpose  at the 
point of sale the current issue developing shortly after the point of sale, with the most likely 
cause being a breach of the cylinder  head  gasket which could have occurred at any time 
throughout the 4000 miles of ownership.
Despite the independent  inspectors findings  CF agreed to accept rejection of the car and 
this was completed in September 2018. Mr V complained  that he had to pay for maintenance 
of the car while awaiting rejection and the delay had caused him distress and inconvenience. 
He also said he had to pay a higher rate of interest for a new loan to purchase a 
replacement car.
 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who suggested Secure Trust pay 
Mr V £100  compensation. She said she appreciated  his new loan may have carried  a higher  
rate of interest due in part to the existing loan. She also noted that repairs  were being  
discussed before rejection was accepted and she didnt consider the delays  were  
unreasonable.
Mr V didnt agree and said he had been paying over £100 to keep the car going, but was 
unable to provide  evidence  of this outlay. He also explained he needed to use the car to get 
to work. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr Vs point of view I do not consider that any further  compensation is 
merited. I will explain why.
Having reviewed all the evidence I believe CF and Secure Trust endeavoured to assist Mr V 
with the swap  of the original car. The dealer agreed  to the swap  when it wasnt  obliged to do 
so and this was done with the support of CF and Secure Trust at no extra cost to Mr V. As 
such I consider the swap was handled in a reasonable manner. 
Ref: DRN43721052Mr V had issues with the replacement car and it seems the relationship  with the garage and, 
to a certain extent, with Secure Trust broke  down. I gather the police were called by the 
garage at one point.  It would seem the car could have been  repaired, but Mr V refused to 
allow that to happen. At that point  it was open to CF and Secure Trust to leave the car with 
Mr V and let him resolve matters, but an independent report was commissioned and paid for. 
This showed that there were  no grounds for rejection. Again it was open to the business to 
refuse rejection  and point out to Mr V that he was responsible for any repairs  which  were  
needed. However, as a gesture of goodwill it agreed to allow Mr V to reject the car. This 
process may have  taken  some time, but I dont consider there was an unreasonable delay.
While Mr V may have had to pay additional  costs for coolant while the matter was resolved I 
dont consider the outcome as unreasonable. He had use of the car while  the matter was 
being settled and his decision to seek alternative  finance for a new car cannot be held to be 
the responsibility of the business.  The investigator suggested Secure Trust pay Mr V £100 
and it has agreed.  While I think this is generous, in the circumstances  I have concluded that I 
need not reduce this sum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay 
Mr V £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience. Under  the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject  my decision 
before 2 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372105