K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that a car she has been  financing through  an agreement with Black Horse 
Limited (Black Horse) has not been  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Miss P took receipt of a used car in May 2018. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  At the point of supply the car was about eight years 
old and had already completed  71,000 miles.
Miss P had problems with the car. She complained to Black Horse and provided  comments 
from a main dealership  on several  issues. Black Horse therefore commissioned an 
independent inspection in July 2018. The inspector noted that Miss P had only covered 790 
miles in the car at that point. He reviewed each area Miss P had concerns with and it was his 
opinion that the following faults  were most likely  to have  been present when Miss P took 
receipt of the car:
the Exhaust  Gas Recirculation (EGR)  valve needed  replacing;
there was a rattle from the off side front area of the car that diminished when the 
brakes were pressed. Further investigation  was required to decide  what the fault was 
but he suspected a problem with the front brakes;  
Miss Ps concerns that the front brake  discs  were  lipped could  not be investigated  
during the inspection  visit. The investigator suggested this could be considered  when 
the rattling was investigated.
He noted that repairs  to a speaker; window noise; intake motor  and wiper blades had all 
been completed previously and he was satisfied the repairs had been successful. He also 
considered some paintwork damage  that Miss P complained of and a dent to the rear of the 
vehicle. But he thought all of this damage  would have been  clearly visible when the car was 
initially inspected by Miss P prior to the agreement being struck. So he didnt think these 
issues were Black Horses responsibility.
Black Horse  therefore upheld part of Miss Ps complaint and arrangements  were made for 
the supplying  dealership  to attend  to these problems.  Black Horse paid Miss P £190.27 in 
respect of the days she had been without her vehicle and made a payment of £200  to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
In October  2018 Miss P made a further complaint to Black Horse. A further independent 
inspection was arranged.  The inspector was again  asked to look at several  areas of concern 
Miss P had with the car. These included:
a noisy roof;
a leak;
a noise coming from the centre  console;
a fan belt problem;
problems with the pollen and air filters;
a rear brake issue;
a problem with the window strip;
a problem with the under tray.
Ref: DRN49697242The inspector wasnt able to find any fault with the vehicle. He heard no abnormal noises 
and found no evidence of water ingress.
Black Horse  considered the inspectors comments. They  didnt uphold  Miss Ps complaint 
and provided their views  on each of the faults Miss P had reported to them. They  said the 
inspector hadnt  found fault with the car and some of the faults were examples of what would 
be considered  normal  wear and tear i.e. the fan belt and filter changes.  
But Miss P was dissatisfied with their response so she referred her complaint to this service 
and our investigator provided  his opinion. He thought  there was evidence in the first 
inspection, of problems  with the car that were present at the point of supply, when he said 
Black Horse  were responsible for the cars quality. So he thought,  if the business hadnt  
already done so, they should  carry out these repairs or refund the cost of any repairs  Miss P 
could evidence. But he noted the second  inspector could  not evidence  the faults Miss P had 
subsequently complained  of so he didnt think Black Horse needed to take any action on 
those issues. 
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators  findings.  She said there  was video evidence of the 
water leak in the boot and this hadnt  been  repaired and she also complained  that the car 
wasnt serviced prior to supply as it should  have  been. She said this had led to the 
premature replacement of filters and brake fluid and that the fan belt should not have failed 
so soon either. She therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Miss P so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Black Horse,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss P. The car 
here was around  eight  years old and had travelled 71,000 miles.
Ref: DRN49697243I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this right.  
Im persuaded by the first independent inspectors comments that the faults he identified in 
the first inspection were  present when the car was supplied to Miss P. However, whilst Im 
persuaded that the issues were present at that point I am not persuaded that Black Horse  
were responsible for rectifying all the faults.  
I dont think it would  be fair to hold them  responsible for paintwork issues that would have 
been obvious when the car was inspected by Miss P prior to her agreeing to lease it. The 
inspector has suggested  all the paintwork issues, and the dent, would have been obvious.  
Miss P accepted  the car in the condition it was presented to her so I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask Black Horse to pay for repairs to these areas of damage. 
Ive reviewed all of the faults the inspector considered in this first report  and I think  the 
issues Ive bullet pointed  in the background information, above, are the ones that Black  
Horse needed  to resolve for Miss P. So Id agree with our investigator that these need to be 
put right and, if they have been and Miss P can provide receipts, those expenses should  be 
refunded by Black Horse.
Black Horses responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
The second  inspector was asked  to look at several issues. He could not find evidence  to 
support any of them and he explained  that, in his expert view, there was no fault with the 
vehicle, no abnormal noises and no evidence  of water ingress. I think its difficult  to argue 
with this position and even if there was evidence of a fault there  would have to be evidence  
the fault was present at the point of supply  and there  isnt. 
Ive noted the inspectors background and its clear  hes an expert  in these matters. The 
inspection was conducted in heavy rain and whilst I understand that leaks can be difficult to 
replicate, I would have  expected those weather conditions to highlight  a fault if one was 
present. 
I understand that Miss P disputes whether a service  took place before the car was supplied 
to her. She doesnt think  the filter changes  or brake fluid changes  should have been required 
so early. I think  these are all consumable items  a reasonable  person would expect to fund 
through wear  and tear. I can see the service did take place  at 70,000  miles just before 
Miss P took receipt of the car. I think its most  likely the independent inspector would have 
raised concerns  had there been  clear signs this service hadnt been  performed correctly. But 
he didnt, and Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that was the case.
Overall, Im not persuaded that there  is sufficient  evidence  of any new fault with the car that 
can be considered  to have been developing at the point of supply. 
Im therefore  telling Black Horse to rectify any issue they agreed to put right after the initial  
inspection or to refund the cost of repairs, if Miss P arranged them herself and can provide 
receipts. But I dont think  theres  sufficient  evidence to support Miss Ps more recent 
complaint.
Ref: DRN49697244I note that Black Horse  provided some compensation for distress and inconvenience  when  
they considered  Miss Ps first complaint. I think that was reasonable and I note they also 
took into account the time Miss P had been  without her vehicle and compensated her for that 
as well. So Im not asking them to provide any further compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Black  Horse Limited 
to repair  (or refund the repair  costs on provisions of receipts) any fault that is still present 
relating to the following  issues that were identified  in the first inspection:
the Exhaust  Gas Recirculation (EGR)  valve replacement;
the investigation of the rattle from the off side front area relating to the front brakes;
the resolution of the rattle from the off side front area relating  to the front brakes; 
any investigation or repair costs that were incurred as a result of an investigation into 
lipped brake discs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4969724