K821x#15complaint
Miss T says T & C Cars limited mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy in 
2005.
background
Miss T took out a loan of £8,074.00 in 2005  to purchase a car. 
At the same time she was sold a PPI policy. The PPI policy was funded with a single 
premium of £2,049.88  which was added  to the borrowing  meaning  Miss T borrowed a total of 
£10,123.88. The PPI covered Miss Ts loan repayments if she couldnt work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It would also have cleared the outstanding debt if         
Miss T had died. The loan was due to be repaid over 60 months.
In 2019 Miss T complained to T&C Cars  about  the sale of the PPI. Unhappy  with its 
response she asked  this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service recommended that the complaint should be upheld. 
T&C Cars disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been  passed to me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so I am upholding  Miss Ts complaint, Ill explain why.
T&C Cars advised Miss T to buy the policy, so it had a duty to ensure the policy  was right for 
her.
The policy sold to Miss T contained  an exclusion meaning Miss T wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for time off work due to a medical condition that had already been diagnosed.
I think this would have  made a difference to Miss T as shes told us she had a pre-existing 
medical condition  in 2005. Miss T has told us she was diagnosed with this condition in 
childhood. Miss T had regular check-ups  with her doctor and took medication  to control the 
condition. Shes said the condition  caused her to miss time at university and also to take 
time off work.
I think Miss T would think her medical  condition to be one of the more likely reasons she 
may have  needed  to take time off work and make a claim in the future.
The policy sold to Miss T was quite expensive, it represented 25% of her total borrowing and 
would have attracted  interest over the term of the loan.  Taking  everything  into account I dont 
think Miss T wouldve bought such an expensive policy if T&C Cars had made her aware it 
wasnt suitable for her because of her medical condition.
Ref: DRN40415082T&C Cars has shown us a copy of a Demands and Needs form which it says was in use at 
the time of the sale. It says this shows  that information on the exclusion for pre-existing 
medical conditions  would  have been given to Miss T.
But this wasnt an information-only sale where information was given to Miss T for her to 
decide if the policy was right for her. T&C Cars recommended the policy to Miss T, so she 
was entitled to rely on its professional advice  to take out the policy.  And I dont think  she 
would have bought the policy  if it had been pointed  out that it wasnt  suitable for her.
putting things right
T&C Cars should put Miss T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So T&C Cars should:
Pay Miss T the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.      
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, T&C Cars can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires T&C Cars to take off tax from this interest. T&C Cars 
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and direct T & C Cars  Limited  to pay Miss T 
compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4041508