K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc charged  him £950 for investment advice without his 
permission. He didnt  sign a Terms of Business  agreement until after it became a fait 
accompli three meetings later. He is also unhappy  that it didnt advise him to invest  more  of 
his capital, at least  in an interest-bearing account.
background
In 2013 Mr T was recommended to switch an existing investment and put roughly £11,000 in 
an ISA. This left just over £110,000  uninvested. The advisor recorded  that Mr T was 
planning to use most  of this money  to purchase a property and therefore did not recommend 
investing it. He also said that if Mr T did not purchase a property he should seek a further 
review concerning this money.
An investigator at this service did not believe this advice was unreasonable.
He also didnt believe Mr Ts complaint about  the advice fee should be upheld. He said there 
wasnt enough evidence  to say whether Mr T was aware of the fee before signing the 
agreement, given the lack of independent  evidence about this, but felt he was subsequently 
aware of this and couldve  cancelled the investment if he was not happy about  this.
Mr T disagreed, and said:
The agreement was signed after work  started on the financial planning report as the 
dates on the paperwork demonstrate
The advisor told him that he should  have got him to sign the agreement at the first 
meeting but he forgot. So he did not follow correct procedure
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am satisfied  that the recommendations letter clearly sets out that, according to the 
advisor, Mr T was planning  to buy a property costing roughly £150,000  and that it therefore 
made sense  to keep  the vast majority of existing cash-based assets in his saver  account. It 
also clearly spelt out that if he changed his mind he should ask for new advice.
So if the advisor was wrong and Mr T did not have any plans to use this money to buy 
property (or his plans  were so vague that he was happy to lock this money away  in a 
medium term risk-based product) he should have challenged the advisors  report  and 
sought advice  about how to invest the £100,000 plus sitting in his savers  account. I cannot 
reasonably hold HSBC responsible for his failure to ask for new advice when he didnt buy a 
property for a number  of years.
Secondly, I recognise  that there is not sufficient  evidence to be certain whether the advisors  
record that Mr T  signed the agreement on 27 August was correct, let alone  whether the fee 
was made  clear at that point. But even if the size of the fee was not spelt out till late 
September when  Mr T was presented with the advisors recommendations, I do not believe 
this complaint should be upheld. This is because  I am satisfied that Mr T was in a position to 
decide whether  to go ahead with the advisors  recommendations  and accept the fee in 
Ref: DRN41704882question. He could have  declined to pay the advice  fee and not gone ahead  with the 
proposed actions if, as hes said, he didnt want to pay such  a sum or believed the advice 
was free.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4170488