K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs H say Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage  with Barclays  in 2002. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The mortgage was in joint names but the PPI covered Mr H only. The policy  
covered him against being unable  to work  due to accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. The monthly cost of the PPI policy was £37.50.  In event of a claim the policy 
couldve paid a monthly benefit  of £667.73  for up to 12 months per claim. 
In 2003 Mr H made a successful claim on the policy and the policy  paid out £1,135.18.
In 2009 Mr H made another successful claim and the policy  paid out £2,114.48.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the policy was optional.
The mortgage was applied for during a meeting.  Ive seen a copy of the mortgage 
application form from 2002. The mortgage application includes a section for PPI. I can see 
that this section included the option  to decline PPI but this has been left blank. Instead  a box 
has been ticked to apply for the PPI. The application form has been completed and signed 
by Mr and Mrs H and a direct debit instruction has also been completed. I also note the PPI 
remained in force for many years. If the PPI was something Mr and Mrs H hadnt wanted Id 
expect them to have  questioned it at an early stage but Ive not seen any evidence  that they 
did so.
The paperwork Ive seen  from the time indicates that Mr and Mrs H were made aware of the 
PPI and chose  to apply for it.
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely Mr and Mrs H were made aware  the 
PPI was optional  and they chose  to take it out. Although after so many years  I can 
understand why they might not recall this.
Part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that they cant recall receiving advice about the policy. 
Barclays, on the other hand,  has said its representative  should have given them  advice and 
recommended the policy.
Ref: DRN42865182There are essentially two ways Barclays could have sold the policy.  With advice, or by 
providing information only. In the case of an advised sale Barclays had to ensure the policy  
was right for the consumer as well as providing  clear information. If it didnt provide advice it 
didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable.
I cant know exactly what was said during the meeting. But because  Barclays  has told us it 
should have advised Mr and Mrs H it means  that it had a duty to ensure the policy it 
recommended was right for Mr and Mrs H. So when looking at this complaint Ive held 
Barclays to that higher  standard. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances in 2002 I think  the policy  was right 
for them. I say this because:
The policy was set up to cover Mr H only. And from the mortgage application I can 
see Mr H was by far the higher earner so the policy  was set up appropriately  in this 
regard.
Mr H was eligible for the cover. He was resident in the UK and was employed. So 
hed have been able to make a claim on the policy if he needed to.
The policy contained some exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.  But Mr H was not 
caught by any of these. For example he didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt have been covered. And he was not in unusual employment  situation which  
might have  made it difficult for him to make a claim. 
Mr Hs employers wouldve paid him sick pay if hed become too unwell to work. Mr H 
told us he was entitled to up to six months full pay followed by six months half pay. 
But this particular policy  wouldve  paid a monthly  benefit  in addition to any sick pay, 
and for up to 12 months. This is longer than Mr Hs full sick pay would likely last. So 
I still think Mr H wouldve  found  the benefit  useful  if he became too unwell to work, 
particularly if he was unwell for a prolonged period. 
Mr H had been with his employer for two and a half years.  So if he had been  made  
redundant it is unlikely hed receive  a significant redundancy package. But the PPI 
policy could have  paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months.
Mr and Mrs H have said they could  rely on close family to help if things went  wrong. 
While I have no doubt family would want to help out, this kind of assistance cant be 
guaranteed.
For these reasons I think the PPI policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H.
I cant know after all these years exactly what information Mr and Mrs H were  told or given at 
the time.  And its possible  the information  Barclays gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But from what Ive seen they chose to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
So I think its likely Barclays  made  Mr and Mrs H aware the policy was optional and they 
chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Barclays recommended  was 
Ref: DRN42865183right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it. It follows that I dont think  the PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs H also made  complaints about  other  PPI policies Barclays sold them.  I am 
aware at least two of these complaints  were  upheld by Barclays  and Mr and Mrs H received 
compensation. Mr and Mrs H have questioned why Barclays upheld other complaints but not 
this one. 
There are many different  types of PPI policy. Some to cover credit  cards,  others to cover  
personal loans  or, as in this case, a mortgage. They have different terms and conditions  and 
could be funded in different ways. For instance some PPI policies are funded with a single 
premium paid up front while others have monthly premiums. And PPI polices  were  sold in 
different ways. They were  sold by post, over the internet, by telephone  and in face-to-face 
meetings. It follows that just because one PPI was mis-sold it doesnt necessarily mean that 
all PPI policies sold to the same consumer were  mis-sold. Ultimately I dont know  why 
Barclays made the decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs other complaints, but Ive looked at 
this particular sale and Ive not found a reason to make me think  that it was mis-sold.
I note Mr and Mrs H are unhappy at the way Barclays handled their complaint. In particular 
Mr and Mrs H say Barclays did not supply  information they requested and were slow to deal 
with their correspondence. Theyve  requested  that this service  considers how Barclays dealt 
with their complaint.  This service cannot  consider stand-alone complaints about how a 
business handled a complaint. Thats because complaint handling  itself is not a regulated  
activity. If I had upheld  this complaint I could have made an additional award for the trouble  
and upset caused by the mis-sale and the resulting complaint. But in this case  Im not 
upholding the mis-sale  complaint. If Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy  with how Barclays  
handled their requests  for information they can contact the Information  Commissioners 
Office.
That being  said,  I understand  Barclays have  made  an offer to Mr and Mrs H of £200  for the 
service they received. If Mr and Mrs H wish to accept this they should contact Barclays 
directly.
I realise Mr and Mrs H will likely  be disappointed  with my decision but I hope my explanation 
is useful to them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42865184
Ref: DRN4286518