K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  their mortgage. For ease, Ill refer to the business  as 
Bank of Scotland in the rest of this decision.
background
In 1994, Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage  through Bank of Scotland.  At the same  time PPI 
was added to their mortgage  account. The policy covered Mr F only.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F
didnt agree with the adjudicator so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, based on whats available.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Bank of Scotland  had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs F that they had a choice about taking 
out PPI. The bank had to get their consent to PPI being added. 
Bank of Scotland no longer has copies of Mr and Mrs Fs paperwork from the time of sale.  
Banks often only keep records for six years, and this mortgage  and PPI was taken out long 
before that. Ive seen copies of Bank of Scotlands  system records and these show  the PPI. 
And based on what we have  learnt  from dealing with other  Bank of Scotland cases, I think  
probably Mr and Mrs F wouldve  been  told PPI was optional and asked if they wanted it 
before it was added. So, I think,  on balance, PPI was probably added  because Mr and Mrs F 
said they wanted it.
Bank of Scotland  has worked on the basis that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. I 
have too, as that means Bank of Scotland also had to check  PPI was right for them, as well 
as giving them enough clear information about  the PPI for them  to decide themselves 
whether they wanted it. 
Although only Mr F was covered under the policy, Ive taken into account Mrs Fs 
circumstances too when looking to see if the policy appeared  suitable for them. Based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances, I cant see that the policy  wasnt  right for them. Ill 
explain why.
Mr F was eligible  to take out the policy. I cant see that it was inappropriate for the 
cover to be taken out in his name  only.
Ref: DRN43764642Mr F said he wouldve got 12 months  worth of sick pay at full pay, followed by a 
period at half pay. He said they had around  £3,000 in savings and Mrs F couldve 
helped with their repayments.  The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim.  It wouldve paid out on top of Mr Fs work benefits and allowed 
them to keep hold of their savings. Mrs Fs income  couldve been  used to meet their 
other household  expenses, knowing that their home  was protected.  So, I still think  the 
PPI couldve provided them  with valuable protection, to protect  their home if Mr F 
wasnt working. 
I cant see that Mr F was affected by any of the main policy limitations  or exclusions. 
So, as it seems he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy  offered, I cant see 
theyve lost out because of not being given  clearer information about  these things.
The policy appeared affordable at around £20 per month. They didnt have  to pay 
interest on the monthly PPI premium and it couldve  been  cancelled at any time if 
they no longer  wanted the policy without them losing out. 
Though its possible that Bank of Scotland couldve given Mr and Mrs F clear  information 
about the PPI, I dont think this would have put them off deciding to buy it. So, I dont think 
they have lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland couldve done better.
In all the circumstances, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4376464