K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr H says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Capital One hasnt been able to send us a recording of the call in which Mr H took out the 
PPI. But it has sent us a copy  of the script it says its advisor wouldve followed during the 
call. The script instructs  the advisor to gain the customers explicit consent for the PPI by 
asking questions like would you like me to add the cover? or are you happy for me to add 
the cover?
Based on what I understand about  Capital  Ones sales practices at the time, I think  its likely 
that the call with Mr H broadly followed  this script.  And so I think  its likely that Capital One 
made it clear  to Mr H that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr H chose to take it, 
knowing he didnt have  to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than Mr H has told us he wouldve been  entitled to sick pay. And 
it wouldve  meant he didnt need  to rely on any savings or other means  he had to make  his 
repayments if he wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put Mr H off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN44162962My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4416296