K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK plc has allowed  unauthorised activity  on his account 
and wont restore the account to the position  it was in before it started. He says he wasnt  
responsible for any activity on his account for two months from the middle of April 2017. 
background
In the period in question there were a number of cash machine withdrawals and card 
payments made using  Mr Ms bank card. There were also transfers made  by telephone 
banking to two individuals,  as well as payments into the account which Mr M says he didnt 
recognise. 
Mr M says he didnt  know the individuals to whom  the telephone  banking  payments were 
made. 
Mr M ordered a new card at the end of May 2017,  and he says he received the replacement. 
The bank also received a number of cash machine  disputes during the relevant period;  Mr M 
denies disputing  any transactions  at the time,  since he says he wasnt  aware of the activity  
on his account.  
Barclays thought  that it was more likely  than not that Mr M had been  involved. It was 
satisfied the genuine cards and PIN had been used for most of the withdrawals. It was 
satisfied too that Mr M had requested  the telephone transfers, ordered new cards and 
disputed some of the cash  machine withdrawals. 
Mr M referred the matter  to this service and one of our adjudicators  considered it. She was 
however satisfied that the transactions that Mr M was disputing  were carried out with Mr Ms 
authority. The bank was therefore justified in holding Mr M liable for them. 
Mr M didnt  agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons. 
The adjudicator set out the background in a little more detail than I have done here. But the 
key issue for me to consider here is whether Mr M made the transactions or authorised 
someone else to do so or whether,  as he says, he wasnt involved in and knew nothing  
about the activity  on his account for some two months. 
Most of the withdrawals  from the account were made using Mr Ms card and its 
replacements. Mr M hasnt explained  how someone  else came to have his card or how they 
were able to order and collect replacements. Indeed, he has said that on at least  one 
occasion he both ordered and received a card.
Mr M hasnt  explained  either  how a third party could have known his PIN. He says he didnt 
disclose it to anyone  and didnt keep a written record  of it either.   
When Mr M was unable  to use that card (it had been  blocked because of suspicious activity) 
he contacted the bank.  In the course  of that call he was able not only to answer security 
Ref: DRN49597982questions about  himself but also confirmed  a transfer of funds a few days  earlier.  He now 
disputes having made that transfer.  
As the adjudicator noted, Mr M denies  knowledge  not only of payments from his account  but 
also payments to it  from at least one of the individuals  to whom payments were  made.  
That doesnt  indicate to me that a fraudster was simply trying to take money from Mr M, 
having gained  access to his account. It suggests  instead a much closer  involvement on his 
part.    
It may be of course that Mr M didnt carry out all the transactions himself. Its possible too 
that he hasnt  benefited from the activity on his account. I believe though that his knowledge 
of and involvement in those transactions mean  that it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays to 
take any further action here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 22 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4959798