K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK plc has refused to return a transfer of £3,000 she made  
to her childs junior ISA.
background
Mrs D says she made the transfer  by mistake and she intended the money to go to her 
account. She says she wasnt  well when the transfer was made and that Santander  is 
refusing to return the money. Mrs D says she is in financial difficulties as a result of whats 
happened.
Santander says the account terms and conditions, which are set in line with Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs  (HMRC) rules, dont allow a withdrawal unless there are exceptional 
circumstances such as  a child being  terminally ill. It says it cant allow  a withdrawal  here 
and that Mrs D should take the matter up with HMRC.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Santander  had dealt with it 
fairly and hadnt  made a mistake. He thought we couldnt ask Santander to ignore HMRC 
rules and that Mrs D had made the transfer,  which included  a second confirmation screen. 
The adjudicator asked Santander to consider  Mrs Ds medical position but it said it was 
bound by HMRC rules.
Mrs D doesnt accept  that view and says she is likely to be evicted due to her financial 
problems and needs the money returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mrs D will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im very sorry to see that Mrs D is in financial problems  and may lose her home. But Im 
satisfied that Santander  hasnt made a mistake  here or acted  unfairly. And I think Mrs D 
made the transfer which included a second online screen asking  her to confirm the transfer. 
Im also satisfied that the account terms and conditions, which I think Mrs D wouldve agreed 
to when the account was opened  , only allow withdrawals in exceptional  circumstances. I 
dont think there are such circumstances here.
As Mrs D knows, the rules about  tax free savings such as an ISA are governed  by HMRC 
and not Santander. I cant fairly ask Santander to ignore those rules. I appreciate  Mrs D says 
she was unwell when  she made the transfer.  But I dont think  her position is one that can be 
considered as exceptional within the HMRC rules.  
Overall Im satisfied Santander hasnt  made  a mistake and so I cant fairly order it to return 
the £3,000 as Mrs D would  like.
Ref: DRN40661602my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4066160