K820x#14complaint
G, a private  limited company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK plc failed to protect them  
from falling  victim to a scam which resulted in the theft of two payments totalling about 
£15,000. 
Barclays denies liability on the basis that G authorised  both payments, which did not appear 
unusual or suspicious, so would not have alerted it to any wrongdoing.  
my findings
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, including our investigators initial 
assessment and Gs response, I have decided  that the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is as follows: 
1.The relevant  law and regulationsplus good industry practice indicate  that a bank 
does have a duty of care to protect  its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so 
far as reasonably  possible. A bank might be negligent and therefore liable for reasonably 
foreseeable losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information  which  
ought reasonably  to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime by or 
against its customer.i 
2.However, the Payment Services Regulations  2017 (the Regulations),  in conjunction with 
the standard terms and conditions of accounts, indicate that a bank should  execute an 
authorised payment  instruction without  undue delay  and there is a presumption that 
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even if his authorisation was 
obtained by third-party fraud. 
3.It is fair and reasonable to rebut such a presumption if there is clear evidence  that a bank 
breached its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on information  that would or 
should have triggered  fraud alerts and systems required  for the proper conduct  of 
business.  
4.It is common ground that G was duped  into authorising two payments in settlement of 
supplier invoices: £8,400 to M on 31 October  2018; and £6,656.40  to S on 7 November 
2018 (i.e. a total of £15,056.40).  The scammers masqueraded as Gs legitimate 
supplierswhom  G was expecting to payand emailed  new invoices with their bank  
details. So, legitimate invoice settlements were unwittingly authorised  by G and diverted 
to the scammers accounts  with Lloyds Bank  and the Royal  Bank of Scotland.  
5.By the time G realised what had happened  and alerted Barclays,  most of the funds had 
been removed  from the payee banks (albeit Lloyds  managed  to recover  and return 
£1,340.30 to G). 
6.This was a sophisticated  scam  and it is understandable why G fell for it. Nevertheless, I 
am satisfied these were  authorised  payments for the purposes of the Regulations, which 
means there is a rebuttable presumption that G are liable for them.
7.On the individual facts and evidence  in this case,  there  is nothing  persuasive to indicate  
that the two payments were  unusual or uncharacteristic  for G and/or their account such  
that Barclays alert systems  ought reasonably to have been triggered and detected the 
scam. On the contrary, there had been legitimate payments to suppliers in the months 
prior to the scam for comparable or significantly  higher  sums  which  G had obviously not 
queried. Accordingly, Barclays had no information to give reasonable grounds for 
suspecting fraud  or financial  crime when  it received  authorisation for these two payments 
from G via their usual security credentials. 
8.Like the investigator before me, I cannot accept Gs argument that Barclays  ought  
reasonably to have  been triggered  by the mismatch between the legitimate payee names 
Ref: DRN44872702which they had entered  on the payment instruction and the scam names held by the 
payee banks.  That additional security measure  is now in place. But at the time it was not 
general industry practice: the account  numbers and sort codes  then being  regarded as 
sufficient. It would be neither fair nor reasonable to judge Barclays by standards  of 
conduct which a body of reasonably prudent, professional bankers did not then follow.   
9.In all the circumstances, I find no persuasive  evidence that Barclays breached its 
common-law duty of care to safeguard G against  the risk of fraud and scams. It could not 
reasonably have foreseen this sort of loss as a result of those transactions;  and I do not 
consider there was anything it could reasonably have done to prevent it. 
10.I am also satisfied  that, on learning  of the scam from G, Barclays  took reasonable steps 
to try to recover the funds  from the payee  banks without undue  delay. But it is common  
knowledge that scammers do normally  remove stolen funds as quickly  as possible in 
order to avoid detection and recovery. As our investigator set out in her chronology, the 
scammers withdrew most of Gs monies within hours of deposit, so there were no 
reasonable prospects of recovering them (save for the £1,340.30 from Lloyds). 
11.Despite my natural sympathy  for G, who have been an innocent victim of a sophisticated 
scam, I am not persuaded that Barclays acted  in breach  of contract or statutory duty 
and/or negligently  so it would be unfair  and unreasonable to hold it liable for payments 
which, under the Regulations, G must  be regarded as having authorised.  
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am unable to uphold  this complaint about Barclays Bank  UK 
plc and therefore make no award against  it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Mark Sceeny
Ombudsman 
i See, for example, caselaw, the Payment  Services Regulations  2017, the Financial  Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook, Consultation Papers, Policy Statements, etc. 
Ref: DRN4487270