K820x#14complaint
Mrs W1 on behalf of the estate of Mrs W2 complains  that Mrs W2 was given unsuitable 
advice by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  to invest  in a portfolio bond.
background
In 2001 Mrs W2 was recommended a Flexible  Release  Plan, a type of Lifetime  mortgage,  
by Aviva and after she had received this money  she received further advice to invest  
£15,000 of the money in a portfolio bond.  Mrs W1 on behalf of her estate has complained 
about the overall advice that was given to Mrs W2 at the time. So this is one of two 
complaints, the other complaint being in relation  to the advice to take out the Lifetime 
mortgage.
In 2006 Aviva recognised that Mrs W2 shouldnt have invested money from the Lifetime 
mortgage in the bond. It cancelled the bond at that time and reduced the Lifetime mortgage 
by the amount invested of £15,000  plus the interest  that had been charged  on this amount.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but thought  what  Aviva had done in 2006 
with regard to the bond  had put things  right and in line with what we wouldve asked  it to do. 
Mrs W1 didnt agree with the investigator. Her letter in response  was in relation to both 
complaints. I have summarised  what I think are the main points in relation to the complaint 
about the bond.
Aviva  (then Norwich Union) sent a letter  to Mrs W2 about its Flexible Release Plan in 
January 2001.
The adviser saw Mrs W2 at home  in March 2001  but instead of just providing her with 
information about the plan he duped her into borrowing an outrageous amount  of 
£32,400 plus interest at 8.25%  on the pretence she wanted a new car.
All 71 year olds are vulnerable.
We want her to forget that the portfolio bond  actually  existed.
The adviser visited Mrs W2 just seven  days after she received the cheque from the 
mortgage and coerced  her into taking out the portfolio bond.
The payment  was actually made by transferring money from a savings account into 
her cheque  account.
By the end of the visit in May 2001  Mrs W2 only had immediate access  to £8,299  of 
the £32,400 borrowed.
As a result  of the advisers  visit Mrs W2s financial position  worsened.
It is evident that the letter sent in 2006  which led to the bond being cancelled  was 
because the writer  was on a fishing expedition to see what  Mrs W2 recalled from 
what happened in 2001 and Aviva  were so concerned she then got a personal  visit.
The outcome  of what Aviva did in 2006 didnt put Mrs W2 back  in the position she 
wouldve been in but for the inappropriate advice  as she still owed £25,939 including  
interest.
That we have no concerns about  the advisers actions in 2001  is very troubling.
Mrs W2 was left distraught and didnt enjoy the benefit of the borrowed money  as 
three quarters of it was spirited away in May 2001.
my findings
Ref: DRN41454662Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mrs W1 is very upset about  what happened to Mrs W2 in 2001, which 
she only became aware of after Mrs W2 sadly died in 2017 and she came to deal with her 
estate.
Mrs W1has provided a very detailed explanation of what she considers the adviser  did 
wrong. Her strength of feeling about what she thinks were  deliberate  acts by the adviser to 
sell unsuitable products to a vulnerable  customer is apparent.  
But whether  the adviser deliberately did things wrong and took advantage  of Mrs W2 or not 
isnt something that affects the outcome of this complaint given what  happened in 2006. So 
whilst I acknowledge Mrs W1s  unhappiness with what she sees as the adviser deliberately  
misleading Mrs W1 it isnt necessary for me to make any specific findings  on this in this 
complaint.
I would also like to make clear that if a business has done  something wrong it isnt part of my 
role to punish it for this. It is to put the person complaining  in this case  Mrs W2s estate - 
as far as possible back in the position they wouldve been in if the business hadnt  done 
something wrong.
It isnt in dispute in this complaint that Aviva did something wrong  and that Mrs W2 shouldnt 
have been advised to invest  in the bond.  This was something Aviva  acknowledged in 2006  
by offering to cancel  the bond  and reduce the Lifetime mortgage by the amount  invested 
plus the interest accrued on that amount  which offer Mrs W2 accepted.
I have considered whether this put Mrs W2 back in the position she wouldve been in  only 
in relation to the advice to invest in the portfolio bond  if she had been given suitable 
advice.
If Mrs W2 had been given  suitable advice she wouldnt  have invested  £15,000  of borrowed 
money in any investment.  So she has to be put in the position she would be in if she had 
never been advised to invest.  
She invested using  borrowed money,  as the adviser  was aware. If this money wasnt  
suitable for investment I think this means putting  her in the position she would  be in if she 
hadnt borrowed the money  this is what Aviva did in 2006.
The effect of this is as if Mrs W2 never invested in the bond. That is not the same  as saying 
the portfolio bond never existed, and there  is no suggestion Mrs W1 is being asked to forget  
that it did, as she seems to think.  I dont think there is anything else Aviva could do to put 
Mrs W2 back  in the position she wouldve been  in if she hadnt been  advised to invest in the 
bond.
I note Mrs W1 has referred  to three  quarters  of the borrowed amount being spirited away in 
May 2001. This is based  on the £15,000 invested in the portfolio bond  and a further £8,000  
which Mrs W1 has said Mrs W2 didnt  have immediate access to. 
This appears  to relate to a savings account  Mrs W1 says Mrs W2 opened in May 2001.  As 
this relates to part of the remaining amount of the mortgage, not the money invested in the 
portfolio bond,  I think it is more appropriate to deal with it within  the other complaint.
Ref: DRN41454663I acknowledge that Mrs W1 doesnt  think Aviva went far enough in 2006 in that it still left 
Mrs W2 with a significant  amount  of borrowing with accruing interest.  And I note Mrs W1s 
comments on the impact of this on Mrs W2. But I also think these are issues  related to the 
other complaint I am considering.
Given my findings this complaint wont be upheld. So it is clear to Mrs W1, this isnt on the 
basis Aviva  didnt do anything wrong  in 2001. It is because it put things right with regard to 
the portfolio bond in 2006, before  the complaint was made by the estate.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4145466