K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs D says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs D aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. Mrs D has told us she was led to believe  the policy was needed for her to 
obtain the card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mrs D applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Mrs Ds application form 
had a separate section for PPI that stated  only sign this box if you require account cover  
this section has been signed  in acceptance  of the PPI and the form has also been signed in 
agreement with the selections that were made on it. With this in mind I think its more likely 
FICL made it clear  that the PPI was optional and that Mrs D chose to have it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ds 
sick pay, and for longer than she would  have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
Ref: DRN43515642Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said including that she had previously had her 
complaint upheld by FICL before it decided to defend it, and also that she felt pressured into 
taking the PPI.
FICL has explained the complaint had previously been upheld  in error, and as I dont  think 
the policy was mis-sold  this doesnt  change my decision.
Pressure can also be subjective so Id need  persuasive evidence to uphold this complaint on 
this basis, which I havent seen. And as Ive explained above, I think  the PPI was presented 
to Mrs D as optional. So this point doesnt change  my decision either.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4351564