K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds) declined their claim on their
caravan insurance  policy for damage caused  by a leaking pipe.
Background
Towards the end of February 2018  poor weather  led to an escape of water  from a pipe in
Mr and Mrs Ps caravan. In mid-March 2018 Mrs P made a claim for the damage on their
policy with Lloyds. And a few weeks  later Lloyds declined this saying the damage  wasnt
insured, as they hadnt turned the stop tap off when they left the caravan. They  referred
Mrs P to the relevant policy terms which actually said there was no cover for escape of water
if the caravan  was left unoccupied for 72 hours and the stop tap hadnt been  turned off and
the water  system drained down. This meant that because the water system  hadnt been
drained down  the damage caused  by the water leaking from the pipe wasnt covered. Mrs P
complained, but Lloyds  didnt alter its decision on the claim.
Mr and Mrs P complained to us. Mrs P has explained that they waited until mid-May 2018 to
put right the damage, as the caravan park told her the claim would be met, others had their
claims paid following similar  circumstances and Lloyds was still considering  the outcome of
their claim. And, while she was able to rent the caravan out again after doing or arranging
the work  to put things right herself, she had to cancel  bookings and was put behind with
making others, which meant she couldnt  cover  the site fees and had to sell the caravan.
Mrs P said the bookings she cancelled were made  verbally, mainly  with friends and family.
And, when  asked if she had any other reasons for selling the caravan, Mrs P said that
owning it and renting it out was too expensive due to its age. She said the park told them it
could rent the caravan  out for them during  summer. But a change in the parks  rental  policy
meant it was too old, so they had to use a private  booking  system instead.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  She said that, while the exclusion
Lloyds had relied on wasnt unusual, it was significant and onerous  and should have been
specifically drawn  to Mr and Mrs Ps attention when they bought  the policy.  As it wasnt,  she
felt this had prejudiced Mr and Mrs Ps position and thought Lloyds should  settle  their claim
because of this.
Lloyds didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August in which I said the following:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive provisionally decided
to uphold it.
Lloyds has relied  on the following exclusion in Mr and Mrs Ps policy to reject their claim:
 What is not insured
Loss or damage
Ref: DRN42054092if your structure is left unoccupied during the period from the 1st October  to the 14th
March unless:
-The water has been turned off at the mains and all equipment fully drained  down,  other
than in respect of a proprietary seated central  heating system containing anti-freeze which is
maintained to the manufacturer's specification, or
- For the duration the park remains open,  prior to your structure being fully drained down,
the water  has been turned  off at the mains  stopcock, all taps are left open, sinks  and plug
holes are left unobstructed, or
- A full central heating system has been  set to operate daily and overnight to avoid  frost
damage.
Unoccupied is defined  as When the structure  is left unattended  by you or a responsible
member of your family, or a responsible adult for a period in excess of 72 hours.
Mr and Mrs P hadnt drained the water system down, so this means  the damage caused  by
the leaking pipe isnt covered by their policy. However, I think this exclusion is onerous and 
significant and should have been  pointed out to Mr and Mrs P when they bought the policy.  
And I also think it should have been highlighted in a proper Insurance  Product Information 
Document, such as a policy summary or key facts document.  This is because when Lloyds 
appointed representative sold the policy it needed  to provide sufficient information about it so 
Mr and Mrs P could  make an informed decision on whether to buy it. And I think  this included 
highlighting significant exclusions. And it is clear from the rules  covering insurance products 
that significant exclusions need  to be included in a suitable product information document.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide anything to show that its appointed  representative
pointed out the exclusion and its said that it didnt provide any sort of product information
document. And Mrs P has said they werent  told anything about  the policy at all. And in fact
assumed it was just a free add on, but later realised theyd paid extra for it.
This means  Lloyds and its appointed  representative  didnt fulfil their obligations when the
policy was sold. And to decide the fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint I need  to
decide whether  this caused Mr and Mrs P any prejudice ie, made a difference  to them.
Lloyds has said Mrs P already knew there was a risk and what  she needed  to do when she
left the caravan unoccupied, given  she asked her neighbour to turn off the stop tap. But I
dont think that having a general knowledge that something might be sensible to do at times
is the same  as appreciating that in order to be covered they need to meet a policy
requirement to turn off the stop tap and drain  the water system,  in set timescales. And I think
if Lloyds or its appointed  representative had fulfilled their obligations and highlighted the
relevant exclusion  Mr and Mrs P would have  arranged  for their neighbour to drain down the
water system in their caravan, as well as turning  off the stop tap. I say this because I dont
think they would have wanted  to risk not being  covered otherwise.
This means  I dont  think the escape  of water, or therefore the claim,  would  have taken place
if Lloyds or its appointed  representative had highlighted the exclusion to Mr and Mrs P in the
way they should have.  And this means the failure  of Lloyds and its appointed representative
to meet  their obligations has prejudiced Mr and Mrs Bs position.
Ref: DRN42054093Mr and Mrs P have  incurred costs putting  right damage that they otherwise wouldnt have
had to, including £82.56  for a new tap and piece of pipe, £59.99 for a dehumidifier,  £11.39
for a rug and £12 for park delivery costs  for the rug. While Mrs P doesnt have receipts for all
of these, the amounts are reasonable  and theyre for items I would expect to see to put right
this type of damage. So I think Lloyds should reimburse Mr and Mrs P £165.94 in total for
these.
Mrs P also says they had to cancel rental  bookings  totalling £2,050 and fell behind making
others. While  Mrs P cant provide  written evidence of this, its reasonable to think they would
have had some bookings at the time of year. The amounts  Mrs Ps told us about arent
excessive and its not unexpected that she doesnt have formal booking  details given shes
told us these were mainly with friends  and family. So Im satisfied that as a result  of Lloyds
and its appointed representative not fulfilling their obligations Mr and Mrs P did lose out on
rental income.
That being  said,  Lloyds  clearly told Mr and Mrs P its outcome around  six weeks  before she
decided to put right the damage herself.  So I think she could have reasonably  done  the work
or had it done  even  sooner than she did to mitigate  the loss in rental  income. In which  case, I
currently think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint Lloyds should
pay Mr and Mrs P £750 for lost rental  income. And I think this amount makes up for some of
the cancelled  bookings and putting  them  a bit behind with others.
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for Mr and Mrs P
feeling they had to sell the caravan though.  As discussed above,  they could have mitigated
the rental losses sooner to help pay the sites fees.  She had been renting  the caravan out
again for a few months by the time they chose to sell it. And I think  its clear  from Mrs Ps
comments that their decision was also due to the overall cost of having and renting out an
older caravan.
I also think the whole issue caused  Mr and Mrs P distress and inconvenience. This is
because of finding out Lloyds wouldnt cover their claim  and the fact theyd have to pay to
put things right themselves. And Mrs P also actually had to spend time on putting right the
damage herself. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs P £250  in
compensation to reflect  this.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and make
Society of Lloyds do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs P £165.94 to reimburse  her for the costs they incurred to put the
damage to the caravan right;
pay Mr and Mrs P £750 towards the rental income they lost out on; and
pay Mrs and Mrs P £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I gave both parties until 10 September to provide further representations. Lloyds has said it 
doesnt have any further representations.  Mrs P has said she thinks the award for distress 
and inconvenience  is on the low side bearing  in mind her state of health.  Shes  also said she 
would have received around £2,000 in rental  income. Mrs P has also said that the 
documents they were provided with didnt stipulate  how long the caravan  could  be left 
unoccupied for. 
Ref: DRN42054094my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Mrs Ps comments on my award  for distress and inconvenience. But, even 
bearing in mind her state of health,  Im satisfied £250 is appropriate  for the level of distress  
and inconvenience  she experienced.  Ive also noted what  shes  said about  the rental income 
shed have received.  But, as I explained  in my provisional decision, I think she could have 
had the work  required carried  out sooner, so I dont think its appropriate to hold Lloyds 
responsible for more  than £750  of this. 
Even if the documents Mr and Mrs P were provided with didnt mention the time the caravan 
could be left unoccupied for without steps  being taken, it doesnt alter my view on the fair 
and reasonable outcome to their complaint. This is because I accept they were not aware of 
the relevant clause and that this prejudiced  their position. 
It therefore follows that I still think what I suggested  in my provisional  decision to put things 
right is the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
order Society of Lloyds do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs P £165.94 to reimburse  them for the costs  they incurred to put 
the damage to the caravan;
pay Mr and Mrs P £750 towards the rental income they lost out on; and
pay Mrs and Mrs P £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2020.
Robert Short
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4205409