K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about various  issues of customer service he received from Adrian Flux 
Insurance Services Group,  a broker, in relation to his motor insurance policies.
background
Adrian Flux arranged several policies for Mr B. Mr B complains about problems he had when 
he contacted Adrian Flux. He says that it gave him incorrect  information  about his policies, 
people were unwilling  to speak to him and letters were sent and signed for by people who 
didnt work  there. Mr B was also concerned that Adrian Flux didnt have accurate information 
about his policies. He said that Adrian Flux told him that it hadnt received his driving licence 
after it had been  signed for. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld  in part. She said it hadnt 
been possible to establish what had happened  in relation to some  of the issues  Mr B raised, 
as the evidence wasnt available. The investigator said that, inevitably,  if Mr Bs calls werent  
answered properly  or his information wasnt found,  there wouldnt be a record of that. So, the 
investigator didnt  have enough information to say whether things had gone wrong.
The investigator obtained information about the policies Adrian Flux had arranged for Mr B 
and gave Mr B an opportunity to say whether that information was incorrect.  
The investigator said that Adrian Flux had received Mr Bs driving licence but that it initially 
told Mr B that it hadnt received it. She said that Adrian Flux had put things right quickly, as it 
called Mr B later the same day. But this matter had caused Mr B distress. He was worried 
that his licence had been stolen and that it might be used. The investigator thought that fair 
compensation for that was £100.
Mr B remained concerned about  various  issues and he didnt think  that compensation of 
£100 was enough. As there  was no agreement between the parties,  the complaint was 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators view for the same reasons. 
Given the nature of some of Mr Bs concerns,  Im afraid that it hasnt been  possible to 
establish exactly what happened. As the investigator said, theres no record  of instances 
where Mr Bs calls werent answered  properly or his information wasnt  found. So, there  are 
no grounds on which to direct Adrian Flux to do anything further about those issues.  
Ive seen that on one occasion,  Adrian Flux told Mr B that it hadnt received his driving 
licence. Mr B says that hed sent it by recorded delivery. Adrian Fluxs notes show  that it had 
in fact received  it. So, Adrian Flux made an error  when it told Mr B that it hadnt received his 
driving licence. Mr B was understandably  concerned about that and about the possible 
scenarios if his licence  was lost or stolen.  Adrian Flux put the matter right shortly  after it 
made the mistake. Nevertheless, Mr B was avoidably concerned.  I agree with the adjudicator  
that fair compensation for that is £100.
Ref: DRN45549202The investigator got information about Mr Bs policies. So he now knows  that Adrian  Fluxs  
records of his policies  are correct. 
I do appreciate that Mr B has been  very worried about the matters hes raised. Considering  
everything, I think the investigators proposed resolution of this complaint  is fair and 
reasonable. I agree with her conclusions and dont see any compelling reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. 
I now require Adrian  Flux Insurance Services Group to pay Mr B compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554920