K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains, through  a claims management  company (CMC) about two Capital 
Guaranteed Accounts (GCAs) he was advised to invest in by HSBC UK Bank Plc, one in 
2001 and the second in 2006. In particular he complains:
It was inappropriate  for HSBC to advise him to invest such  a high proportion of his 
free assets into a risk based  product.
If he had been  given the necessary information  about the likely maximum return  on 
his GCAs compared to the risk free return he couldve achieved  through  a fixed rate 
bond he wouldnt have  invested in them.
He shouldnt have  been advised to take a risk of getting just his capital back  a risk 
to the real value  of his money. 
background
In 2001 Mr A was advised to invest £9,000 in a GCA  the Performance Plus ISA - which 
he surrendered  in 2006 for £9,016. He reinvested his money  in a second GCA in November 
2006 and surrendered this in November 2012  for £10,218.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I didnt uphold the complaint and in short  made the following findings:
The amount  invested  in the 2001  GCA is more likely than not to have been what  was 
held in Mr As TESSA previously and I have  seen no persuasive evidence he was 
advised to invest  too much  of his capital.
The main issue raised by the CMC is that Mr A shouldve been advised  to invest in a 
fixed rate bond instead.
HSBC had referred to average returns of 60% based on the FTSE 100 index  
between 1984  and 2001 but I thought using an average return over such a long 
period gave a more  favourable view of what could happen over the five year term of 
the 2001 GCA than was justified.
The FTSE 100 index  was falling at the time of investment and had been doing  so for 
some months so it wasnt necessarily the best time to invest in a product that was 
dependent on it rising to provide a return.
I didnt think any comparison between the maximum return from the 2001  GCA and 
the return from fixed rate bonds  should be based  on the average return  from fixed 
rate bonds  as Mr A is likely to have wanted  to maximise his return  if he invested in a 
fixed rate bond.
The 2001 GCA did carry a risk, contrary to what HSBC said, namely the risk of no 
return and loss in value of the capital investment in real terms.
Despite the issues I had referred  to with the 2001 GCA   I wasnt satisfied the 
recommendation was unsuitable because it allowed Mr A to carry over the tax 
benefits of his TESSA which he couldnt have  done investing in a fixed  rate bond.
The 2006 GCA was similar but not the same  as the 2001 GCA as only half the 
amount invested  was dependent on how the FTSE 100 index did. The other half 
provided interest at 1.10%  over the Bank of England Base Rate   at the time 5%.
I wasnt satisfied Mr A had invested  as result of advice he had received given the tick 
box which was completed to indicate  advice  wasnt given  was just above  where  he 
signed. So I didnt  think HSBC was responsible for ensuring it was suitable.
Ref: DRN49676242It is possible a fixed rate bond  may have been more suitable  for him at the time but 
given there is no evidence from the time of sale Im not satisfied the 2006  GCA was 
unsuitable even  if HSBC had been responsible  for giving advice.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  further information before making my final 
decision. HSBC  said it had nothing further to add. The CMC said it accepted most of my 
findings. It said that I appeared to be saying  the 2001 GCA was unsuitable but for it allowing  
Mr A to roll over the tax benefits from his TESSA and that, having  reviewed  Moneyfacts  from 
the time,  it appears  there  was a savings plan available that offered 6.75% which  shouldve  
been considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue that has been raised by the CMC  is that there was savings  plan available  that 
offered an interest  rate of 6.75%. It hasnt provided  the evidence  it is referring to but having  
checked Moneyfacts  for the first few months of 2001  I note that HSBC  was offering a 
TESSA only ISA with a rate of 6.75% in January and February 2001. But there is nothing to 
indicate this was a fixed rate so I dont  think this made the 2001 GCA unsuitable and doesnt 
change my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49676243COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains, through a claims management company (CMC) about  two Capital  Guaranteed 
Accounts (GCAs) he was advised to invest in by HSBC  Bank Plc, one in 2001 and the second in 
2006. In particular he complains:
It was inappropriate  for HSBC to advise  him to invest such a high proportion of his free assets 
into a risk based product.
If he had been given the necessary information about the likely  maximum return on his GCAs  
compared to the risk free return he couldve achieved through  a fixed rate bond he wouldnt 
have invested in them.
He shouldnt have  been advised to take a risk of getting just his capital back   a risk to the 
real value of his money. 
background
In 2001 Mr A was advised  to invest £9,000 in a GCA  the Performance Plus ISA - which he 
surrendered in 2006  for £9,016.  He reinvested his money in a second GCA  in November 2006  and 
surrendered this in November 2012 for £10,218.  
HSBC originally argued the complaint about  the 2001 GCA was made too late but after it had been 
referred to us it agreed it was made within  time. But it said it was unreasonable for Mr A to have 
waited over 10 years from when the investment ended to bring a complaint - as it no longer had the 
point of sale documents  and was prejudiced by this as it made it more difficult to establish  whether  the 
GCA was suitable. It said this is something we should take into account.  
On the limited information  it did have HSBC said the 2001 GCA was suitable  for Mr A. It said that at 
the point of sale the prospect of getting a return in excess of that offered by fixed rate bonds wasnt 
unrealistic. And it wouldnt have been known at the time that fixed rate bonds wouldve produced a 
better return  
HSBC said the investment  into the 2006 GCA was a non-advised sale so it wasnt responsible for the 
suitability of that investment.
One of our adjudicators  considered the matter.  He thought the complaint about the 2001 GCA  should 
be upheld but didnt uphold the complaint  about the 2006 GCA.
In terms of the 2001 sale the adjudicator said that even though there was no point of sale material  
available we did know that Mr A was aged 48 and a first time investor  with no investment  experience. 
Based on this information the adjudicator  considered it more likely than not that Mr A was a 'no risk' 
investor in 2001.
The adjudicator didnt think that Mr A would have proceeded with the 2001 GCA if hed fully 
appreciated there was a significant risk of a nil return at the end of the term.  So he wasnt  persuaded 
that this was a suitable  investment for Mr A.
But the adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about the 2006 GCA. He thought Mr A was aware of 
the real possibility  of nil return when he decided to invest again in 2006 because he had made  no gain 
on his 2001 investment so he had chosen to invest in the 2006 GCA  knowing the risk of a nil return. 
HSBC didnt  agree and made the following  comments:
The adjudicators assertions that Mr A was aged 48 and a first time investor  are based purely 
on what  the CMC  said. This is unfair as its not in a position to challenge this as it disposed of 
the paperwork.
Ref: DRN49676244It saw no issues with Mr A being 48 and a first time investor.  It assumes that prior to this he 
may have  been raising a family. He had around 17 years  before he would be considering 
retirement so a medium term investment didnt  seem unreasonable.
Mr A was a skilled  tradesman and as such its a reasonable assumption he was receiving  an 
above average income - although it is accepted there is no information about his income or 
level of deposit savings.
Mr A invested the full maturity value  of his Tax Efficient Special Savings Account  (TESSA) 
into the 2001 GCA and kept it for the full term and then reinvested the full amount he received 
in the 2006 GCA, which he again kept until maturity. This suggests  he wasnt dependent on 
this money and had monies elsewhere  he could access  for planned expenditure  and day to 
day living.
It doesnt  know if the amount invested was the vast majority of Mr As free assets and states 
that this was only an assumption by the adjudicator based on what  the CMC told him.
The two GCAs arent risk based products. Both are rated cautious and both carried  the 
protection of the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme.
Although it is another assumption that Mr A had only previously invested in deposit based 
accounts, this wouldnt be uncommon for someone of his age. And this seems a reasonable 
age to start looking at alternatives to deposit based accounts, to provide potential capital 
growth.
It seems Mr A was a cautious investor, which  again  isnt uncommon with someone who had 
only previously  had deposit based  investments.
There wasnt a significant risk of a nil return on the 2001 GCA, as the adjudicator had said.  
The average return  on the FTSE  100 up to March  2001 was 60% and just because the 
market didnt perform  as well as expected doesnt mean the advice to invest  was unsuitable.  
Fixed rate bonds  may have performed better but the Bank  of England base rate was also 
volatile over the period.
The maximum  return on the 2001 GCA was £4,950 compared to the average return from 
fixed rate bonds of £2,428 - and if the markets had continued to perform as they had before 
the investment  Mr A wouldve received more  from the GCA than from a fixed  rate bond.
It shouldnt be penalised  because it doesnt have point of sale documents that would allow it 
to show  the GCA was a suitable investment for Mr A.
As agreement  couldnt be reached the complaint was referred  to me to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont  think this complaint should be upheld for the reasons I set out below.  I have 
gone into some detail and tried to deal with the various  points that have  been raised  by the parties  as 
fully as possible given  this is a provisional decision. 
The 2001 GCA
I note HSBC has suggested  it is being  penalised  because it doesnt have documents from the point of 
sale. But it isnt uncommon for there to be limited paperwork available about a complaint, as it will be 
Ref: DRN49676245well aware.  That doesnt necessarily mean that it isnt possible to make findings  on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not which is what I have to do. I dont think that this penalises  
HSBC as it suggests, or that limited evidence is generally  a basis for dismissing a complaint.
I also note the criticism HSBC has made about the adjudicator accepting information from the CMC 
about Mr As personal circumstances at the point of sale. But HSBC also relied on this information in 
an email dated 18 June 2018 where it argued that the GCA wasnt an unsuitable investment for an 
inexperienced investor. It has also said that there  is nothing  unusual in someone of 48 being a first 
time investor  and referred to this as being common. So it doesnt appear there is a real issue about  
Mr As lack of experience.
The 2001 GCA worked by adding interest to the initial  capital investment at the end of the five year 
investment period equal to the rise in the level of the FTSE 100 index  but subject to a cap of 55%. 
Also, at the end of the investment period of five years the final level used to calculate what interest is 
payable is the average closing level of the index  over the past 12 months.  So Mr A wouldnt benefit 
fully from a rising index  in the last year, but equally  wouldnt suffer  fully if the FTSE  100 was falling.
From the limited information I have seen the 2001 GCA was introduced as a product  by HSBC so that 
customers with TESSAs could switch  their money to an ISA on maturity  - as TESSAs were no longer  
available to reinvest in. The GCA was promoted as a unique opportunity to reinvest  the capital from 
maturing TESSAs. The brochure stated that customers could continue to shelter up to £9,000  the 
limit for capital investment in a TESSA - from tax, on top of putting  £3,000 in a cash ISA.
So the amount he invested  in the 2001 GCA is more likely than not to do with what was already in Mr 
As TESSA rather than an indication of what money was available for investment. The CMC has not 
provided any evidence of his financial position in 2001 to show what  other capital Mr A had. Given the 
lack of evidence of Mr As financial position, there is no persuasive evidence that he invested too 
much of his available  capital in this one product, or didnt have sufficient  other money  available  for 
emergencies  he hadnt accessed this money whilst  it was being held in a TESSA, so clearly wasnt 
dependent on it. 
 
The main issue raised by the CMC  in this complaint  is that Mr A shouldve been advised to invest in a 
fixed rate bond rather than the GCA. The two products dont carry  the same risks - the GCA has a risk 
of no return  which means  a risk of significant real term loss in value of capital due to inflation  
whereas a fixed rate bond provided a guaranteed return is less likely to result in a loss of capital value  
due to inflation.  
HSBC has said there wasnt a significant risk of Mr A achieving a nil return on the GCA  as the 
adjudicator had said  and it refers to the average return of 60% on the FTSE 100 index for all periods 
from 1984  up to March  2001, including  averaging over the last 12 months.  But Im not persuaded  that 
HSBC are right to use this figure to establish that at the time of sale the adviser had no reason  to 
think a nil return  was a real possibility. Using  an average return over such  a long period  of time gives 
a far more favourable  view of what might  happen to the GCA over its five year term than I think is 
justified. 
Falls over such a long period are less likely to have  an overall impact as there is time for the market to 
recover from such a fall. But a fall over a comparatively short period of five years  would be far more 
difficult to make up. I note in this regard that the FTSE 100 had been  dropping in value  since 
September 2000, so was generally falling in value  at the time of investment and had been for some 
months - so this wasnt necessarily the best time to invest in a product that was dependent on the 
FTSE rising to provide a return.
HSBC has compared the maximum return Mr A couldve achieved with the GCA with the average 
return he couldve had from fixed rate bonds to show that he was potentially much better off investing 
in the GCA. But I think this provides an unreasonably  favourable view of the benefits of the GCA. As I 
have said, the FTSE 100 was generally falling at the time of investment  making it less likely Mr A 
could achieve a maximum  return. I also see no reason to use average returns from fixed  rate bonds 
Ref: DRN49676246as a comparison.  Mr A is likely to have wanted to maximise the returns he could get from his 
investment so I can see no reason why he wouldnt have invested in a fixed rate bond providing a 
higher than average return.
I note HSBCs  reference  to the GCA not being a risk based product,  but it did have risks,  in particular 
the risk of no return and resulting loss in value of the capital investment in real terms.
HSBC has referred  to the BoE base rate also being volatile over the period of the investment.  But if 
Mr A had invested in a fixed rate bond  over five years,  the return he received  wouldnt have been 
affected by any volatility in interest rates.
Given my findings there are clearly some potential issues about the suitability of the GCA  when Mr A 
couldve invested in a fixed rate bond instead which wouldve provided him with the capital protection  
he wanted with a reasonable return.
But I think that ignores  what the 2001 GCA was designed to do. Namely to allow customers to carry  
over the tax benefits they had with their TESSA accounts into a new product that continued that tax 
protection. I think it is more  likely than not that Mr A wanted the tax benefits of the 2001 GCA. And 
this wasnt  something he could have got by investing in a fixed rate bond.  So, in the circumstances of 
this complaint, despite the issues I have identified with the GCA, Im not persuaded that it was 
unsuitable for Mr As particular  needs at the time he invested.
The 2006 GCA
 
The 2006 GCA was similar, but not the same as the 2001 GCA. It provided a capital  guarantee and 
also paid interest at the end of the six year term based on growth  in the FTSE 100 index, as with the 
2001 GCA  but this was only for half the amount invested. 
The other  half paid interest based on the Bank of England  (BoE)  Base rate plus 1.10% - this was 
5.00% in November 2006, so at the time of initial investment this was providing  a reasonable amount 
of interest.
The first issue  about the 2006 GCA is whether Mr A invested in this based on advice, or chose to 
invest himself  on an execution-only basis. The adjudicator thought  the sale of the GCA was an 
advised sale despite a box being ticked on the application  that he signed  that stated he hadnt 
received any advice. HSBC  did not challenge  the adjudicators opinion  on this but as I am reviewing 
this complaint I still have to decide whether  I think advice was given.
The CMC has said Mr A recalls that when  investing in the 2006 GCA he went  through  a similar  
process as the one he went through  in 2001, which involved seeing someone in branch to discuss  the 
investment. But recollections from so long ago -12 years - are unlikely to be entirely reliable. 
The tick box, stating that the instruction to invest was his and he hadnt received advice, is just above 
the signature box. I think it is more likely  than not that Mr A wouldve been  aware of the statement  and 
if he had been given advice I think it is unlikely  he wouldve signed to say he hadnt. Im also mindful 
that he will have known how the 2006  GCA  worked because of his previous investment  so this 
wasnt something he necessarily needed  advice on.
Im also mindful  that the application was for reinvestment of his 2001 GCA  into another  GCA, to 
continue with the benefits  with regard to tax he had.
 
In other words this was a product he didnt need  advice about given his previous experience of it. In 
the circumstances there isnt sufficient evidence  for me to be satisfied that Mr A was advised to invest  
in the 2006 GCA and on that basis I dont think HSBC are responsible for ensuring  it was suitable  for 
Mr A.
Ref: DRN49676247Given this is a provisional decision I have also considered whether the 2006 GCA  was suitable, in 
case I change my decision about it being an execution-only sale. 
Mr A knew how that part of the 2006 GCA linked to FTSE 100 worked - given  his previous investment 
in the 2001 GCA. And I have  no reason to think he wouldnt have  understood how being linked to the 
BoE base rate worked. A fixed rate bond may still have been a better fit for him but Im not satisfied, 
given there  is no evidence available form the time of the sale and Mr As previous investment in a 
similar product,  that the 2006 GCA was not suitable for him. 
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my 
decision before 6 January 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4967624