K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a Silver packaged bank account.
Background
Mrs Ks account history is as follows:
February 2008: opened as a fee-free account,
May 2009: changed to a Silver account,
July 2018:  changed to a fee-free account.  
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think the Silver account had been         
mis-sold. Mrs K disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ks complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds mis sold the Silver account. Ill explain why.
Mrs K says she felt she had no other option than to pay for a packaged account because  
she was told British  banks  had abandoned selling fee-free accounts. Shes said she was 
called into a meeting  and was told to choose  between the Silver  account or the Platinum 
account. Lloyds  has said that fee-free account were still widely available  and the contact 
note from the day for the upgrade shows Mrs K agreed to the account  charge. 
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think its more likely Mrs K was 
aware the fee-paying Silver account  was optional and that she was given a clear choice to 
take it out. While  I dont doubt  Mrs K has given her honest recollection of what happened, on 
balance, I think its more  likely she was aware she could have a fee-free account. I say this 
because fee-free accounts were widely advertised  and available from banks, building 
societies and other financial institutions. And Mrs K had previously held a fee-free account 
with Lloyds for at least a year.  In addition to this, the contact note completed from the time of 
the sale shows there was a discussion  about  the benefits and the charge was agreed. And I 
think its more likely  this is what happened. 
Both Lloyds  and Mrs K agree that the Silver account was recommended  to her. This means 
that Lloyds had to make  sure it was right for her based on her circumstances at the time. At 
the time of the sale the main benefits included, European travel insurance,  breakdown  cover, 
mobile phone insurance  and card protection. Mrs K has said she didnt drive  at the time of 
the sale, she had an old mobile phone and when she travelled, it was to visit family. So, she 
didnt need the benefits. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  I can see that Mrs K travelled quite regularly around the 
time of the upgrade, and I see no reason why she couldnt have relied on the travel 
insurance. I appreciate  shes  said she could use the healthcare in her families country, but 
Ref: DRN48716462the insurance provided more than medical cover. For example, it also covered against  lost 
baggage and cancelled flights. So, I still think  she couldve found it useful. 
Mrs K also registered a hand set on the mobile  phone insurance ten days after upgrading 
the account. I understand shes now said this was an old phone  which  wasnt  worth insuring. 
But I dont think its fair to say this means she didnt have a need for the cover.  And the 
registration of a handset  for the mobile  phone  insurance suggests she thought  it was worth 
insuring that mobile  phone at least. And I note that the Silver account was the cheapest 
account to offer both travel insurance  and mobile phone  insurance. So, I think it was the 
most suitable account for her based  on her circumstances. 
Lloyds also had to give Mrs K enough information about the account so she could make sure 
she wanted it. Its possible she wasnt told everything she needed to know about the ins and 
outs of the account. But I think its likely  the advisor  would  have told her about  the main  
benefits on the account, seeing as they were trying to make the account sound  attractive  to 
her. And as she was able to register a handset  on the mobile  phone  insurance, I do think  
she was given enough information to understand what  she was agreeing  to. 
I accept that Mrs K may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe she hasnt benefitted  from 
the account as much  as shed hoped and expected  to when she initially  took it out. And 
given what she may have read or heard about packaged bank accounts in general, I can 
understand why she might now think this account was mis-sold. But I think Mrs K agreed to 
accept what, on the face of things, was a reasonable  recommendation. So, I want  to 
reassure Mrs K that Ive independently looked at all the information provided  about her 
complaint. And having given careful  thought  to whats been provided  and listened to 
everything shes said, I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold  the Silver account  to her.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4871646