K822xcomplaint
Mr M says Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited were responsible for delays in moving his three 
pension pots into a single drawdown arrangement.  He was also unhappy with how it had 
handled the whole episode.
background
Following the passing  of his wife in 2017,  Mr M decided it was time to get his pension  affairs  
in order. He enlisted the services of an independent financial adviser and they met in 
September and October 2017  to assess his options.
Mr Ms adviser obtained illustrations for his three pension plans (which  happened to be held 
within the Aviva group). After considering all the information and an offer of preferential rates 
from his provider if it retained his business, Mr M decided in January 2018  to move his funds 
into a single pension  plan with a drawdown facility, remaining with Aviva.
Unfortunately matters didnt proceed smoothly. Aviva was in the process  of moving  to a new 
platform and there  were teething issues. His adviser  was concerned  that there were 
problems with paying income  in the new system, so he delayed proceeding with the 
application. Mr M was in agreement.
At the beginning  of March 2018 Mr Ms adviser had been informed by Aviva  that all the 
problems would be sorted within 4-6 weeks. But despite later assurances the platform was 
capable of accepting  business, further problems arose.
I wont give a blow by blow account because I think both parties are in broad agreement  
about what happened. 
In summary,  Mr Ms adviser  was unable to obtain the range of updated pension illustrations 
required, for example to support his recommendations report. Even when he did manage to 
access the information on 3 August 2018,  Aviva still wasnt able to produce exactly  what  was 
required.
It then materialised that one of Mr Ms former pensions was a Section 32 plan which meant  it 
benefitted from guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) provisions. Aviva  had initially provided 
incorrect information about this plan in November 2017. The problem here was that Mr Ms 
initial consideration of his options had been  based around what his adviser had been told.
Further, Mr Ms Section 32 plan required specialist review which  it advised  late on could  take 
a further 12 weeks.  And even though  it didnt  take that long, Mr M was then informed that 
because the GMP  wasnt met by his fund that his plan couldnt  be transferred after all.
These matters were ultimately overcome. Mr Ms first and second pensions  were switched 
into his new drawdown  plan with Aviva in early August 2018. And his third pension 
transferred across in September 2018.
As well as the substance of what happened, Mr M is also unhappy with Avivas handling 
throughout. Ive seen  emails in which Mr M expresses dissatisfaction with its service as early  
as March 2018. 
Ref: DRN47737542For example, he was particularly unhappy  with one member of staff who he says initially  told 
him it wasnt having problems with the platform,  despite the opposite being true. He was 
frustrated because Aviva didnt deliver on its promises. And when it eventually responded to 
his complaint it wrote to his adviser in the first instance.
Aviva has apologised  to Mr M. To try and put things right it smoothed  the position on his 
Section 32 plan so that the transfer could take place,  recognising  its initial error here. It 
agreed to meet the extra  costs incurred  by his adviser. And it offered Mr M £500  in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Mr M didnt  think  Aviva  had done  enough. He wanted more compensation because  hed 
been unable  to draw on his pension  for several  months. I also recognise what  hes told us 
that he didnt want the extra compensation for himself, but that hed be paying  any funds to a 
worthy cause.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. She thought what Aviva  had done to put 
things right was fair. Mr M disagree  and so his complaint was passed to me for review. I 
issued my provisional decision in November. Ive not received any new evidence  or 
arguments, so I see no reason  to depart from my initial  conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Given what Ive set out already, as both parties  are in broad agreement  about the things that 
went wrong, the focus of my decision will be on what is the appropriate level of 
compensation in this case.
Ill start by examining what  Aviva  has done  to try and put things right.
It accepted that the information  it had sent to Mr Ms adviser  in November 2017 about his 
Section 32 plan had been  incorrect. This was used as part of the basis  for advising him 
about his future arrangements. Strictly speaking, when it was found the funds  in that plan 
were insufficient to meet the GMP protections, the transfer shouldnt  have  proceeded. 
But because of what Aviva had got wrong  it took action to enhance Mr Ms position so that 
things could move forward. I think this showed flexibility and that it wanted to do the right 
thing.
Mr Ms adviser provided a breakdown for Aviva setting out all the extra work he had 
undertaken as a result of problems with the platform and other issues related to arranging  
the switch/transfer.  This included additional calls and email communications  both with Aviva 
and Mr M. He estimated  a cost of £1500. He noted that it would be unfair for Mr M to pick up 
these fees. Aviva agreed to meet these costs in full. I think  it acted  fairly  in doing so.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ms, I think about  whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone  wrong,  recognition 
of the emotional  and practical impact can make  a real difference.
Ref: DRN47737543Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  When thinking about  compensation, I need to decide  
that the impact  of Avivas actions was greater  than just a minor inconvenience  or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.  And I think thats what Aviva thought too.
Aviva proposed a payment for Mr M of £500  in recognition of the things it had got wrong. 
Thats considered  a substantial award  by this Service. I know  this matter isnt about the 
money for Mr M, its the principle. And I know hes intending to donate  any compensation to 
a worthy cause. But I think Avivas offer was about right.
I can see that both Mr M and his adviser were communicating with Aviva about  the things 
that were going  wrong. I think this mayve  led to some confusion  about who was in the lead, 
and perhaps explains  why it initially provided  its final response via his adviser, which I know 
Mr M was unhappy about. I think the complainants had some responsibility for coordinating 
their approach.
The investigator asked  Mr M about  what other financial impact hed suffered as a result of 
what happened with his pension arrangements. He told us:
During the period  Sept 2017  [August  2018] I had to cut my cloth accordingly and live on 
state pension  and a pension from my late wifes  employment and at times had to dip into 
savings to cover work done on home  etc. As discussed, my drawdown based on £2000 per 
month that started Sept 2018 -11 months later than I would have expected. Lack  of these  
funds impacted on my lifestyle and not allowing me to get my life back  on track sooner after 
my wifes death.
I understand the argument Mr M makes  here.  And I recognise this was happening at a very 
difficult time in his life. 
Mr Ms adviser said that it wasnt until January 2018 that hed made a decision  about what  to 
do with his pension  arrangements.  So, I think its from that point I need to think about where 
responsibility for delay  sits and the impact this had.
Ive no doubt Mr M was careful  with his expenditure given the situation. And that he had to 
use some  of his savings. But although Mr M was unable to take money from his pension  pot, 
that meant  his funds  werent diminished.
Mr M hasnt  informed us of any penalties he incurred by drawing on his savings in order to 
supplement his income. Its possible this was a more efficient use of his resources given the 
generally low interest  rates available at the time,  especially  when compared  with returns on 
his funds.
And Mr M didnt say hed exhausted his savings, so if hed needed  to use more  it sounds as 
though this wouldve been possible.  Although there  were delays with his new pension  
arrangements there was no reason  to suspect that matters  wouldnt be resolved eventually.  
So, he was always likely to be able to rebalance  his finances  when things were  sorted.
However, there is one area where  Id like Aviva to do some  further work.  Thats  in relation to 
the impact of the timing of the switch/transfer of Mr Ms former pension  plans.
Ref: DRN47737544Aviva notes Mr Ms adviser had concerns  about  its platform in January  2018 and this 
influenced his decision to delay the application. It says he assumed that if the switch/transfer 
had gone ahead, Mr Ms plan wouldve been  affected. But it said we cant  know what  
wouldve happened because  the issues it was facing were  sporadic and didnt  affect 100% of 
users.
Aviva also says it doesnt doubt  the adviser believed he was acting in the best interests of 
Mr M by delaying,  but until his application  was submitted on 27 July 2018,  Mr M wasnt 
committed to using  Aviva and he was free to use any other provider.
I understand the arguments Aviva makes  here,  which arent without  merit. But from what  Ive 
read it appears Mr M was committed early on to remaining its customer. Hed been with it for 
many years and was also attracted by the concessionary rates he was being offered. And its 
clear from the investigation Aviva  completed  and its responses to Mr M and his adviser,  it 
accepted theyd been affected by the problems they experienced with its platform.
I cant know for sure when Mr Ms pension plans  wouldve been switched/transferred had 
everything gone smoothly. But I think its more likely  than not Mr M had decided to open  a 
new drawdown arrangement with Aviva from January 2018. He accepted  advice to hold off 
applying until issues with the platform were resolved. Assurances were given by Aviva  in 
early April 2018 that the system was working   but that proved not to be the case.
Moving pensions  doesnt happen overnight. Even  though all Mr Ms plans  were  held within  
the Aviva  Group,  it wouldve involved coordination across a number  of teams. In particular 
where transfers involve  relinquishing guarantees and protections  these are naturally more 
involved. 
On balance, I think Aviva should take responsibility for some of the delay in bringing about 
Mr Ms new pension arrangements. To keep things simple, and bearing in mind the situation 
Ive outlined, I think it would be fair to assume that the switch  and transfer  of all Mr Ms 
former plans  into his new drawdown  pension arrangement with Aviva shouldve  been 
effective from 1 May 2018.
Putting things  right
Overall, I think Aviva  has accepted responsibility  for the things that went  wrong  with Mr Ms 
pension arrangements. And its acted reasonably in trying to put things right for him.
As Ive set out, I do think it should go a little further and provide Mr M with reassurance with 
regard to the position he mightve been in with his fund had the arrangements  for his new 
drawdown pension  plan been made earlier by making certain calculations and sharing these 
with him in as simple  a format as possible.
Given that two of Mr Ms pensions were  switched in August 2018  and his remaining plan 
transferred in September 2018, Aviva needs to calculate what  the value of his drawdown  
pension pot wouldve been now had the new arrangements been in place by 1 May 2018.
To manage  Mr Ms expectations here,  I note that his funds were  never out of the market. Ive 
concluded his new arrangements  shouldve  been set up earlier  essentially.  So, Im asking 
Aviva to check whether  there was any financial detriment to him of remaining invested in his 
former pension plan investments longer than necessary, compared to what his funds 
wouldve achieved by being invested  in his new drawdown arrangement  on 1 May 2018. 
Ref: DRN47737545I dont know how Mr Ms former pension plans were  invested. I dont know whether he took 
on more or less investment risk through his new drawdown pension plan. I dont know  what  
the impact of fees and charges was with regard to each arrangement.  And Im mindful we 
are talking about an impact over a relatively  short  period  of time. All of these are important 
factors in understanding the outcome of the calculations made.  
So, Mr M may or may not have suffered an investment loss. If he has, the basic  sum 
identified relating to the period between when his new arrangement  shouldve  been in place  
and when it came to be in operation, should be increased by Aviva  to account for the 
performance of his fund from the appropriate  dates  until it settles.
If possible, any loss identified should be paid into Mr Ms drawdown plan. However, if this 
would conflict with any protection or allowance, then it should  pay him compensation as a 
cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. If Mr M is a basic rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would 
reduce the amount payable (after  any allowance for tax-free cash),  equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited  should  carry out the calculation Ive set out above to assess  and make good any 
loss to Mr M resulting from the delay Im holding it responsible for in switching/transferring 
his pensions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4773754