K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Ms E. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. The 
PPI was sold on the phone about two months after Ms E got her card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Ms E has said, but Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Ms E signed,  does  set out the PPI as a choice, and asks Ms E to tick a box 
if she wants the PPI. No box has been ticked,  but thats to be expected  as Ms E didnt buy 
the PPI at this point.  
Instead it was sold about two months  later, during a phone call. I can understand why Ms E 
doesnt remember this as it was so long ago. 
Ms E has said the PPI wasnt explained  properly. It doesnt seem that FICL recommended  
the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Es individual  needs. This means it didnt have  
to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Ms E to decide  whether it 
was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Ms E clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to 
Ms E on the phone or afterwards. So Ive thought  about  whether better  information  is likely to 
have made  a difference. But given Ms Es circumstances at the time, even if shed been 
given all the necessary  information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her 
decision. 
I say this because  its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could  have  kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts.  So the PPI is likely still to have  seemed potentially  useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
Ref: DRN48588072my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4858807