K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains when Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) sent her a 
replacement debit card they automatically  included a contactless  facility.
background
Miss N brought  her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response she received 
from Halifax in relation to her concerns.  She thought theyd had acted inappropriately by 
automatically including a contactless  facility  on the replacement card. She thought  she 
should not have had to opt out of the contactless facility and doing  so had caused her 
inconvenience and to be out of pocket.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint but as a gesture of goodwill they refunded Miss Ns call 
costs of £8. They told Miss N the bank had made a business decision, after the contactless 
facility was introduced,  that when a card was renewed or issued due to an account change  it 
would have the contactless facility,  if eligible. They  told Miss N this was based on many 
factors and wasnt a decision  they were looking to change at the moment but had noted  her 
comments. They explained the card could still be used with the Chip and PIN method and 
theyd noted Miss N had opted out of the contactless function so future renewals  would be 
sent without that facility.
Our investigator found Halifax had provided  evidence to show  customers  affected by the 
discontinuation of a certain account and its change to a current account on 27 June 2018 
had been notified of this change in advance. And the letter sent by Halifax  included  
information on the extra features that would be available with this change  - including the 
contactless card which would be sent when  a current card expired. The letter also told 
customers who didnt accept the changes that they could close the account before 25 June 
2018. The investigator thought once Miss N called Halifax on 28 September 2018  to opt out 
theyd aced fairly and reasonably issuing a new card the next working day and reimbursing 
her call costs.
The investigator also thought he couldnt  say it unfair, as a business  wide approach, for 
Halifax to decide  to issue contactless  cards  automatically based on customer  feedback. And 
by providing sufficient notification of the change in account with the added  features - along  
with how a customer could act if they didnt  agree to the changes  He couldnt say Halifax 
had done anything wrong.
Miss N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint. She repeated the 
points she made earlier  not wanting  contactless and being fearful of accidentally  activating it 
and that the customer  should have to opt into this rather than opt out as shed had to do. 
She also told us shed been  without  her card for a considerable  time and incurring the call 
costs to opt out was a double blow for her as she was vulnerable,  on a tight budget and 
needed access to her funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion.  Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators 
Ref: DRN40918502already told Miss N. I think hes covered most points quite  clearly  and I agree with his 
analysis and conclusions.  Ill explain  why.
Miss N says she wasnt aware of the changes and the updated facilities such  as contactless  
that would  be provided. But Im not persuaded thats the case. The records  Halifax  sent to 
this service satisfy me that they gave enough  advance notice to Miss N that the type of 
account she held with them until 27 June 2018 was discontinued and eligible customers 
were transferred to a current  account unless they closed their accounts by 25 June 2018. 
Halifax has sent a sample  of the letter sent to customers informing them of this change. Ive 
no reason to think this wasnt  sent to Miss N along  with other customers affected. And - even 
if Miss N didnt  receive the letter from the general  mailing about  this account - she wouldve 
seen from her statements  from June  2018  onwards that her account was no longer given the 
same name as now described as a current account.  But I cant see that she contacted 
Halifax at any time before  28 September 2018 to question  this.
Although Im sorry to hear of Miss Ns difficulties I dont think the time it took for a 
replacement card to get to her was unreasonable. And I think Halifaxs  refund of the £8 call 
costs was reasonable in all the circumstances.
Given how strongly Miss N feels about  what happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
her dispute  with Halifax informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss N.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4091850