K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  about the charges applied to her bank account by Santander UK plc 
(Santander).
background
Miss O says shes  been stuck in a cycle of charges she cant break out of with Santander for 
around 10 years. Shes had an overdraft throughout  that time that currently stands at £1,400.  
Santander has rejected pleas  for a review  of her situation. And shes struggled  to pay for 
basic necessities, including food and utility bills.
So, Miss O says she wants  the charges Santander  has applied to her account over the last 
10 years  to be refunded,  with interest.
Santander says its records  confirm Miss O has an agreed overdraft of £1,400 on her 
account. As per the account terms and conditions, customers will be charged for using an 
agreed overdraft facility. Its tariff of charges will have changed during the last 10 years. And 
it gives customers written  notice of any proposed changes, with a notice period that allows  
them to move their account elsewhere if theyre not happy with the changes to the terms.
Our investigator thought Miss Os complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said he felt Santander 
had been clear what the charges would  be for Miss O to use her overdraft. As far as he 
could see theyd been applied in line with the account terms and conditions.  And hed seen 
information that Santander had taken steps  to help Miss O, including  refunding  some  
charges.
The investigator also said this service is generally only able to consider complaints about 
things that happened within six years before the complaint is made.  So, hed only looked  at 
the charges Santander applied to Miss Os account  from 2013  onwards.
Miss O disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said she didnt believe Santander 
had altogether acted  fairly and that there  should be at least  a part refund  or cancellation of 
the overdraft thats still outstanding. And shes not suggesting bank charges are unfair,  
rather that in this instance Santander should  be willing  to review her complaint with a view to 
breaking whats clearly been  a cycle  of charges.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Os complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Miss O has had an overdraft on her Santander  current account throughout the last 10 
years. But as the investigator pointed out, this service is generally  only able to consider 
complaints about  things  that happened  within six years before the complaint is made. And 
Santander hasnt  consented to us looking back any further, as its entitled  to. So, this means 
my decision  relates only to the charges  Santander applied to Miss Os account from 2013 
onwards.
Ref: DRN47934422The information Ive seen indicates  the terms of Miss Os account  entitle  Santander to apply  
charges if she uses her overdraft facility.  And I note Miss O doesnt suggest  she was 
unaware of these charges. So, I cant conclude Santander did anything  wrong  in applying 
overdraft charges to Miss Os account.
I also see Miss O feels Santander shouldve done more to help her in view of her financial 
situation. 
This service expects businesses to be positive and sympathetic to a customer in financial 
difficulty. And I see Miss O has had contact with Santanders financial assistance team. I 
also see when it learned of her financial situation some charges  were refunded  to her 
account. In addition, I see Santander  has indicated  its willing to consider arranging  a 
repayment plan thats affordable to Miss O. So, Im satisfied Santander has been positive 
and sympathetic in its dealings  with her.
So, whilst Ive sympathy for Miss O, Im satisfied Santander has responded appropriately  to 
her circumstances. And, for these reasons, I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold  her 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Os complaint against Santander UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2020. 
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4793442