K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that a car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by
Hartwell Finance Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In February 2017,  Ms F acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement financed  by
Hartwell.
In May 2017, Ms F says she noticed  the coolant  was leaking and that this continued to be a
problem for a number  of months. The dealership said they arranged a free of charge
inspection of the car on the basis that if the fault was deemed not to have been  there  at the
point of purchase, Ms F would be liable for the cost of repair. They  say Ms F agreed  to this
and the expansion tank was replaced.
In September  2017, Ms F experienced  the same  issue with the coolant  leak and took her car
to her local garage. The invoice from this date shows the car had done 47,655 miles. A
service was carried out at Ms Fs requests and this showed the car was still losing coolant.
In January 2018, the invoice provided  by Ms F from her local garage  shows the car had
done 48,321 miles.  A pressure test was carried out on the coolant  system which  showed  a
slight loss of water.
In March 2018, the invoice shows the car had done 48,511 miles and it was at this point that
the thermostat housing was replaced.  Ms F has told us this repair fixed  the coolant issue.
Ms F also complains that there was a problem with the spark  plug in April 2018 and that the
spark plugs in the car werent checked  prior to acquiring it. As a result of the spark  plug not
being in good condition,  it looks like part of the spark plug may have come off in the engine.
Ms F would like to terminate the hire purchase agreement, receive a refund of the payments
shes made and also get a refund  of the repair costs shes paid.
Hartwell say there is no evidence to suggest the faults Ms F experienced were there at the
time she acquired the car. They also say there wasnt anything  to suggest  the spark  plug
was likely to fail and that this was a rare fault. Hartwell offered  Ms F access to an interest
free loan facility  so she can spread  the cost of repairing the engine over as long a period as
is necessary.
Ms F is also unhappy that the car was used as a courtesy car leading  up to her acquiring it.
Our case handler looked into Ms Fs complaint. He ultimately  said the car was serviced
before it was acquired by Ms F and that four spark  plugs had been replaced in 2016. So he
doesnt think Hartwell  are responsible for the faulty  spark plug or the damage it caused to
the engine. He also thought as Ms F had completed around 10,000 miles since  the point she
acquired the car it was likely the issue with the spark plug was down to wear and tear.
Ms F disagreed. She said she understood the spark plug may have been changed in 2016.
But due to the quality of the spark plug,  she doesnt  believe they were  only in use for around
16,000 miles. Ms F also said the right make of spark plug wasnt  used. So the complaint has
been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint setting out:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
Ref: DRN48774032appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. Ms Fs 
hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to it. Hartwell supplied the goods  i.e. the car, to Ms F and 
they are therefore  responsible for a complaint about the quality  of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is of particular  relevance  to this complaint.  It says that 
under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances.
Where a brand new car is supplied the expectation  is that the car is free from even minor  
defects. But with used  cars, the car will show some signs of wear  and tear and this is 
reflected in the price paid for the car. In this instance, Ms F acquired a used car that was 
around five years old and had travelled  around  38,000 miles.
The price  of the car was considerably lower than it would have been if it had been  supplied 
new. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect  that parts of the car 
might have already  suffered wear  and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need  
repair and/or  maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn  when it was 
supplied.
In order for me to agree  that Hartwell should be held responsible for the two fundamental 
defects Ms F noticed with the car  the persistent coolant leak and the damaged  spark  plug,  
Id have to be satisfied the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
coolant leak
The invoice provided for the first repair in May 2017 doesnt show  the mileage Ms F did at 
this point. But what I do know  is that Ms F covers around 10,000 miles per year in her car. 
So on balance, at the point of this repair, I think its likely Ms F covered around 2,000  - 3,000  
miles.
Ive thought about the repairs carried out by the dealership and those carried  out by Ms Fs 
local garage. Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied this issue with the coolant  and the 
follow up repairs were required. I accept that the dealership carried  out the first repair, 
however, Im not persuaded this initial fix satisfactorily resolved the matter. I say this 
because I can see from the invoices Ms F has provided after the first repair that the coolant  
leak continued to be a persistent issue. Therefore, given the mileage covered at the point 
this problem started,  which  Ive explained I think was around 2,000  3,000 miles and how 
long Ms F had the car, Im satisfied this fault was present or at the very least developing  at 
the point of acquiring the car. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car this old, 
after having  done around 2,000  3,000 miles,  to have  a coolant leak at this point.  So I think  
this fault would make the car of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ms F told us she chose to go to her local garage after the initial repair by the dealership  in 
May 2017, as she no longer had trust in the dealership. Ms F also said the reason she didnt 
go back to Hartwell was because she felt like there was a lot of back  and forth before the 
dealership ultimately  agreed to replace the expansion  tank and I can see from the receipt 
attached to the invoice  that Ms F paid for this repair. So I think  its fair and reasonable for 
Hartwell to refund Ms F the cost of replacing the expansion tank,  the cost of the pressure  
test and the cost of replacing the thermostat housing. I say this because whilst it was her 
Ref: DRN48774033choice not to take the car back to the dealership for repairs,  Ms F has given a plausible  
reason as to why she didnt go back to them. And I dont think  her explanation was 
unreasonable. In any event, it appears  the dealership were asking her to pay for repairs they 
felt she was liable for anyway, so it was Ms Fs decision to go to her local garage.
I wont be asking Hartwell  to refund the cost for the service Ms F asked for in September  
2017 as this was upon her request and she had the full benefit  of the service. Ms F told us 
the coolant issue appeared to have been resolved with the last repair   in March 2018 when 
the thermostat housing was replaced  by her local garage.
damaged spark plug
Ms F says she took her car back  to her local garage  in April 2018 (a year after Ms F first 
acquired the car) as a result of there being  an issue with one of the spark plugs  Ms F says 
she doesnt think it was likely the spark plugs in the car had only been  in use for 16,000  
miles. Ms F has sent us a copy  of the repairs invoice from her local garage in April 2018.  
The invoice noted that the spark plugs werent in a good condition  and one of the plugs had 
damage to the ceramic end which the garage believes caused damage to the engine.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report which provides the inspectors comments  on 
the spark  plugs. The inspector said the service  booklet didnt stress  that the spark plugs 
should be changed at any particular point.  The report  also explains that the independent 
inspector was presented with the original spark plug that was removed from the vehicle and 
that the ceramic had deteriorated  and broken  up. So Im satisfied there was a fault with the 
spark plug.
Ive then gone on to consider whether the issue with the spark plug was present and 
developing at the point of acquirement and whether the car was sufficiently durable. In order 
to do this, Ive thought  about the age and mileage of the car when the damaged  spark  plug 
was identified - I can see the invoice confirms the total mileage was around  48,700  and the 
car was around six years old.
Hartwell say the spark plugs were replaced  during  a service in April 2016. Ms F says she 
doesnt believe the spark  plugs were  changed  before  she acquired the car as she says the 
ones present in the car had been  worn down significantly. I can see the independent  report 
mentions that the spark  plugs  appear to be the original ones from the point of supply. I think 
there is conflicting evidence as to whether the spark plugs were changed or not before Ms F 
acquired the car. But in any event, Ms F was still able to drive 10,000 miles before the 
problem with the spark plug occurred. Im mindful  of the information that has been  provided 
surrounding at what mileage the spark  plugs ought to be changed.  However, based on the 
evidence available, I dont  think I can say the problem with the spark plug was
present or developing at the point  of supply. Therefore, I cant say the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable and that it was of unsatisfactory quality.
Ultimately, the issue I have to consider is whether I think a reasonable person would expect 
there to be problems such as Ms F has experienced with the spark plug given the number of 
miles the car had travelled and its age.
I appreciate it is very disappointing when faults  occur with used cars and these can be 
expensive to repair. Its not clear what caused the fault but considering Ms F had the car for 
about a year at the point the fault occurred with the spark plug, I dont think  Ms F couldve 
travelled 10,000 miles had the car (but for the coolant leak)  not been  of satisfactory quality. 
Ref: DRN48774034Hartwell arent responsible for general wear and tear problems or the general up keep of the 
car. Having  considered the circumstances here, as Ive explained, I dont  think they were 
liable for all the faults shown with the car.
I note Ms Fs comment that shes unhappy she found out the car was used as a courtesy car 
up to the point she acquired it. And I can appreciate Ms Fs concerns about this. However, 
given Ms F was able to drive a further  10,000 miles since  acquirement, I think  its unlikely 
this fault was due to the car being used as a courtesy car.
I note Hartwell offered  Ms F interest  free loan facility to spread the cost of repairing the 
engine over as long a period as is necessary. So Ms F should contact Hartwell  directly 
should she wish to arrange this.
Hartwell responded  and confirmed they accept  my provisional decision. Ms F responded and 
said:
The spark  plugs  had been replaced with second hand ones prior to Ms F acquiring 
the car. Ms F says she thinks this is what eventually led to a problem with the engine.  
The car should have been sold with new spark plugs and not replaced  with spark 
plugs that dont suit the requirements of a turbo  charged engine.
As my provisional decision  said that the coolant  leak would make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply, Ms F has asked if Hartwell should take 
the car back and refund her. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about what Ms F has said that the spark plugs had been changed to 
second hand ones prior to acquiring the car. As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think  
there is conflicting evidence as to whether the spark plugs were changed or not before Ms F 
acquired the car. But in any event, Ms F was still able to drive 10,000 miles before the spark  
plug became faulty and I dont think Ms F couldve travelled 10,000  miles had the problem 
with the spark plug been present or developing at the point of supply. I dont think  theres 
enough evidence  to say the spark plugs werent  durable.
I note Ms Fs comment that the spark plugs  in the car didnt suit the power requirements of a 
turbo charged engine.  Ive done some of my own research and from what Ive found, and 
taking into account  all the circumstances, I dont think it likely that unsuitable  spark  plugs 
were supplied in the car.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I thought  the coolant leak was at least present or 
developing at the point of supply and that this made  the car of unsatisfactory quality  at the 
point of supply.  Ms F has asked if Hartwell should take the car back and that shed  be happy 
to pay for the usage she had of the car.
Ms F told us the coolant leak was no longer an issue with the car - this was remedied with 
the last repair in March 2018.  So I dont think its fair to ask Hartwell  to take the car back  as 
the issue was resolved  with the repairs.  
Ref: DRN48774035As there isnt enough evidence to show the spark plugs made the car of unsatisfactory  
quality at the point of supply, I think Hartwell only needs to refund the money paid in relation 
to the problems with the coolant  leak. Im not going  to direct it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Hartwell Finance  Limited to pay Ms F the following to settle  this complaint:
Refund the £372.60 incurred from having repairs done  in May 2017,  January 2018 
and March 2018*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
*Hartwell Finance  Limited should add 8% simple  interest per year to these payments from
the date Ms F paid them  until she gets them back.  If Hartwell Finance Limited thinks that its
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell
Ms F how much its taken  off. It should also give Ms F a tax deduction certificate if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4877403