K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  card in 2002 in store.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs C owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs C couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job until her unemployment or her disability 
ended or the outstanding amount was repaid. 
The heart of Mrs Cs complaint is that the PPI wasnt discussed with her and she wasnt 
aware it had been  added at the point of sale. And Mrs C has told us that no explanation of 
the PPI was given  to her  she was told where  her signature would be required  to secure the 
card and a ten percent discount  off her purchases  that day. Mrs C also says she had no 
need for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with this view so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment. I will explain my reasons why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs C was given  a fair choice about buying the 
PPI. FICL has been able to provide a copy of the credit agreement Mrs C signed when she 
took out her store card and the PPI. Theres a section on the paperwork about the PPI and 
Mrs C has signed this part of the form. Other parts of the form with options to take out other 
products have been crossed through  so overall, I think  its more  likely that Mrs C chose the 
insurance knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Theres nothing to make me think a tailored  recommendation was made for the PPI. That 
meant that FICL did not need to check it was suitable for Mrs C but it still had to give her 
enough clear information  so she could  decide  for herself whether or not to take out the PPI.
Its possible that not all the information  given to Mrs C was as clear  about the policy  as it 
should have been. But that isnt enough for me to uphold this complaint.
I next need to decide whether if Mrs C had clearer information she would  have changed her 
mind about  buying  the PPI. I cant say she would  have been put off buying  it.
Ref: DRN41813192I say that because clearer information  would  have shown her that she was eligible for the 
policy and as she was working and in good health she wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main exclusions  or limitations to the policy which might  have  made it difficult  for her to 
make a claim.
Mrs C says she had sick pay from her employer  around three  months but less than six 
months sick pay. But the PPI policy could have paid out 15% of the outstanding balance until 
she was able to return to work or until the balance was cleared  - so it was a good  benefit 
compared with other  similar policies at the time.  This would  be paid in addition  to, and would 
have lasted potentially  for longer than any sick pay she may have received. And it would 
have provided  cover  if she lost her job. So I still think the PPI could have been useful.
Theres nothing to make me think the cost of the policy was unaffordable.
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I think  its likely Mrs C chose the cover.  
So it looks  like she wanted this type of insurance.  I think the policy  could have been useful if 
something went wrong and I dont  think Mrs C would have been put off taking it out even 
with better  or clearer information. So I dont think Mrs C has lost out financially as a result of 
anything FICL may have  done wrong  and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4181319