K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale  Bank  plc sold him identical  life assurance policies that 
werent suitable for his needs.
Mr R is being represented by his wife. All comments and information  attributed  to Mr R will 
include information provided by Mrs R.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs R applied for a repayment mortgage with Clydesdale  for £150,000 to be 
repaid over a term of 20 years.  At the same time they were  referred  to a Clydesdale  financial 
adviser (the adviser) to discuss their protection  needs. Mr R said he and Mrs R were told by 
Clydesdale that a condition of the mortgage  was to take out protection policies. Both Mr and 
Mrs R were being advised in respect  of cover for their joint mortgage,  but only Mr R opted  for 
advice about life cover. 
A fact find was completed at the time of sale and this was followed by a Financial Plan (the 
plan) which was prepared on 27 September 2006 by the adviser following the first interview 
meeting with Mr and Mrs R held a day before. The plan set out the advisers  
recommendations.
According to the fact find, the objective  of the advice for both Mr and Mrs R was: to 
ensure that your Repayment Mortgage  of £150,000 could be fully repaid in the event that 
either of you should  die during the remaining  20 year term.
And that in terms of just Mr R: you wish to ensure that in the event of your death,  your 
family will be provided for, and have  peace of mind  of being able to continue to meet their 
financial commitments  and maintain their current quality of life. You would  like to have cover 
in place until your youngest  child, [R] is aged  21.
In line with these  objectives, the adviser recommended  that Mr R take out a Decreasing Tax 
Efficient Life Plan (decreasing term policy),  with an initial  sum assured of £150,000 over a 
term of 20 years to protect his mortgage  the monthly (net) premium over this period was 
just under £20. The same recommendation was made for Mrs R, but she subsequently 
chose not to follow the advice. It was noted at the time, that both level and decreasing term 
assurance was discussed  with Mr R and he acknowledged at the time, that he understood 
the difference between these types of policies.
It was also recommended that Mr R take out Personal  Life Protection (the life policy) with 
the amount of cover driven to match his (Mr Rs) desired budget  of £20 a month. The sum 
assured for this premium was £131,779. Mr R wanted to take out the life policy for a period 
of 12 years which provided cover until his youngest  child reached  the age of 21. 
Mr R signed an Authority  to Proceed on 6 October  2006 to confirm he wanted to go ahead  
with the recommendations and he opted to take out both policies.
After reviewing his policies in early  2018,  Mr R complained to Clydesdale about the two 
policies taken out in 2006. Mr R said hed been  sold identical policies and that when  he 
signed the paperwork in 2006,  he thought  he was just signing to acknowledge life cover was 
discussed. Mr R said hed been  misled by the Clydesdale  adviser. 
Ref: DRN42275462Clydesdale didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint as it didnt think the policies had been mis-sold to 
Mr R. It said the policies  served different purposes so werent identical. It also said as set out 
in the mortgage agreement, the policies werent  a requirement of the lending and that its 
recommendations were  suitable based on the information provided  to its adviser by Mr R at 
the time.  Unhappy with Clydesdales response, Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she didnt consider the 
policies sold in 2006 were identical and she also considered the recommendations were 
suitable for Mr Rs needs identified  at the time of sale. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. Amongst other things,  Mr R said because he 
has dyslexia he didnt  know  what he was signing  up for. So he asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Before I begin  my reasoning, I should point  out that Im very aware that Ive summarised this 
complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not 
going to respond  to every single point made by all the parties involved - no discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead Ive focused  on what I think are the key issues  here. Ill also 
mention at this stage  that where theres a dispute  about what happened  Ive based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, on what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the evidence.
I can see from the mortgage application that neither the decreasing and/ or life cover  was 
requirement the mortgage lending. This was confirmed in the declaration section which  was 
signed by Mr R on 2 August  2006.  I can also see from the plan prepared by the adviser that 
Mrs R didnt go ahead with the recommendation to take out mortgage  cover.  As both Mr and 
Mrs R were being advised at the same time in relation to their joint mortgage, I think  this 
would strongly suggest it was understood by them at the time, that they werent required to 
take out cover. And on balance, I consider that after carefully thinking about it, Mrs R chose 
not to go ahead with the cover,  whilst  Mr R chose to follow the advice.
 
M R says he was simply looking for a policy to cover his mortgage lending  in the event of his 
death. And I can see that mortgage cover was recommended for Mr R. I can also see the 
recommendation given to him was suitable for his repayment mortgage  the decreasing 
cover was based on the reducing amount owing and ended  at the same time as the 
mortgage. This type of policy is also designed  to keep  costs to a minimum, which  was also a 
stated objective  of Mr Rs. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied the decreasing term 
policy was suitable  for Mr Rs needs  and objectives.
But Mr R says he didnt say he also wanted  life cover and/ or that he wanted this in place 
until his youngest child reached  21  this was something attributed  to him in the plan 
prepared by the adviser. The first thing to say is that given the purpose of the cover  to 
provide protection in the event of his death  for his family  I think  the recommendation was 
suitable for his needs. Mr R had six children and his cover was set up to end at the point his 
youngest child reached 21. And that rather than to pay off the mortgage in the event of his 
death, this was designed to provide some protection for his children  to maintain their 
Ref: DRN42275463standard of living until they were old enough to provide for themselves. Given  their different 
purposes, I dont think the policies were identical.
I know Mr R says he didnt know that by signing the Authority to Proceed he would be 
agreeing to take out a life policy   he thought it was just to sign to say this had been 
discussed. But I see the authority signed  by Mr R said hed agreed with the 
recommendations set out in the plan and wished to proceed accordingly   he also confirmed 
that hed received, read and understood the key facts documents setting out details about 
the respective  policies.  
Further, the plan which set out the recommendations, was signed by the adviser on 27 
September 2006, a day after the meeting with Mr and Mrs R. Mr R signed the authority 
agreeing to proceed with the recommendations on 6 October 2006. And this was also the 
date he signed  the application forms setting up the relevant  policies. So Im satisfied Mr R 
was given time to review  what  he had been  told by the adviser and to consider whether he 
wanted to follow the recommendations set out in the plan.
 
Mr R says because he has dyslexia, this impaired his ability to read the documents he was 
given at the time. He said his wife, who was there  at the time of the advice and also signed 
the documents, was unwell so couldnt help him understand them. I appreciate  Mr Rs 
condition and personal circumstances mustve made matters  more difficult. But given the 
nature of the policies, I dont think its unreasonable to have expected him to have asked for 
some assistance either from a third party, or by contacting Clydesdale  if he was unsure 
about the information provided to him and what he was signing for. 
For all these reasons, whilst  I understand Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4227546