K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave incorrect advice 
regarding security of his account which  led to him failing to make a payment on time for a 
new rental agreement.  
background
Mr K has a current  account with NatWest.  On 27 July 2018  he called the bank to make two 
new payments of £700 for a deposit and £600 for advance rent as he was moving  house.  He 
had previously tried to make the payments online but was restricted to £250. Mr K said he 
needed to make the payments by 5.00pm in order to secure the property.
When he called the bank Mr K was taken through a number of security measures while  
setting up the new payments.  But Mr K said he answered one of the security  questions 
incorrectly and was eventually told he needed to verify his identity by taking identification into 
a local branch. Mr K did so the next day but said he was told by staff that this had been 
unnecessary and he shouldnt have needed to visit. 
Mr K said he is the full time carer for his wife so visiting the bank was difficult  as he needed 
to arrange for an emergency carer to visit. He said he had chosen this particular property to 
rent because of its close proximity to family and as a result of being unable  to make the 
payments he had lost it. He said he and his wife have had to move to another  property 
further away and would  need  to move again  in six months. He complained  to the bank. 
NatWest said Mr K was referred to the branch correctly. But it refunded  costs  for petrol and 
parking for the visit to the branch. Mr K wasnt satisfied and complained further. NatWest 
maintained that it had made no error with security but said that advice given by branch  staff 
was not correct. It gave  Mr K a further £132  in compensation, which  was awarded as a 
gesture of goodwill to cover the cost of the emergency carer. Mr K remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
The adjudicator thought  NatWest hadnt  made any errors with its security  advice  on the 
telephone and had dealt  with Mr Ks complaint fairly.  Mr K maintained his view that he had 
been treated unfairly and had suffered from the consequences. He said that despite the 
need for account protection some common sense should prevail and that just because he 
answered one security question wrong,  concerning his age at his next birthday, it was 
obvious he was the account holder. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has said in his response to the adjudicators view that he was aware, obviously, that a 
review by an ombudsman  would not change  the outcome.  So I would first like to reassure Mr 
K that my role is to provide an objective  analysis  of the evidence  which  is independent from 
the adjudicator.  Having  done so I am satisfied that NatWest hasnt done anything  wrong.  I 
realise this may come as a disappointment  to Mr K but I hope  the explanation  below  is 
helpful. 
Ref: DRN43010342I can see that this has been a difficult  time for Mr K and his family. Mr K has said he is the 
full time carer for his wife and was hoping to move  closer  to his immediate family so that they 
can help out. This hasnt  been possible because he lost the rental  property he and his wife 
were hoping to move  in to, as a result  of not being  able to make the payments in time.  He 
said theyve had to move into a more  expensive property  further  away which  will mean 
another move in six months. Im sorry to hear this and I fully understand this has been a 
frustrating and unpleasant time. 
Mr K said he answered one question not two incorrectly and that it was obvious he was the 
account holder.  I have  listened carefully to two phone calls in relation to this complaint. The 
first is when Mr K tried to make the payments  by telephone on 27 July. 
During this call, in order to complete  security  checks, the advisor  asked Mr K several 
questions about  payments  he may have made himself. Mr K responds that he cant  
remember if hed made payments or transferred money. The advisor  asked several times in 
different ways. She then put Mr K on hold for a few minutes. When she returned she asked if 
Mr K could confirm how old he would be on his next birthday. Mr K answered incorrectly.  
Having listened  to the advisor ask several questions about  payments that Mr K could not 
answer with any degree of certainty, and then answer the last question  wrong, Im satisfied 
Mr K answered more than one question incorrectly. In addition  the payments he was trying 
to make were large and to a new payee and so would be new account  activity. So I find it 
reasonable the bank would take extra  care. I dont  agree with Mr K that it was obvious he 
was the account holder. Nor would it be reasonable to expect the operator on the phone to 
use common sense to allow Mr K to pass a security  check  when he had been unclear about  
his own account  activity followed by an incorrect answer.
Mr K said he was told to go to the branch  to verify  his identity before he would be able to 
make the payment, but when  he went to branch was told this wasnt  necessary. He said the 
advisor told him he had already passed the on-line banking security  to try and make the 
payment and that the on-line security  was more vigorous  than the telephone banking.  He 
also said he was told by the branch that the telephone banking  advisor  would know that he 
had already passed online security. 
Its not my role to look at the banks  processes,  thats the role of the financial conduct 
authority. So I cant comment on NatWests security procedure. I can only look at whether it 
has been applied  fairly. Ive listened to the call on 16 October when NatWest called Mr K 
regarding the goodwill  gesture. During this call the complaint  advisor (CA) clarified the 
process of identification  very clearly. He explained  the telephone security  process  is different  
to the online  security process and the one for the branch. Ive no reason to doubt this is the 
case. Detailed contact  notes were not available from Mr Ks visit to the branch that may have 
explained what Mr K was advised. So its possible he was given incorrect information. 
It seems  to me that following the call on 27 July, where Im satisfied Mr Ks identity could not 
be confirmed, it was reasonable Mr K was asked to take identification to the branch. The 
bank has a duty of care as well as legal obligations to protect its customers, and itself,  from 
fraudulent activity. And while  it wasnt helpful for the branch to give Mr K incorrect  advice it 
has not impacted  the outcome of the missed payment. 
Mr K has said the failure to make the payments  in time has had caused a dramatic  change in 
lifestyle. Im very sorry to hear that. While I understand Mr K missed  the payment deadline I 
cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for him losing the rental  property. I consider the bank 
Ref: DRN43010343took reasonable precautions to verify  Mr Ks identity. In addition Mr K himself has said he 
wouldve made the deposit a lot sooner but didnt  have the funds available. It would be unfair  
of me to hold NatWest  responsible for Mr K not having funds available sooner, and so not 
being able to make the payment sooner, as this was not within  the banks control.  
When NatWest called Mr K on 16 October  Mr K said the CA told him not to bother to 
complain to the ombudsman, that he was wasting his time. Complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity so its not my role to investigate that. But in the course of listening to the 
call from 16 October  I did hear what the CA said to Mr K about a complaint to this service. 
The CA did not tell Mr K not to complain  to the ombudsman  nor did he tell Mr K that he 
would be wasting his time. He appeared to try to manage Mr Ks expectations in what  
outcome he might expect.  The CA also went on to tell Mr K that if he were to accept  the 
goodwill payments this would have no effect  on any complaint he might make  to this service. 
I realise this is not the news Mr K was hoping for but Im satisfied NatWest  hasnt done 
anything wrong  so I wont be asking it to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4301034