K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc (Barclays) treated him unfairly in connection with 
the closure of its Pension Trader Account (PTA) service. 
background to this complaint
Mr H used Barclays PTA service to manage his portfolio of investments for his Self Invested 
Personal Pensions (SIPP).
On 26 May 2017 Barclays wrote  to Mr H to explain that it had carried  out a review of the 
products and services  it offered and, as a result, had decided  to close its PTA service for 
SIPPs. The letter listed two options for Mr H to consider (transfer  or sell his investments) and 
requested that he confirm  his instruction by 28 July 2017 (the deadline). The letter  
highlighted that Mr Hs urgent action was required before the deadline.
Mr H didnt respond initially.  Barclays wrote  to him again on 30 June 2017 to request  his 
instruction but none was received. As no instruction  was received, Barclays wrote  again on 
15 August 2017  to confirm it had closed its PTA service.
On 22 August 2017 Barclays  received  an instruction from a third party firm (letter  dated               
16 August 2017) to transfer Mr Hs portfolio in-specie to a new provider.  This transfer  was 
completed by Barclays about  seven weeks later on 10 October 2017. 
Mr H complained about Barclays actions in explaining and closing its PTA service. He said, 
in summary, that:
1.Barclays had given  him insufficient time to consider  his options and make a decision 
before the deadline; 
2.Barclays letters were unclear about how he could manage his investments in the 
PTA during  the period leading up to the deadline and the period waiting for the                
in-specie transfer  to the new provider  he says it wasnt clear if he could buy or sell 
investments during  these periods; and 
3.After it had received  the instruction in mid-August 2017, Barclays  was responsible  for 
an undue  delay  in completing the in-specie transfer to the new provider by                    
10 October 2017.
Mr H said all of these issues led to him holding onto some shares  longer  than he otherwise 
would have, causing him to suffer a financial loss of about £3,500.  To be put things right, he 
requested Barclays pay him adequate compensation to reflect this loss.
Barclays took about five months  to issue its formal response to Mr Hs complaint. It didnt 
uphold the complaint, but credited Mr Hs bank account with £100 compensation to reflect  
the inconvenience he had suffered when it closed its PTA service  and the time it had taken 
to respond to the complaint. Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome.
One of our adjudicators looked  into his complaint  and concluded, in summary,  the following:
Barclays was entitled to make a commercial decision  to close its PTA service;
Ref: DRN46274082In line with the terms and conditions agreed  with Mr H at the outset,  Barclays  
provided sufficient notice of its intention to close its PTA service;
Barclays communications to Mr H were clear  about the reason it had decided to 
close its PTA service, the options available to him and the deadline  by which  he had 
to confirm his instruction; 
Barclays had clearly  explained to Mr H that while investments couldnt be managed  
online, he could  still transfer or sell at any time by phone  or in writing   therefore, if 
Mr H had wanted to sell particular shares as he had asserted, he was always  able to 
do this;
The timescale of about seven weeks to complete the in-specie transfer to the new 
provider wasnt unreasonable; and
Barclays hadnt done anything substantially wrong, so its offer of £100 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H didnt accept our adjudicators findings.  He repeated his previous comments  about 
Barclays communications being unclear  and that the time taken to close the PTA service 
and complete the in-specie transfer  to the new provider wasnt reasonable. 
Since agreement couldnt  be reached, this complaint  has been  referred  to me to issue a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator and for much the same reasons.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards, and codes of practice; and where  
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he understood he wasnt able to sell some  shares held 
within the PTA during the period until the in-specie transfer was completed. The period 
during which  Barclays  closed its PTA service coincided with the shares in question  falling  in 
value significantly.  Its clear that Mr H is upset  by the situation and that he thinks  Barclays 
treated him unfairly, resulting in the financial loss of £3,500 he says hes suffered.
In my view, Barclays didnt make an error or treat Mr H unfairly. Let me explain why.
Barclays decision to close its PTA service
Its important to note that Barclays  was entitled  at any time  to make a commercial 
decision to close its PTA service. So what Id expect  to see in a situation  like this is evidence  
that Barclays treated  Mr H fairly by giving him enough notice of its intention to close  its PTA 
service  and that it made him sufficiently aware of his options. Ive reviewed the terms and 
conditions applicable to Barclays PTA service.  These confirm  that Barclays could change or 
close its PTA service at any time provided  that it gave 30 calendar  days  notice. Mr H agreed 
to these terms at the outset.
Ref: DRN46274083Did Barclays give Mr H sufficient notice?
Now that Ive established the terms under which Barclays was able to close  its PTA service,  
Ive reviewed the relevant letters it sent to Mr H in connection with this. In its letter  of                   
26 May 2017, Barclays stated:
We recently carried out a review of the products and services we offer and as part of 
that review we have  taken  the decision to no longer support our Pension  Trading  
Account (PTA)  service  for Self Invested Pension  Plans (SIPPs). As we are closing 
this service, this will also mean we will be closing  your account. Please accept our 
apologies for any inconvenience this may cause
The current service will close  at 6.00pm on Friday 28 July 2017. After  that date, 
well begin closure of the service for your account.  This means  you will no longer be 
able to purchase but may still be able to sell or transfer holdings. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that Barclays provided, in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions, Mr H at least 30 calendar  days notice that it intended to close its PTA service on              
28 July 2017.  
Did Barclays make it adequately clear to Mr H that he could sell his investments?
With regard to the two options available to Mr H, Barclays  letter  of 26 May 2017 stated:
Option 1 -Transfer the holding(s) to an alternative investment provider who can 
support all the assets you currently  or may wish to hold.  Please  ask the alternative 
provider and your existing pension provider to contact  us with the appropriate 
transfer instructions  as quickly  as possible.  You should also confirm with the 
alternative provider  that they can support your holding(s) inside  a pension.
Option 2- Sell the holding(s) and have the sales proceeds,  along  with any cash 
already held in the SIPP,  transferred in Sterling value to the main SIPP account for 
you to use or invest elsewhere.  This can be done over the phone or by written 
instruction.
Whichever option you choose, we will waive our closure  and transfer fees and will not 
charge dealing commission where this may normally be applied.
Please note that we can only accept a sale instruction from you. A closure or cash  
withdrawal instruction must come from the pension provider  for the SIPP. The 
instruction must be signed by two authorised individuals from the providers  
organisation. If a current authorised signatory list can also be supplied, this will 
facilitate any instruction we receive...
And its letter of 30 June 2017  stated:
You can still sell or transfer assets but no other  purchases other than those  
required by regulation will be made
Ref: DRN46274084Finally, its letter of 15 August 2017 stated:
You can now only transfer investments, or sell them
Mr H doesnt deny  receiving these letters from Barclays. Therefore, based on the content of 
these letters, Im satisfied  Barclays made  it repeatedly and adequately clear to Mr H from at 
least 26 May 2017 onwards that he could  sell or transfer any of his existing investments  
including the shares at the centre of his complaint  at any time, albeit not online. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Barclays misled  Mr H into believing  he couldnt sell or 
transfer any of his investments.
Had Mr H been unsure about his options  when he received notification the PTA service  was 
closing, he had the opportunity to seek clarification from Barclays, but theres  no evidence 
that he did. It appears he instead  chose to find a new provider which then made  the                     
in-specie transfer request  to Barclays on his behalf  in August 2017.
Was Barclays responsible  for a delay in carrying out the in-specie transfer?
Mr H says Barclays took too long to transfer his investments  to his new chosen provider. I 
note that Barclays  wrote initially about  the closure  of the service on 26 May 2017.  However,  
despite sending  Mr H two further letters, it wasnt until 22 August  2017 that Barclays 
received a response in the form of an in-specie transfer request from his new provider. The 
transfer was completed  by 10 October 2017. I consider a seven  week turnaround to be 
reasonable for this type of transaction.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs concerns that he lost investment  opportunities, but I havent 
seen any evidence to show  that he lost out as a result of the process of transferring to the 
new provider.
Conclusion
Mr H is clearly disappointed that he didnt sell the shares at the centre of this complaint 
before they fell in value. I do understand his frustration and upset about the financial loss 
suffered. But  based on the evidence available to me  I cant find that Barclays is 
responsible for this loss, has done  anything  wrong  or treated Mr H unfairly. I think Barclays  
did all that could be reasonably expected of it in the circumstances once it had decided,  as it 
was entitled, to close its PTA service.
Barclays previously credited Mr Hs bank account with £100 compensation. I consider this to 
be a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. So I dont consider it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to require Barclays to pay additional compensation to Mr H, as hes 
requested.
Ref: DRN46274085my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  Plcs previous compensation payment of £100  to Mr H is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I make no further award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my final decision before 11 May 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627408