K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that a payment they sent from their account with National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt reach  the beneficiary bank which  was overseas. The 
money was returned  but it was less than what they sent.
Background
Mr and Mrs P wanted to send some  money to a bank in another country from their account  
with NatWest. They visited a branch  of NatWest to do this. The transfer  couldnt  be made in 
the currency of that country so was sent in euros instead. A sum of £431.86  was deducted 
from their account to send  €430 and to pay the related charges for the service of £22 and 
£12.50.
But, a week later the payment was returned to Mr and Mrs Ps account but only £332.09 was 
credited. 
NatWest had used  a correspondent  bank to transfer  the money onto the beneficiary bank, 
but the correspondent bank rejected the payment and deducted a fee of €50 as a charge. 
This fee, as well as differences  in the exchange rate for converting the money back into 
sterling, meant Mr and Mrs P got back less.
NatWest said that the terms  and conditions of using its transfer service said what would 
happen if a payment was returned and also that it didnt accept liability  for any loss outside  
of its control.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He was 
satisfied the €50 charge for returning the payment was beyond  NatWests control, and 
thought the correct exchange rates had been used for the transactions.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept the adjudicators findings  and asked  for the complaint to be 
reviewed. They said they hadnt been  told that NatWest wouldnt accept liability for a loss 
like this when they went to the branch to make the transfer. They werent  given an 
alternative way to make it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling that they were misadvised about how this 
payment would be made, and that they werent  made aware that there was the possibility 
that further charges may be deducted if the transfer  they wanted to make didnt go through.  I 
understand that they havent  been able to make the payment  using an alternative method. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said that they did attempt to make a test payment but this too was 
returned.
NatWest has told us how a payment to a foreign bank such  as this is routed through  a 
system used  by banks  to make international payments. Here, the payment was automatically 
routed through a correspondent bank for onward transfer to the beneficiary bank. This is 
because NatWest doesnt have a direct  banking relationship with the beneficiary bank.
Ref: DRN40119012Ive looked at the payment details  that NatWest used and these  match those given by the 
company Mr and Mrs P wanted  to send the money  to, and I understand Mr and Mrs P will 
have verified them  at the time they were giving NatWest the instruction. But the payment 
was returned by the correspondent bank which said this was because of policy reasons and 
advised direct contact with the beneficiary bank.
Unfortunately, NatWest has been  unable to get any clearer explanation of these reasons 
from the correspondent bank, despite asking for this. But the correspondent bank deducted 
a charge of €50 for returning the payment.
NatWest has referred to its terms and conditions  for its transfer service. These say:
6. If a Payment is returned, it will be re-credited to the originating Account. If the Payment is 
returned in a different currency from the currency of the Account, it will be converted at the 
exchange rate applicable  at the date and time it is credited to the Account. This means  that 
the Payment to the Account may be more or less than the original debit.
7. The Bank  does not accept liability for any loss arising from any cause beyond the Banks 
control or for any delay in transit or for any failure in the Payment reaching the intended 
Beneficiarys account, unless such delay or failure  is caused  by the negligence or wilful 
default of the Bank.
I fully appreciate the situation here  Mr and Mrs P simply wanted  to make a payment to an 
overseas beneficiary  and use their account  with NatWest to do this. But I dont think  it was a 
fault or error  by NatWest  that led to the transfer not being successful. The system  it used  
was an automatic one, routing the payment through a correspondent bank for onward 
transfer. It wasnt that NatWest chose  this particular bank to use, or that it could be said to 
act as its agent for transfers such as this, when a payment  system  is used for carrying out 
such a transfer. And theres nothing to suggest NatWest ought  to have known beforehand 
that the correspondent bank wouldnt carry out the instruction. So I think the actions of the 
correspondent bank in not making the onward transfer, or in deducting its own charge, were  
outside of the control of NatWest in the particular circumstances here.
Mr and Mrs P were  unable to make a successful payment to the beneficiary, despite  trying 
another method to do this, which suggests  to me that the transfer  may not have gone 
through even  if NatWest  had given Mr and Mrs P an alternative  way or used a different 
correspondent bank to try and make the payment.
The difference in the amount Mr and Mrs P received back  into their account was in part due 
to the difference in exchange  rates  at the times, and partly  because of the upfront charges 
and the €50 charge imposed by the correspondent bank.
NatWest looked  to provide the transfer  service to Mr and Mrs P and the upfront charges 
were to cover the cost of this. I dont  think the reasons why the payment didnt go through  
were because of something  that NatWest did wrongly or unfairly. 
Taking everything into account,  and although  I appreciate that this will be a disappointment 
for Mr and Mrs P, I dont  think NatWest  should  be required to refund the £99.77 difference  in 
the payment returned to Mr and Mrs P.
Ref: DRN40119013My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4011901