K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the poor service he got from CIS General Insurance Limited when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy after an accident.
background
Mr T told us he didnt  accept his car should  be written-off or the valuation CIS offered him for 
it in June 2018. He said there was a problem with a payment of £60 towards a hire car, and 
that CIS hadnt  paid him £75 (as it had claimed)  for not collecting the hire car on time.  Mr T 
said there was other poor service, including a problem with CISs  advisor  M). He said the 
claim was taking too long to resolve, whilst hed continued to pay the premium.   
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ts complaint. He thought CIS had acted reasonably in 
making the total loss decision and in its offer for the car. He said it had agreed  to reissue the 
£75 cheque. He thought there had been  confusion about the £60 Mr T had paid and noted 
that the car hire firm had agreed  to refund it. He didnt find any evidence  that advisor  M had 
done anything  wrong. He thought the time taken  to resolve the claim was due to the 
disagreement about the car being written-off. And he said Mr T would get a refund of the 
premium payments hed made from CIS when the claim was finalised. 
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators view. He said hed wanted  a cancellation and a refund of 
premium as soon as his car was disabled. He said CIS had never explained what the sums 
quoted in its total loss offer meant.  He said hed had to argue about  having paid the £60, but 
was able to prove that hed done so. He said at the start of the claim CIS hadnt collected  the 
car for assessment and hed had to take it to the garage.   
The investigator clarified several issues with CIS. It said the claim  was still open as Mr T still 
hadnt said whether  he was going to accept the total loss offer or withdraw the claim. It said 
although the policy was now cancelled, as Mr T still had the car it couldnt refund the 
premium until it had proof of the date the car was sold or scrapped. Mr T said hed decided 
that there  were two main issues for us to consider. The first was the damage  done to his car. 
The second  was the reimbursement of all his premiums.
As there was no agreement, Mr Ts complaint was passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear  from the correspondence and all the calls between Mr T and CIS that there 
was a good deal of confusion between them over several issues, almost  from the start of the 
claims-handling process. I can only base  my decision on a review of the available evidence. 
Mr T thinks CIS has tampered with the call recordings, but as theres  no evidence of that, I 
have to assume theyre a true reflection of the conversations  that took place. 
total loss decision  / valuation
The first advisor Mr T spoke to after the accident  asked him about  the damage  to the car and 
entered the details into CISs  computer  program.  Based  on what  Mr T had said,  plus the age 
of his car, the program  predicted that it would  be written-off. Thats because the cost of 
Ref: DRN40867212repairing it was likely  to be high compared  to the cars value. I dont think its unreasonable 
for an insurer to give a consumer an idea of what is likely to be the outcome. The advisor 
told Mr T the car would be assessed  before an engineer made  a decision, and thats what  
happened. The engineering evidence shows that the cost of repairs to Mr Ts car exceeded 
its value. So CIS wasnt  prepared to repair it. I think that decision was reasonable.
I can see from the file that the engineer looked  at the valuations set out in three national  
trade guides before deciding what to offer Mr T for his car. He offered him the highest  
valuation. We think using  the trade guide  valuations is the fairest  way to establish a cars 
pre-accident market value. And we checked that the figures CIS got from the guides were 
correct. Mr T hasnt  provided anything to show that the valuation was wrong.
Mr T told CIS the total loss process  wasnt explained to him properly.  He said the offer he 
got for his car - once  the policy excess was deducted - was £1,340. He said he wasnt told 
that if he chose  to retain the car and have it repaired himself, £524  would  be deducted for 
the salvage. CIS checked the call in which the settlement figures were discussed with him.
Ive also listened  to it, and the call shows that the advisor explained all the figures  to Mr T. 
He also told him he could withdraw  the claim. Mr T seemed to be shocked by the potential  
salvage deduction. The advisor  went through the figures again, but nothing was agreed  
during the call, as Mr T needed time to think about it.
I dont think Mr T can show that CIS acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with the total loss 
process or the valuation of his car. From later calls, it seems  Mr T thought when CIS insisted 
that it had given all the relevant information to him, it was accusing him of lying.  I dont think  
thats the case. CISs advisors suggested that there  may have been  some confusion on his 
part, or that he might have written something  down incorrectly during or after some of the 
calls. I think that seems more likely than not, given the content of the calls.  
£60 charge      
Mr T had cover  on his policy for an enhanced courtesy car for 14 days. The car was 
provided by a hire firm. It seems  the hire firm offered cover for any damage that may be 
done to its car for £60. Mr T thought the sum was taken by CIS on behalf of the hire firm. I 
think the calls show that isnt the case.  There was further confusion  about whether the sum 
was refundable  or not if there was no damage to the hire car. Mr T said CIS told him initially  
when it took the payment that the sum would be refundable  yet he was then told it wasnt.  
CIS insisted  that none of its advisors would have spoken to Mr T about the cover for the hire 
car, as that was an issue for the hire firm to discuss and arrange.  Theres no record of a 
discussion between a CIS advisor  and Mr T in which the cover was arranged.  But in one call, 
a CIS advisor checked with the hire firm, which confirmed Mr T had paid it the £60. 
Later on, CISs advisors told Mr T they thought the sum wouldnt be refundable. It seems he 
thought they were lying - or were suggesting  he was lying about what  theyd  said and done 
previously. I can see why Mr T would have  been upset if thats what he believed. But theres  
nothing to show that CIS had any involvement in the cover offered by the hire firm. In the 
end, the hire firm refunded the £60. From  the calls,  it seems Mr T took that to mean that 
when CIS advisors  told him the sum probably  wasnt refundable they hadnt told him the 
truth. CIS thought  the hire firm refunded the money as a gesture of goodwill. That seems 
more likely than not to me. Mr T had the benefit of the £60 policy whilst using the hire car, so 
it wasnt likely to be refunded. I dont think hes shown that CIS acted unreasonably in 
relation to this issue.   
Ref: DRN40867213collection of hire car
I think the collection of the hire car was always going to be done by the hire firm, as it owned 
the car. But the calls show that there  was confusion about it. That seems to have  stemmed 
from the fact that initially a salvage firm was going  to collect  Mr Ts car to inspect the 
damage to it before a decision was made about  whether  it was a total loss. But that 
arrangement was changed, due to confusion over collection times. In the end it seems CIS 
and Mr T agreed that hed take the car to a nearby garage for review. 
Mr T says CIS told him the salvage  agent would collect the hire car. I cant see anything in 
the file about that, and I dont think its something  a hire firm would have agreed to. Theres 
no reference to it in the calls. They show that when Mr T called CIS to say the hire firm 
wanted to take the hire car back,  CIS confirmed that he should release it. Further confusion 
arose, as the advisor then said the salvage firm would be collecting Mr Ts car. But the 
assessment had already been  done  by the garage. Mr T told the advisor his car was going  to 
be repaired, although that hadnt  yet been agreed  with CIS. The advisor  then cancelled  the 
collection - but I can see why Mr T would have  been  alarmed at the time by the prospect of 
his car being  taken  to a salvage  yard.
CIS accepted that the delay in the hire cars  collection had caused Mr T stress  and 
inconvenience. It also noted that the salvage firm had called Mr T at 6.30am about collecting 
his car. It offered him £75 compensation,  which I think  was fair.   
payment of £75 compensation
CIS recently  sent a cheque for £75 to Mr T, as he said it hadnt issued one in 2018. CIS 
insisted that it had  and the cheque could have  been lost in transit  in 2018. But in the initial  
correspondence Mr T sent us, he enclosed a copy of a letter sent to him from CIS dated  
9 August 2018.  That letter referred  to the cheque for £75 that was enclosed.  Mr T wrote on 
the letter that hed returned the cheque to CIS, as he thought  it was a bribe. So Mr Ts 
recollection of what happened  isnt correct,  and CIS wasnt at fault.  
advisor M
In her first call with Mr T, advisor M said shed contact him the next morning. She said shed 
be in the office  from 9.30am, but instantly corrected that to 9am. She didnt say shed  call 
him at 9.30am. Mr T argued  with her about what shed  promised to do when she rang him 
later that morning. He was upset about the issue as he was convinced  that shed broken a 
promise and wouldnt admit it. When advisor M maintained  her stance, he asked if she was 
accusing him of lying. I dont think that was reasonable, as they simply had different 
recollections about what was said. 9.30am was very briefly mentioned  (although not as a call 
back time). But the call recording shows that advisor M didnt break  a promise to Mr T, so I 
dont think he can show she did anything wrong.
time taken  
The claim has been ongoing since May 2018. It could have been resolved in June  2018,  as 
by then CIS had valued the car and would have  paid Mr T for it. But Mr T wasnt happy with 
that. The file shows  that he hoped to be able to convince CISs engineer that the valuation  
should be increased. I think that issue,  plus the decision about whether Mr T would accept a 
Ref: DRN40867214lower offer from CIS if he kept the car (or would withdraw his claim) dragged the process  out. 
So I dont  think CIS is at fault for the time taken  to deal with the claim.
premium refund 
Mr T told us hed wanted the policy to be cancelled as soon as the car was damaged. CIS 
told him in August 2018 that as he still had the car, it had to be insured. It could have  been  
stolen or further  damaged  and without insurance, such  events wouldnt have been 
covered. The policy  was cancelled in May 2019 as a premium payment was missed  and not 
paid by other means by Mr T. He then asked for all the premium payments hed made to be 
returned to him. Mr T says CIS said previously  it would do that when the claim was finalised.  
But in July 2019 CIS told us that it wouldnt refund the premium  payments until Mr T could  
show that the car had been  scrapped  or sold on. 
As Mr T had said he intended  to do neither,  we asked  CIS to clarify its position.  First of all it 
confirmed that it was willing to provide a refund. Secondly it said that it would only refund the 
payments from the date Mr T no longer had the use of his car  the date he sold it or had it 
scrapped. Thats because whilst he still had the car he had the benefit of the insurance  
cover. Mr T told us hed taken the car off the road,  so he wasnt using it. CIS said if Mr T 
could show that the car was off the road, it would backdate the premium  to the date that 
happened. I think thats reasonable.   
I dont think Mr Ts shown  that CIS acted unreasonably in the way it has dealt with his claim, 
so I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4086721