K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr T applied  for two credit cards in April 1997. Lloyds cant  say when PPI was added  to      
Mr Ts account   but it wouldve been between 1997 and February  2000.  
Mr T says he had very good  sick pay and so didnt need the PPI. He says if Lloyds had 
made it clear  the cover was optional, he wouldve declined it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ts complaint  didnt uphold it. Mr T disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr T he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. Lloyds says its more  likely  than not it did this. But it hasnt got any paperwork or other 
records from the time to show  how it did so. And Mr T doesnt remember  much about the 
sale. 
Where, as in this case, Ive got very little information  from the time of the sale (which isnt 
unusual or surprising when it was a long time ago),  I have to think  about whats most  likely to 
have happened, based on that information and also on what we know  about Lloyds usual 
process for selling PPI in this period. And Lloyds has shown us a sample  credit  card 
agreement where  its clear a consumer  would actively have had to agree to the PPI. 
To uphold  Mr Ts complaint on this point Id have to think its more likely  than not Lloyds 
didnt make it clear to Mr T he had a choice about  PPI. And the information Ive got  
essentially, Mr Ts testimony  isnt strong  enough  on its own and without  anything  else to 
back it up for me to think thats a fair and reasonable conclusion.  
On balance, looking at the limited information  Ive got, I think its more  likely  Mr T agreed to 
the PPI at time, knowing  he had a choice about  it, and thats the reason it was added  to his 
account.
Lloyds has treated the sale of Mr Ts PPI as if it recommended it to him. So Lloyds needed to 
make sure it was right for him in his circumstances. From what  Ive seen of Lloyds PPI 
policies sold between 1997 and 2000,  and from the information Ive got from Mr T about his 
circumstances around this time, I think it was. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr T wouldnt  have been  eligible for the 
PPI. I also havent  seen anything to make  me think Mr T wouldve been  affected by 
any significant exclusions or limitations  the policy he bought  might have had  for 
example, for known  medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. So I 
Ref: DRN46262922dont think its likely  there wouldve been  anything to stop him claiming the full policy 
benefit had he needed to.
Mr T says he got very good sick pay. But I think the PPI could still have given him a 
useful benefit  if he couldnt work, since it wouldve helped  with his card repayments 
for up to 12 months for each successful  claim he made  which  is longer than his full 
sick pay wouldve lasted. It would also have  paid out on top of his sick pay and 
wouldve covered  him in the same way if hed lost his job.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr T couldnt afford  the cover or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure it was right for him, Lloyds  also had to give Mr T enough clear  
information about the PPI for him to make  an informed decision about whether he wanted to 
buy it. I think its likely Lloyds didnt make some  things as clear as it shouldve  like the true 
cost and benefits of the policy and the things  it didnt cover.  But, as Ive said, I think its likely        
Mr T agreed  to the cover knowing he had a choice about it and I havent seen anything to 
make me think it wasnt right for him in his circumstances. I think  clearer information from 
Lloyds would only have  confirmed this to Mr T and wouldnt have made him change his 
decision. So I dont  think Mr T has lost out because of anything Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626292