K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that a used car she acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd isnt of satisfactory  quality. She would like Blue Motor to cover the costs 
of the repairs.
background
In March 2018 Miss G acquired a used car via five year hire purchase agreement. The car 
was around five years old and had a mileage of 40,000.
In August  2018  the car had a problem with overheating and was fitted with a new water  
pump and thermostat. Miss G says she was told to run the car and see if there were any 
further issues. In September 2018  Miss G says the car was still overheating and this was 
raised with the garage but no repairs were  undertaken.
In November 2018 the car began to seriously overheat  and there was fluid leaking from the 
coolant reservoir together with a burning smell. Miss G managed to get the car to the 
garage. Miss G says that the garage  told her that the car had deep seated corrosion and 
needed a new head gasket and various  other repairs to the engine caused by the 
overheating. Miss G has supplied photos of the engine and the repair invoices.
Miss G says she spoke to the dealership  that had supplied the car about  wanting  the work 
done elsewhere as she had lost faith in them. She says they offered her a cheque for £400  
to go towards getting the repairs but havent actually paid this sum.
Miss G arranged  for the garage to do the repairs. She was without  her car for three weeks 
while the work was done and rented a car in that period.
Miss G complained to Blue Motor about the quality  of the car. Blue Motor didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said that the fault with the car had arisen after more  than six months from 
inception of the agreement and it was for Miss G to show that the problem had been  present 
at the point of sale.
Miss G disagreed with Blue Motors decision and complained  to this service. She said the 
car required further repairs to a cylinder and pumps  and these were  due to damage caused 
by the car overheating.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld.  He said that as 
the car wasnt new issues would be expected with wear and tear over time but he didnt think 
a reasonable person would expect  issues so soon with the head gasket when taking into 
account the cars age and mileage. He said he thought the issue  with the head  gasket had 
been present  or developing at the point of sale and the car wasnt reasonably  durable.
Our investigator said in light of the evidence Miss G had produced he didnt think  it was fair 
to ask her to provide anything more such as an independent report. He said it would be fair 
for Blue Motor to cover  the costs of the repairs Miss G had already paid for and cover  the 
costs of the repairs that were still outstanding plus any out of pocket expenses  shed 
incurred upon  presentation of receipts.
Blue Motor  disagreed with our investigators  view. It said that the repairs  in August 2018 had 
been to the water pump and thermostat  and Miss G had gone on to drive the car for 3000  
miles in the following four months after these repairs. The head gasket fault had been 
Ref: DRN49054932reported nine months  into the agreement and if there had been an issue  with this part as 
from the point of sale then it would have  shown up earlier. Blue Motor also said that it 
wouldve expected  the head  gasket problem to have  been picked up at the earlier repairs  if it 
had been present.
Blue Motor  said Miss G had been  able to drive  the car for a total of 6,500 miles since shed 
acquired it and that indicated  the car was working.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be of satisfactory quality  at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time. Here the car was five years  old with a mileage of 40,000.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject  the 
car. And where a car is supplied under a finance agreement then its the finance company, 
in this case Blue Motor,  who is responsible for dealing with the fault.
Blue Motor  says that the faults  were unrelated. The first fault in August was with the water 
pump and thermostat and that once these were  repaired then the car was fully useable. It 
says the fault with the head gasket arose  some  months later and couldnt have been 
present at the point of sale as Miss G had been  able to drive for 3000 miles in that time.
But I disagree; the car had an issue with overheating within  a short  time of Miss G acquiring 
it. She has produced  the invoices for those repairs although one invoice has wrongly 
recorded her postcode  for the cars  registration  number.  Blue Motor  has accepted those 
repairs were undertaken.  And Im aware that overheating can either be symptom  of a head 
gasket failing or can result in its failure. So I think that its more likely than not that the 
overheating and the head gasket  failure  was linked.  
I also dont think that a reasonable person wouldve considered the car as durable. I 
appreciate Miss G was able to drive the car for 3,000 miles following the first repairs  but this 
wasnt an excessive mileage and head gaskets would be expected to last for many more 
miles than 46,000 before they needed replacing.  So I dont think  this repair  is one a 
reasonable person wouldve anticipated would arise  taking into account the age and 
mileage of the car.  
I appreciate that under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 that if a fault is found six months after 
the start of an agreement  then the onus  lies on the consumer to prove it was present or 
developing at the point of sale. But here I think its fair to say that the fault was discovered 
prior to the car breaking down in November 2018. Blue Motor says it hasnt  had an 
opportunity to inspect  the car but I dont think that would  now be helpful in light of the repairs  
Ref: DRN49054933that have already taken place as the head gasket  and other  parts have already been 
replaced. 
Blue Motor  also says it wasnt fair that Miss G didnt permit either it or the dealership to look 
at the car before the repairs were undertaken. However, Miss G says she spoke with the 
dealership about using  another garage. I havent seen any evidence  that contradicts  what 
Miss G says so I think she raised  it with the dealership first. Ive seen an email from Miss G 
to the dealership asking where  the promised £400 cheque  was. I dont know why this was 
offered and then not paid.
So Im satisfied on the evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale 
and Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. To resolve  this complaint Miss G has asked that the 
car be fixed and the costs  shes already  paid out on repairs to be reimbursed. I think this 
would be fair and reasonable resolution  so Im asking Blue Motor  to do the following:
Reimburse Miss G for the costs of the repairs already undertaken together with 
interest. Miss G has already produced the invoices.
Reimburse Miss G the costs of renting  a car during the period the car was being 
repaired. Miss G will need to provide invoices for that expenditure before that 
reimbursement can be made.
Cover the costs of the outstanding repairs to the cylinder and two pumps that were 
damaged by the overheating  of the car.
Miss G has asked  that her payments under the agreement  should be reimbursed but as she 
has been able to use the car and will be reimbursed the rental costs (once invoices have 
been provided) I dont  think  that is reasonable. Miss G always  expected  to have travel costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Gs complaint. Im asking Blue Motor 
Limited to resolve  this complaint  by doing the following:
Reimburse Miss G for the costs of the repairs already undertaken together with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. Miss G has already  produced the invoices.
Reimburse Miss G the costs of renting  a car during the period the car was being 
repaired. Interest  is to be added to those  payments at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement. Miss G will need to provide 
invoices for that expenditure before that reimbursement  can be made.
Cover the costs of the outstanding repairs to the cylinder and two pumps that were 
damaged by overheating of the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4905493