K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wouldnt send an engineer 
to repair  her boiler when  it broke down. 
background
Mrs M has a home insurance  policy  provided by RSA  which  includes optional  cover for 
home emergencies. 
On 30 November 2018 Mrs Ms boiler broke  down leaving her and her family,  which  included  
a very young  child, with no heating or hot water. She contacted  RSA on 3 December to get it 
fixed.
Mrs Ms husband (Mr S) spoke to RSAs claims handlers. He was asked how old the boiler 
was and he said it was probably  20 years old as their house had been built in 1999 and 
they had lived in it for 14 years. He was told that the policy excluded the repair of boilers that 
were more than 15 years  old. Mrs M had to call in another  plumber, who fitted a new boiler  
at a cost of £1,680. Mrs M wants RSA to reimburse  her for this.
Mrs M has said that they had been opted in to home emergency  cover by RSA and only 
had a two page document  explaining  it.
According to RSA, Mrs M took out her home  insurance policy online. As part of that process,  
various options for additional cover were  offered, such as Legal Expenses  cover, Pedal 
Cycle cover, Student Cover and Home  Emergency  cover.  Mrs Ms policy  schedule  shows 
that she paid an additional premium to include home  emergency cover. Information about 
what that covered  was available online.
Mrs M and Mr S believe  that RSA has acted  unreasonably in not agreeing to repair  their 
boiler and not agreeing to pay for the cost of replacing it. Mr S argues  that he isnt an expert  
on boilers and couldnt  say how old the boiler  actually was, and RSA wouldnt send someone 
to assess this without  charging for doing so.
Unhappy with RSAs  response to their complaint, Mrs M, as the policyholder,  brought it to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt  consider that RSA had done  anything wrong. She did recommend that 
if Mrs M had evidence  that the boiler was in fact only 7 years old, as Mrs Ms husband  had 
later told her, then if Mrs M could provide some confirmation of this from a contractor or 
plumber, she could  provide this to RSA. Mrs M hadnt provided any such  confirmation.
Mrs M isnt satisfied  with our investigators  view of her complaint,  and has asked that it be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mrs Ms complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Mrs Ms policy. The following terms are included:
Ref: DRN40590662We will pay the cost of the repair, parts and call-out charges for:
2. Loss of heating  as a result  of complete failure or breakdown of the
primary heating system of the home.
What is not covered:
Boilers over 15 years  old.
I think its clear  that the age of Mrs Ms boiler  is significant - the policy  doesnt cover  the 
repair of a boiler which is over 15 years  old. Ive listened to the telephone calls that Mrs M 
and her husband made to RSAs claims agents.  Mrs Ms husband initially told RSA that the 
boiler was probably  20 years old. He said their home had been built in 1999  and they had 
lived there for 14 years. So Mrs M wouldve moved there when the houses, and the boiler, 
were about  5 years old. In the absence of any evidence  to the contrary,  I think  that its more 
likely than not that Mrs Ms boiler  was the original  boiler, and that Mrs Ms husbands first 
statement as to its age was likely to be the correct  one. I havent been  provided with any 
evidence to the contrary.
So Im satisfied that Mrs Ms boiler was over 15 years old and therefore not covered by her 
policy.
Mrs M is upset that RSA wouldnt repair her boiler, particularly as she had a very young  child 
in the house, and was concerned  about  his health when there was no heating and hot water.  
Whilst I understand that concern, and appreciate that this was a worrying  time for the family, 
I have to be fair and reasonable towards  both parties in my assessment of this complaint 
and consider whether RSA did anything wrong. I dont consider that it did.
RSA offered to help by sending an engineer, although this would have to be paid for by Mrs 
M in the circumstances  of the boiler  not being  covered, but I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in treating their boiler  as excluded from cover  because of its age.
The policy terms were quite clear,  and Im satisfied  that they were available to Mrs M both at 
the point of online purchase, and after purchase. Mr S, in his second telephone call to RSA, 
refers to having only two pages relating to his home insurance cover.  Having seen a copy of 
Your Home  Insurance Policy Wording- Plus Cover , the cover  for home  emergency  
insurance is contained on only two pages   pages  20 and 21. Ive also seen a policy  renewal 
document which confirms  that Mrs M took out this policy, including  home emergency cover, 
in 2014 (or earlier). I therefore think Mrs M shouldve been aware of, or at least had access 
to, what her policy did and didnt cover. If shed considered that home  emergency  cover 
wasnt useful because  of the age of her boiler, she neednt have taken it out as it was 
optional. But the option does provide cover for a number of other emergency situations 
within the home and might still have provided  valuable benefits to Mrs M.
So Im also satisfied that Mrs M and Mr S had policy documentation available  to them, as 
theyd had the policy for a number of years.
I dont consider that RSA acted unfairly  or unreasonably in declining Mrs Ms claim on the 
ground that the policy expressly excludes cover for boilers over 15 years  old. The fact that 
Mrs M was concerned for the health  of her young  child is understandable, but I dont 
consider that its a reason  why RSA should  provide cover when the policy expressly 
Ref: DRN40590663excludes it. It did offer to help by sending an engineer,  although Mrs M would have  had to 
pay for this, but Mr S said he could arrange that himself.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.   
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4059066