K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund money he paid out after 
being a victim of a scam.
background 
In 2017 Mr P got a visit from somebody whod repaired  his roof and carried out other  works  
around his home. Mr P wasnt well at the time and felt slightly threatened by this individual  
and the people doing the work with him. He never  received a detailed  quotation confirming  
how much  the work would cost. Work was done  and Mr P paid by cheque. He wrote  11 
cheques over a month and a half from 14 August 2017. These were for amounts from 
£1,500 to £15,000 and totalled £98,500.  He also wrote a further four cheques from an 
account he held with another bank. In September Mr P also arranged  five large credits to 
this NatWest account.
Mr P realised hed been a victim of a scam.  Whilst some work may have been carried out, it 
was clear this had never been worth the £120,000 hed ended up paying. Mr P raised his 
concerns with NatWest.  They told him as the cheques  had been  correctly signed, they saw 
no reason why they shouldnt treat the payments as authorised  by Mr P.
Mr P  with the assistance of a friend, Mr M  brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service. He believed  NatWest had failed in their duty of care by clearing the cheques  without 
ever once raising any concerns with Mr P. The account  the cheques  had been drawn on was 
an account Mr P used for direct debits, standing orders,  small cheque transactions  and 
some pension credits with occasional cash machine withdrawals. The cheques had all been  
paid to people  with variations on the same  surname, who Ill call Mr S.
In October  2018 our adjudicator believed NatWest had done nothing  wrong  as the cheques  
had been properly signed. Nor were NatWest  aware of any vulnerability on Mr Ps behalf.  As 
cheque clearing is an automated system, she didnt think it was reasonable to expect 
NatWest to have picked up on the eleven  cheques.
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair. He asked an ombudsman to consider Mr Ps complaint. 
Unfortunately due to the number of fraud-related complaints our service has been reviewing, 
it took some  time for an ombudsman to be allocated this complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 26 May 2020.  I believed  there  was enough evidence to 
show NatWest should have noticed  the cheques being written on Mr Ps account  and 
questioned these. I asked them to consider refunding Mr P £56,000.
Mr M confirmed Mr P accepted this outcome. NatWest  asked  for an extension  to respond to 
the provisional decision. This was granted but nothing was received from them.  I informed 
NatWest I was about to proceed with writing my final decision.
I now have all I need to complete  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
Ref: DRN44249832conclusion as I reached in my provisional  decision.  No further evidence was given to me to 
review so my decision follows the same  lines as my provisional decision.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations would  normally be the relevant  law when payments are 
exchanged. These primarily require  banks to refund customers  if they didnt make  or 
authorise payments  themselves. So when we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in 
rejecting someones  fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether  the customer  
made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made.  If they did, then we 
generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.  
However the PSRs  do not cover cheque payments so  although  I have considered the 
general principles of this legislation   it doesnt overly apply to Mr Ps specific  position.
In broad terms a bank  is expected to process  payments  and withdrawals that a customer  
authorises it to make,  in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations  and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.  
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to look to identify and help prevent  transactions  particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could  involve fraud  or be the result of a scam (something 
also recognised  by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. I have noted  the 
BSI Code came into effect after the cheques were written in Mr Ps complaint.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr P, or whether it should  have done more  than it did. 
Ref: DRN44249833So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both NatWest  and Mr P have  told us. Ive also looked  at how Mr P used his NatWest 
account.
Firstly I should confirm  theres no dispute  that Mr P signed these  cheques  and gave them  to 
somebody purporting  to be a Mr S. So at a basic level Mr P wrote,  and therefore  authorised, 
these cheque payments.
I raised some additional issues  with NatWest around  these payments to help me consider 
whether NatWest should have done more.  This included why this set of cheques  processed 
within a relatively short  period didnt  trigger any checks  within  NatWests  fraud  system for 
unusual behaviour. Particularly  when I note theres also large  credits  made  to the account 
within the same period.  These credits  enabled  the cheques  to be cashed.
So I considered whether  Mr P had any history of writing almost  £100,000 worth of cheques 
in such a short period. NatWest confirmed some of these cheques may have been checked  
but only to ensure these were signed by Mr P and that none of these  had been  subject to a 
stop being requested by Mr P.
Its true banks have  made a risk-based decision not to check every cheque. And in the 
1990s four billion cheques were processed  a year so that wouldnt have been feasible  
anyway (although cheque use is at a much lower level these days). Certain  patterns  of 
cheque use may never be picked  up. 
Ive taken on board the points NatWest made that Mr P used cheques frequently.  I can see 
the last cheque book issued to him had only been  in May 2017. From January 2016 to April 
2018 NatWest  issued 10 cheque books. Thats certainly far more than the average cheque 
use particularly as many  of us now use cheques less frequently  than we did. However from 
Mr Ps statements, I can see that his cheques are predominantly  low-value  apart from these 
11 in dispute.   
I accept the first three  cheques for £3,500,  £4,500 and £7,500  wouldnt  necessarily  cause 
alarms to ring. But I can see that two subsequent cheques were both for £13,500. I think 
these would have  been worthy of further  examination.  
I asked NatWest whether  they would consider refunding Mr P some  of the cheques hed 
written under  Quincecare provisions.  I didnt get a response. I think  NatWest should have 
made a business  decision  to query what was going  on. And if theyd raised that query  
perhaps by calling Mr P  I believe he would have confirmed what  had been  happening and 
that cheque and subsequent ones could have been stopped.
I appreciate there are value-based thresholds used  for undertaking manual checks of 
signatures. This is often the strategy adopted  to tackle third-party  cheque  fraud.  But of 
course banks do have a responsibility  under FCA codes of conduct  and even Quincecare  
as mentioned above  to carry out further  checks and identify patterns of unusual  behaviour.  
NatWest didnt do this in this instance and I believe they should have.
I have considered about how generally  fraudsters operate in an environment where money is 
moved on swiftly so this is why reimbursement models concentrate on this aspect.  Cheques  
arent subject to this as cheque processing  still takes a period  of time. This time lag allows  
customers or potential victims to reflect on what happened and take action to stop a cheque.
Ref: DRN44249834Unfortunately Mr P was unwell at the time he was a victim of fraudsters so I think it took 
some time for family and friends to help him complain about what  happened.  However Im 
satisfied if NatWest had contacted him whilst they were processing these cheques, he  or 
his brother who supports  him  would have  been  able to confirm what  had happened so the 
cheques could have  been stopped.
Ive considered all the different aspects in this complaint. I still believe it is fair and 
reasonable for NatWest to repay Mr P from after the fifth cheque (and the second written for 
£13,500). This means they will need  to repay  Mr P £56,000, along with 8% simple interest a 
year. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is to instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund £56,000 to Mr P; and
Add 8% simple interest a year from the dates those cheques  debited Mr Ps account 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4424983