K822xcomplaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc  trading as Halifax - mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs R bought the policy at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  This was during a 
meeting with Halifax in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mrs R says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge or her consent.  Halifax  
shouldve made  Mrs R aware she had a choice about taking out the policy. Halifax  has sent 
us a copy of Mrs Rs signed credit agreement. The form isnt very clear but it looks  like the 
form was filled in and printed  off by Halifax and was then signed by Mrs R. 
The form has a section  for the PPI and this has been marked  with an x to opt for the policy. 
It also contains Mrs Rs personal  information, such as her job, mothers maiden name and 
date of birth. This suggests a conversation took place between Mrs R and Halifaxs  
employee and the form has been  filled in based on what was discussed. So I think  its likely 
Mrs R was aware of the contents of the form and she chose  to take the policy  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs R says she would have received some  sick pay benefits from her employer. The policy 
would have paid out alongside her benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she 
became unemployed. And it doesnt look like Mrs R had any other  means  such  as savings 
 she could have  used. Ive thought about what Mrs R has said about her partner  being  able 
to help out if she couldnt make her repayments.  But circumstance can change and whilst I 
dont doubt Mrs Rs partner wouldve wanted to help, this help couldnt  be guaranteed.  So 
Halifax wasnt wrong to recommend the policy to her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ref: DRN45816912This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4581691