K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she invested £50,000 in an unsuitable MetLife Secure Income for Life Bond (the 
bond) recommended  by Mercer  Limited (Mercer) around 2012/2013.
background
Available evidence  of the circumstances  around the time of the recommendation include a 
fact find document  Mrs C appears to have signed  in December 2012 and a recommendation 
report that she appears to have  signed  in February  2013. They  suggest  as follows:
She was a basic rate retired tax payer with total annual  income  of around £17,500, 
which covered her living expenses at the time. She was widowed, without 
dependents, and she was also mortgage free  her home  was valued  at around 
£375,000. She inherited £300,000 around  10 years  previously and she had around  
£197,000 remaining  in capital (mainly deposit savings and an Individual  Savings 
Account). She needed an emergency capital fund of £15,000 over the following three 
years and, over the following five years,  she had planned  home improvement 
expenditure totalling around £25,000. She had additional reasons to retain some 
more capital and in total she sought to reserve around £91,000 in deposit  capital.
She was a novice  investor and was assessed  as having a moderate attitude to risk 
(ATR). Her objective was to preserve  capital for future  income and to achieve  growth  
of her capital. She did not require additional income at the time but the 
recommendation report refers to an agreement to defer,  for five years,  the option of 
drawing additional  income.
From just over £100,000  available for investment, Mercer recommended  that Mrs C invest 
£5,640 in a Stocks and Shares ISA to maximise her allowance for the tax year,  invest  
£50,000 in a Unit Trust and invest £50,000 in the bond. The option to defer  income for five 
years was selected for the bond.
Mrs C surrendered the bond in 2018 and complained  to Mercer as stated above. Her 
complaint also featured her dissatisfaction with the growth of around £4,700 in the bond and, 
in that context, charges of around  £10,800.  Mercer  concluded that the bond was suitable  for 
her. In summary, its position  is that:
Mrs C had a moderate ATR and the bond was arguably a low risk investment, it 
guaranteed that income would  not fall below  a certain level and that the fund used  to 
purchase said income would not fall below the amount invested. As such,  the bond 
was a suitable match to her ATR.
Mrs Cs income  catered for her living expenses at the time and the bond gave her the 
option to draw additional income  after five years, whilst protecting  (and guaranteeing)  
growth in the capital.  After its recommendations, she was left with the £25,000 
earmarked for home improvements and £65,000  in deposit based  accounts.
The bond accounted for around 25% of her portfolio  and given its characteristics this 
was not an excessive allocation.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. Initially  he considered that the bond was 
unsuitable. He reviewed the matter  further and issued  a revised view in which he concluded, 
Ref: DRN42214692on balance, that the bond was suitable,  for broadly the same  reasons as those given by 
Mercer. He also noted that the unit trust investment could be viewed as a higher risk 
venture, yet no complaint about  it appears  to have been raised and that he appreciates     
Mrs Cs disappointment  with the performance of the bond but that alone was insufficient to 
say the bond was unsuitable. 
The adjudicator also sought to clarify a point Mrs C had made about a more recent Mercer 
adviser telling  her that the bond  recommendation in 2012/13 was unsuitable  Mercer  
refuted this assertion and said the advisers  comments has been  misunderstood.  However, 
Mrs C responded and vehemently  asserted   with reference to information about  her 
meetings with the new adviser  that his comments were not misunderstood. The matter was 
referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as in the adjudicators last view for broadly the same reasons he gave. On 
balance, I consider the bond was suitable for Mrs C.
The contents of Mrs Cs complaint related letter to Mercer in August  2018 strongly  suggest  
that the performance by and, in that context, the charges from the bond  were a primary 
cause for her concern (or complaint). I do not dismiss  the other issues  that have been 
addressed in terms of the bonds  suitability,  but the balance of overall evidence   and 
especially from this letter  gives rise to this suggestion. The bonds performance   including  
an evaluation of its charges  in the context  of its performance  would not automatically  
determine whether  (or not) it was suitable.  This service would not normally take such  an 
approach and I have  not seen a reason to do so.
I consider evidence of the fact find and recommendation  report to be reliable, information 
appears to be consistent within both and, as I said above, both appear to have been signed  
by Mrs C  which implies  her agreement with their contents at the time.
The recommendation broadly respected and adhered to Mrs Cs instructions in terms of the 
capital she sought  to make available for investments and the capital she sought to reserve  
just over £100,000  was invested and £90,000 was reserved. 
The bond  accounted for about half of the investments made  and, as Mercer pointed out, 
about a quarter of Mrs Cs available capital. The notion that Mrs C did not need  income  at 
the time of advice  does not appear to be in dispute.  The advice related documents   which  
also include  meeting notes and illustrations for the bond  confirm this and Mercer  has noted 
the same  in its statements. However, there  appears to have been  an agreement  at the time 
 which  is also supported by the advice related documents   that Mrs C could decide to 
draw additional  income  from the bond in the future, hence the deferred income option within 
it. That option does  not appear  to have been at the expense  of the capital growth  she 
sought, given  that the capital base (for income) was guaranteed to increase annually  by 
4.25% during the deferral  period. I consider that this arrangement sought to match both 
needs for capital  growth and income.
I appreciate that the arrangement did not translate to the type of growth Mrs C was 
expecting at the point of surrender. She surrendered the bond after five years and that would 
have been the time when the income  that was deferred could have begun to be drawn. 
Ref: DRN42214693Evidence suggests that the capital base  that would have been  used  for the calculation  of 
that income would  have  been more than the capital Mrs C received on surrender. This 
difference was an element within the bonds characteristics. 
The implication appears to be that growth in the bond was at least partly (or perhaps mainly) 
defined by the deferred income element. Based on what appears to have been the state of 
affairs at the outset, whereby the deferred  income  element  appears  to have been a part of 
the objective for the bond, it could not reasonably be said that this implication  was 
unsuitable. Upon  the bonds  surrender,  without  using  or exhausting its deferred income  for 
life element, the circumstances in 2018  essentially  became different to the circumstances in 
2012/13 upon which the recommendation  was made   that is, the surrender in 2018 
suggests that Mrs C appears to have no longer sought to have the income for life element. I 
consider it fair and reasonable to consider suitability of the bond on the basis  of the 
circumstances in which it was recommended  and in that respect,  I do not consider that it 
mismatched its objective.
I note that Mrs C was a widow, was retired and was a novice investor. However,  given the 
bonds guaranteed deferred income  element, its guaranteed growth to the capital base (for 
income) during the deferral  period  and its secured  income for life, I do not consider that the 
bond was too risky for her.
I do not have enough  evidence to determine the dispute over what  was or was not said to 
Mrs C by her new Mercer adviser in 2018.  Both parties have made  different assertions  in this 
respect and I do not consider that available evidence tips in favour of either party. However,  I 
consider that documentary evidence (including statements from the parties)  that shows,  
overall and on balance, that the bond  was suitable for Mrs C when it was recommended in 
2012/13 is meaningful and reliable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4221469