K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) has unfairly recorded negative
information about him on industry databases.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January. In that I said I wasnt intending 
to uphold Mr Ss complaint, because I thought Clydesdale had put right a mistake  it had 
made and paid sufficient compensation  for the problems this had caused.
I thought other than that Clydesdale was correct to record information about  Mr S on an 
industry database reflecting inconsistent information provided by customers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale has accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr S doesnt  think its a fair resolution  to his problems.
Mr S says the second database is used for fraud prevention, and its unfair to label him as 
making potentially  fraudulent  applications  simply because he legitimately lives at two 
addresses. I do appreciate this point of view. And I agree the relevant website suggests the 
database is used  to help prevent fraud by flagging up inconsistent information,  which  might  
indicate a potential problem. But it doesnt say its a register of known fraudulent activity, as 
CIFAS is. 
This also doesnt affect the fact that Clydesdale has correctly recorded that Mr S is using two 
different addresses  when  making applications  for financial products. So I cant  say its done  
something wrong. And I must  accept  that Clydesdale uses  this database  as a means of 
spotting (or alerting  other businesses to) inconsistencies that need further clarification, not 
that it assumes anybody  with an entry  is making a fraudulent application. Im afraid  I cant  
comment on how other businesses interpret the information as thats not part of this 
decision.
Mr S did tell us about an account he applied for elsewhere. I asked him to tell me more  
about that, to see if hes suffered a loss because of the information Clydesdale put on CIFAS 
in error.  Mr S doesnt  believe thats  the case, as he believes his application was rejected 
because of the information on the second  database. Ive already  said I think this database 
reflects the right information about Mr S, so I dont  think this affects my decision. Mr S might 
be able to bring a complaint about his application  being refused to the other business, and 
hes free to do that if he so wishes.
Ref: DRN42215912my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42215913Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale  Bank Plc (Clydesdale) has unfairly recorded  negative
information about him on industry databases.
background
Mr S applied to open an account with Clydesdale.  Clydesdale said it didnt  want to do that.
Mr S says although he accepts that Clydesdale  can say no to such a request, its now
recorded incorrect and unfair information about him on two industry databases  CIFAS,
which is a fraud prevention  register and another where  entries  about inconsistent  information
are recorded.
Mr S says this is because he lives at two different addresses, quite  legitimately, as he owns
both. So its normal for him to have  banking  and other facilities registered  at different
addresses.
When Mr S complained about this Clydesdale said it had wrongly recorded  the CIFAS entry
and would remove  it. It said the other database simply  flags up inconsistencies   and using
two addresses is reason enough to record an inconsistency. It says this database only,  in
effect, warns other  businesses of the inconsistency  and its then up to other businesses to
verify information as they wish. It offered  Mr S £100  for the mistakes it had made.
Mr S was unhappy  about  this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought his complaint should  be upheld.  He didnt  think either marker should
be recorded, as Mr S had shown us that he was receiving mail from other financial
businesses at both addresses when he applied for his account at Clydesdale. He also
suggested the compensation offered should be increased to £150.
Clydesdale disagrees and has re-stated its reasons for keeping the inconsistencies  marker.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has explained why he uses  two addresses, and given us paperwork  that shows he has
bank accounts registered at each address. I dont doubt his reasons  for why this is so.
I can see that Clydesdale has removed the information it recorded on the fraud prevention
register, and offered  to pay £100 for the mistake  it made. It seems from Clydesdales  notes
that the marker was present  for about  a month  so I think the £100 it offered as
compensation for this error is a fair amount.
Ive also thought  about  the information Clydesdale has recorded on the other database. Ive
seen the entry and it shows three addresses for Mr S. Two  the ones hes told us about 
are marked  as inconsistent and the other  which  might  be a previous address  is marked
clear.
The bank has also sent us the notes it made at the time about Mr Ss application. They say
the bank was content that the application Mr S made for an account was genuine  and that
it checked his passport  and utility bills to support that.
The notes also say Mr S explained he was using his parents address,  and go on to say that
Ref: DRN42215914hes also lived at another address for several years. The bank thinks thats enough  to record
inconsistencies on the second database. And, as Clydesdale has said, the purpose of
flagging these  inconsistencies  is simply  so that other businesses make sure they get and
check the full information  about a prospective customer  before  giving them banking or credit
facilities. Its important banks  do this for legal  and regulatory  reasons. The purposes of the
fraud prevention  register and other database are connected, but different. So its reasonable
that the outcome  as far as this complaint is concerned  might be different.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Clydesdale has recorded on the database. Im satisfied that
the information Clydesdale has submitted reflects the fact that Mr S uses  two addresses and
doesnt suggest that this is fraudulent in any way. In fact it only reflects  what  Mr S has told
us are his living arrangements. So I dont currently think Clydesdale has done anything
wrong.
Based on the above information, Im not intending to ask Clydesdale to change  the
information it submitted to the other database or pay the additional  compensation our
investigator recommended.
Mr S has said the information  is causing  him problems with other banks/providers of finance.
I havent seen any evidence of that, or that other banks etc might be refusing Mr Ss
applications solely because of the information shown  on the other database and without
carrying out further  checks.  If Mr S believes another bank (or other provider) has done that,
he might be able to complain  about this to the business  concerned.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4221591