K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out an PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments  Cover with their existing 
mortgage in 2004. They paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  They  took this policy  out as 
part of a package  called  Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) which  offered accident,  
sickness, unemployment, critical  illness and life cover. 
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs B and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs B aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. Mr and 
Mrs B say it wasnt  made clear  the PPI was optional. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs B have much  paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising.  But it does mean  I have  limited information about  the sale,  so I have to 
decide what I think is likely to have  happened, given the information I do have and the 
broader circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Mr and Mrs B a series of 
questions checking  whether they were eligible for the policy  and also recorded their 
answers. I think this suggests that a discussion took place  between Mr and Mrs B and 
Halifax about mortgage PPI  and based on what I know  about  how Halifax sold policies like 
this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs B they had a choice  
about the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs B. So it had to check  it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  Mr Bs in particular  as the policy  was split 100% 
to Mr B and 0% to Mr B  they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  Mr B wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr B says he would  have received a generous amount of sick pay benefits  from his 
employer. But the policy wouldve paid out alongside his employee benefits and for longer. It 
wouldve also covered  him if he was made  redundant. It doesnt  look like they had any other 
Ref: DRN43479832means  such as savings   that they could have relied upon if Mr B lost his job. So it seems 
they had a need for the policy.  Mr and Mrs B were borrowing  funds against  a large and long 
term financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think  having the security  
that their mortgage repayments would be made if Mr B was unable to work would have been 
important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But Mr and Mrs B chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything Halifax  might  have done wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs B some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 these rules  dont apply.  So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4347983