K821x#15ComplaintMr C is unhappy that his no claims discount  wasnt accepted  by Policywise Ltd after buying a 
policy on-line under one of its trading  styles.  And hes also unhappy that he has been  
charged fees to cancel  his policy. Ive referred to Policywise throughout this decision for the 
sake of ease.
Background
On 16 April 2019 Mr C used a price comparison site to find car insurance quotes. The
process required Mr C to input how many years no claim discount  (NCD)  he had and where
this NCD was earned. So, he entered  his 3 years NCD and indicated this was earned
outside the UK.
The site then produced a list of providers and quotes. Mr C chose Policywise  and was taken
to its website where he says he was asked to confirm how many years  NCD he had, but
wasnt asked where this was from. Mr C bought the policy  and paid Policywise a £350
deposit.
Policywise sent Mr C a welcome pack on 16 April 2019. And on 23 April 2019 it asked Mr C
for proof of his NCD. Mr C emailed this to Policywise  on 26 April 2019; the same day it fitted
a telematics box to his car, as part of the terms of his policy.
Mr C called Policywise on 01 May 2019  for an update. From the phone call Policywise
realised that it did receive the email with the NCD information from Mr C, but one of its
advisors had initially  missed it. However, when it went through the email, it realised Mr Cs
NCD was earnt outside the UK  something the policy insurer didnt accept.  Because  of this
Policywise told Mr C that he would either need to cancel the policy or pay an additional
premium of £999.
Mr C opted to cancel  his policy but wanted a full refund. Policywise said this wasnt  possible
due to charges  and fees for the cancellation  of his policy. Mr C wasnt  happy with what
Policywise told him and complained. He said that he was entitled  to a full refund and was
unhappy that Policywise didnt tell him that it didnt accept non-UK NCD on its website.
Policywise said that the welcome pack it sent Mr C clearly indicated that it doesnt accept
NCD from outside of the UK and it wasnt aware  Mr Cs was built up outside the UK until it
saw Mr Cs NCD documents. It said the comparison  site had an information box next to the
questions about  NCDs which says that consumers should call providers to check  their
criteria. It also said that the fees and charges were made of the following; time on risk
(cover), cancellation fee, telematics box fee, and the price  comparison site marketing fee.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Policywises response  so brought his complaint to our service.
I sent Mr C and Policywise my provisional decision on 22 April 2020.  I explained why I was 
intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ive copied the relevant part of my provisional  decision 
below for the sake of clarity:
Ref: DRN47008592My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Im aware Policywise have said that the price comparison  site used for Mr Cs quote
indicated he should  have called them about their NCD criteria.  But Mr C eventually bought
his policy  through  Policywises website. So, I will be looking at what  information Policywise
provided Mr C when  he came to its website. And the documentation  Policywise  provided.
I appreciate on the comparison site there  was a pop up about the fact some  businesses
dont accept non-UK  NCDs.  But if this was key to whether Policywise  offered  Mr C the policy
or not, I think Policywise needed to make  it clear to Mr C when he entered  its process.
Under the rules  covering the sale of general  insurance. Policywise needed  to provide
Mr C with sufficient information to make an informed decision about  the policy before he
agreed to buy it. And this information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading.
So, Ive carefully  considered whether  Policywise made it clear to Mr C that it didnt accept a
non-UK NCD before he bought his policy with them. And from what I can see I dont think it
did.
Mr C said that Policywises website didnt ask him about where his NCD came  from  he
said it only asked in him in general terms if he had 3 years NCD. Having personally reviewed
the quote process as it currently appears on the Policywises website, I can't see any
information suggesting that foreign NCDs aren't accepted.  Whilst I recognise  it's possible
that the information provided has changed  within the last year,  this does tend to support
Mr Cs account that he wasn't told this. So, I think  it's most likely he didn't receive this
warning online.  So, I dont think Policywise fulfilled  its obligation  to provide Mr C with clear,
fair and not misleading information  at this point. And Im not satisfied that it put him in a
position to make an informed decision about  the policy he was buying.
Ive then considered  what  Mr C would have done had he known that Policywise didnt accept
non-UK NCD. I think its clear  from what Mr C has told us and the fact he asked to cancel the
policy once he found out, that he wouldnt have gone ahead  and bought  the policy if hed
known this. And so, it follows, he wouldnt have incurred any of the charges and fees.  But
this isnt the only thing to consider.
Although I dont think Mr C should have been in the position of having purchased the policy.
I still need to consider  what happened  after this to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to
his complaint.
Mr C received a welcome pack  from Policywise on 16 April 2019. The welcome pack clearly
stated that Policywise  didnt accept non-UK NCD and explained that should  there  be
anything wrong  that he should call Policywise  immediately. I think at this point Mr C should
have been aware  that having a non-UK NCD was likely to be an issue  and I think  he had an
opportunity at this point  to contact Policywise and cancel the policy,  but he didnt. And
because of this, the telematics box was fitted to his car on 26 April,  which  meant Policywise
Ref: DRN47008593incurred a cost of £106.36. Had Mr C called Policywise when  he received the welcome  pack
at any point before 26 April, I think its likely  the policy would have  been  cancelled at this
point and Policywise wouldnt have incurred the cost of installing the telematics  box.
So, while I think Policywise  made the initial  error by not making  it clear  enough  it didnt
accept non-UK NCD before Mr C took out his policy, Mr C did have the opportunity  to
contact it about  this before he had the telematics  box fitted. Therefore, I think  its reasonable
for Policywise to keep  the money  to cover what this cost.  And Im satisfied from what its said
it did cost £106.36.  I also think  that Policywise is entitled to deduct the cost of removing the
telematics box. But it should  only charge what it actually costs  to have it removed, as
opposed to the fee it normally charges. Unless, of course, it can show the fee is what it
actually costs.
And I think Mr C should also pay for the cover he received from the insurer,  as he has had
the benefit of the policy for the period that it was in place. But I think  this should  be based on
his original policy premium which was inclusive of his three-year NCD, as this is what hed
probably have  paid for a suitable policy elsewhere  if Policywise had made the NCD issue
clear to him when he bought the policy.
But I dont think Policywise  should be allowed to charge any other fees or deduct any other
amounts, as Mr C only ended up with the policy because  it failed  in its obligations to him
when he bought the policy.  And he wouldnt have had to pay any of these amounts if it had
made the position regarding non-UK NCDs clear when Mr C bought the policy.
Ive considered if Mr C suffered any distress and inconvenience because of Policywises
actions. And I appreciate  that Policywises  failure  to make the position with non-UK NCDs
clear has caused Mr C him some frustration  and inconvenience. But Im also mindful that
Mr C couldve  alleviated some of this if hed contacted Policywise  when he received his
welcome letter. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask
Policywise to pay compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
As an aside,  if Policywise have recorded  or reported Mr Cs cancellation  on any external or
internal databases  then this record should be removed, as Mr C shouldnt  have been in the
position where he needed to cancel his policy.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Mr C agreed with my provisional  decision.  Policywise told us they didnt agree with the 
provisional decision, reiterating that the comparison site indicated to Mr C that he should  
have called them about their NCD criteria.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I appreciate the comparison site had a pop up relating to 
the fact some businesses  dont accept non-UK NCDs.  However,  as I also said,  I think  
Policywise needed to make this clear to Mr C when he entered  its process.  
Policywise also said as Mr C was purchasing  a policy from the UK, on a UK website, and 
with a UK based  broker and insurer, he should have questioned why a UK insurer should  
Ref: DRN47008594accept foreign NCD evidence. Im not persuaded by this argument  Ill explain why.
As I also set out in my provisional decision,  the rules covering the sale of general insurance  
mean that Policywise  needed to provide Mr C with enough information to make an informed 
decision about purchasing a policy prior to agreeing to buy it. So, I think  that the onus was 
on Policywise to make  it clear to Mr C that it didnt accept foreign NCD, not the other way 
around. And as Ive mentioned above,  I dont think Policywise made this clear enough to 
Mr C when he entered their sales process. And this means I dont think  it fulfilled its 
obligation to provide Mr C with enough information  to make an informed  decision or its 
obligation to provide him with clear,  fair and not misleading information, 
Overall, I havent seen any further  information that changes my mind on the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint as set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and require Policywise  Ltd to do the following:
Refund Mr C £350 - less £106.36 for installing the telematics box, less the actual cost 
of removing it, and less the cost of providing cover to Mr C for the period  it was in 
place based on his original policy premium, inclusive  of his three year no claims 
discount.
Remove any external  or internal record or report of the cancellation of Mr Cs policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Matthew Hamlyn
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700859