K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Premium Plan Limited 
(PPL) wasnt of satisfactory  quality and shouldnt have been financed as it had previously  
been in an accident.
background
Mr V took receipt of a used car in January 2018. He financed  the vehicle through a hire 
purchase agreement  with PPL but in May 2018  he complained  to them  as he was unhappy  
to discover that the vehicle may have been in an accident prior to him taking receipt  of it.
He discovered that the panels  were  slightly different  shades and there was evidence  of a 
respray to the bumper and nearside  passenger panels.  He also noted  that the most recent 
MOT, completed before  he took receipt of the car, had identified  problems consistent with a 
car that had been in an accident. The car had failed  its MOT  because  the reflectors  and stop 
lamp on the nearside  were damaged  and also because  it needed  adjustments  to the brakes 
and the windscreen  washer wasnt working properly.
He complained to PPL who arranged an independent inspection  of the vehicle. The 
inspector agreed  that there had been a respray  that was at the lower end of industry 
standards. He couldnt find any evidence of structural damage and said the vehicle  was in 
an acceptable condition;  likely to pass an MOT  and that there was no evidence that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
As a result of this report PPL agreed to respray the affected car panels. But Mr V still wasnt 
happy as he was disappointed a car that had been  involved in a previous accident could be 
financed. He thought  this was wrong and he asked this service to consider  his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  agree with Mr V. She didnt think  it was wrong for a car, that had been 
the subject of a previous accident,  to be financed but she did say that shed expect it to be of 
satisfactory quality. And she was persuaded that this car had been;  as she noted  it wasnt  a 
brand new car when  supplied. It had done 23,000  miles and she thought it was reasonable 
to suggest there may be some minor damage  on a vehicle  of that age. She noted that there 
was no structural damage to the car and she thought the repairs  noted in the MOT  were  
minor and completed to a satisfactory  standard.
But Mr V didnt agree. He said the garage that supplied him with the car had been accused 
of selling dodgy  cars before and that the inspection  that had been performed had been 
very short and performed  in bad weather. He suggested that the inspection was therefore  
inadequate and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr V but I dont think PPL need to take any further  action here. 
Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN42189642Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr V acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PPL is responsible  
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
The law also says that the car mustnt  be misrepresented. Theres nothing  to stop a finance  
provider financing a previously accident damaged vehicle. But if I found that the car was 
involved in a previous accident and Mr V hadnt been informed of that issue when he agreed  
to the deal then I could  tell PPL to take the vehicle back and end the finance arrangement.  
But Id have to be persuaded  that if he had been informed of the accident damage  he would 
not have proceeded with the agreement,  
Ill consider each of these  issues.
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
I dont think it was because the paint was mismatched and this has been confirmed by the 
independent inspection. 
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows PPL one opportunity  to repair the fault 
and I see that PPL have  now completed  that repair satisfactorily. 
Ive not been provided with any evidence of structural or mechanical faults that were there at 
the point of supply. 
So I think the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality but as PPL have now satisfactorily  completed  
the repairs, they are allowed to complete,  they dont need to take any further action.
was the car misrepresented?
For me to decide this was the case I would  have to be persuaded that the dealership should 
have known the car had been in a previous accident and I dont think  I have information to 
demonstrate they were  aware, or should have been aware, of this. 
The dealership has explained that they didnt respray the car themselves and the inspection 
completed at auction didnt  identify any previous damage.  The issues noted at the MOT 
appear to have been minor and there is no structural damage  reported. The vehicle  history  
check that was completed didnt  identify any issues with the vehicle, for example whether it 
had been previously scrapped, clocked or written off. So I dont think theres anything 
obvious that should have  alerted  the dealership that there had been a previous accident. 
And even  if I was persuaded that there  was evidence the dealership  were  aware of an 
accident Id have to be persuaded that Mr V wouldnt have proceeded with the car deal if 
hed been made aware. Im not persuaded that this is the case  as there appears  to have 
been no structural or mechanical  issues with the vehicle.
Ive considered what Mr V said about the garage not being reputable. Ive had to think about 
the specifics of this case and the actions of the garage in relation to this issue alone. It 
Ref: DRN42189643wouldnt be fair for me to consider allegations  or historical issues  that are unrelated  to this 
case.
Mr V has also had some concerns about  the brevity of the inspection that was made of his 
vehicle. He says the inspector was only with him for ten minutes. I see that the inspector  was 
asked to comment on the paint finish and whether the vehicle was satisfactory at the point of 
purchase. He took paint thickness measurements  and established the paint repair  had been  
poorly completed and I think  its clear  this part of the inspection was satisfactory. He wasnt  
advised of any other  issues  that may have  rendered the car unsatisfactory  at the point of 
supply so I can see he looked to see if there was any structural  damage in the areas where 
the paint had been repaired. I think thats  sufficient  in the circumstances. 
So overall, I dont  think theres sufficient  evidence to suggest the car was mis-sold and the 
issue with the paint quality has now been  satisfactorily resolved.  So I dont think  PPL need to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4218964