K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)unfairly refused to offer her a fixed  rate 
mortgage product  and she remained  on the standard  variable rate (SVR).Mrs B would like 
BOS to refund her some  of what she considers to be the unfairly  overcharged interest.
background
Mrs B had a mortgage with BOS. Mrs B says her last fixed  rate product ended in 2014 since 
which time she was on the banks SVR until she remortgaged with another  lender. Mrs B 
says that BOS refused to allow her to move to a more  competitive product because of a 
consent to let issue. Mrs B says that for a time she wasnt in a position to remortgage but did 
so in September 2018. Mrs B says that BOSs  refusal to allow  her to move products was 
unfair. Mrs B also says that BOS wont tell her the cost of its funding  so that she can work 
out its profit margin on her account. Mrs B believes  that with help from the government  its 
cost of funding  would  be lower than the interest rate charged.
BOS says that in order to get a product transfer  Mrs B would have had to reside in her 
property. However, there was a consent  to let on the property which meant  that Mrs B didnt 
reside there  and didnt  qualify for a new mortgage  product.  BOS  said that the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Bs mortgage would have  said that after the end of a mortgage product, the 
interest rate would revert to the SVR. So BOS said that Mrs B should have been aware of 
this and could  have moved to another lender if she was unhappy  with this. The bank  also 
said that its cost of funding was commercially sensitive and wouldnt provide this information.  
Our investigator didnt  believe  that BOS had done  anything wrong and didnt  uphold  this 
complaint. Mrs B disagrees saying that in 2014  when her fixed  rate ended she couldnt apply 
for another  product with BOS as BOS  required a fresh application that would highlight some 
adverse credit on her credit file. So, Mrs B moved in with her partner and let out the property 
and got a consent to let. Mrs B says that she was a trapped  borrower and that the 
requirement that Mrs B couldnt apply for a mortgage product after requesting a consent  to 
let was unfair. Mrs B also says that BOS  shouldnt be able to charge whatever  interest  rate it 
likes to customers through the SVR. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says that her fixed rate product ended in 2014. But the documents  supplied  by BOS 
indicate that it in fact ended two years later in 2016. In April 2016  Mrs B applied  for a 
consent to lease. In the application  dated  15 April 2016, Mrs B says that I have presently 
got engaged and moved in with my fianc. I am unable  to remortgage to a buy to let lender 
because of adverse  credit, due to a debt management plan I entered into in 2011/12 
Please can you consent to me letting my property for the next 12-24 months at which point I 
intend to remortgage  to a buy to let. Mrs B applied to renew this application in April 2017 for 
a further 12 months.  BOS  agreed to both applications.
Mrs B says that she was a trapped borrower  forced to make  this consent to lease application  
because BOS refused  her a new mortgage  product. BOS says it has no record  of Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN48244582application for a new mortgage product in 2016 or of the bank refusing it. BOS says that 
having a poor credit  record wouldnt have affected  her application to obtain a new rate. I see 
that in her complaint, Mrs B says that the adverse credit  went  back to 2011/12. But in 
October 2013, Mrs B applied for and got a new mortgage product that expired in February 
2016. This suggests that BOS allowed Mrs B to take out a new mortgage  product despite the 
adverse credit and that Mrs Bs recollection that she was refused a mortgage product 
because of the adverse credit is mistaken.
Both the evidence from BOS and the contents of the consent to let application dont indicate 
that Mrs B made the application because  she was trapped.  Mrs B made the application 
because she wanted to move in with her partner, who later became her fianc, at another  
property and asked  for a consent to let. Mrs B wanted BOS  to amend the terms of her 
mortgage which didnt  allow  her to let out the property. BOS agreed to amend subject to 
certain terms including that Mrs B would be unable to transfer to another mortgage  product.
This meant that Mrs B would be on a higher  interest  rate than if she remained resident  in the 
property. But a mortgage on a property that is let out will generally  be at a higher rate than a 
residential mortgage and I find nothing unusual  or unfair there.  Mrs B would like to know 
what BOS costs of funding are. BOS says it wont disclose it as its commercially sensitive. I 
believe thats a reasonable response  and wouldnt  expect that a company would be 
expected to disclose its costs - as opposed to its prices - to a customer and I know  of no 
regulation that requires  it to do so. For the above  reasons I cant  fairly uphold  this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4824458