K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt honoured a quote it gave him to 
renew his healthcare insurance policy.
background
Mr C has had a healthcare policy with Aviva  for several years. It was due to renew on 1 May 
2018. He says that in previous years Aviva has sent him a renewal letter  by post and hes 
then paid the premium  by credit card.
Aviva wrote to him in March 2018, telling him to log onto its website to find his renewal 
details. Mr C says he logged on to Avivas website on about  15 to 20 occasions and each 
time he saw that the premium was £2,810.81. 
Shortly before going abroad on 17 April Mr C rang Aviva to check it had his correct credit  
card details to renew the policy. At that point Aviva  told Mr C the premium was actually 
£3,793.18. 
Aviva agreed that thered  been some confusion as to what  information had been on its 
website when Mr C logged on. It apologised for the mistake and sent Mr C £150 
compensation for this. It said it wouldnt honour  any incorrect  premium  quoted  previously on 
its website as Mr C had been told the correct  premium before the policy  renewed.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  agreed  that Aviva  didnt have  to 
honour the wrong insurance quote. But he thought  it should pay Mr C a further  £150  
compensation.
As Aviva didnt agree, the matter has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Cs dismay at being presented  with a substantial increase in his premium. 
But I cant tell Aviva what it should  charge Mr C for his healthcare  cover. Thats  for it to 
decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of a claim being  made  under the policy and 
its wider commercial requirements. Aviva  has shown  us how Mr Cs premium  was 
calculated. Im not able to share that information with Mr C because its confidential. But Id 
like to reassure him that Im satisfied it was calculated fairly and in line with what  Aviva 
would have charged its other customers who were similar to Mr C.
Aviva accepts that it wasnt made clear to Mr C when he logged onto its website before his 
policy was due for renewal that the renewal  premium  would  be £3,793.18. So the issue I 
have to decide is whether Aviva has treated Mr C fairly and reasonably in what its done to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN43259582I think Mr C must have  been very concerned about  his renewal terms or he wouldnt have 
logged on to Avivas  website so often to check the renewal terms. It must therefore  have 
come as a big disappointment  when he came to renew the policy to learn that the premium  
was about a third more  expensive than hed been led to believe. Since he was shortly about 
to travel abroad and wasnt  planning to return before the policy  was due to renew, he also 
had a limited opportunity  to do anything about  it such as shopping  around  to see whether  he 
could get similar cover at a lower price.  I can understand  that would have been very 
frustrating and caused him a degree of trouble  and upset after he had gone to some lengths 
to check he had the right information. Taking  into account the effect Avivas mistake had on 
Mr C I agree that total compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Aviva should be required to honour the incorrect 
quote. Although  he wouldnt  have had much time to consider, Mr C did still opt to renew his 
policy at the increased  premium and theres nothing  to show  that he wouldnt have done  this 
if it had been clear to him from the outset  what his renewal premium  would be.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay additional compensation 
of £150 to Mr C for the trouble and upset it caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4325958