K820x#14complaint
A is concerned that Nationwide Building Societys (Nationwide) banking systems  are not 
accessible for them.
background
A has explained they are registered blind,  and because of this they make  use of screen  
reading software to navigate websites. Over  the years A has explained  theyve noticed a 
number of issues with Nationwides  systems,  including  its website, which when used with 
screen reading equipment dont function  properly.
These concerns  have  included, but arent limited to, issues with the website mark-up, the 
heading structure used on online banking, the wording used when asking for sort codes and 
payments and grammatical  mistakes with coding.  A also said there were some issues  with 
the telephone banking  system, which asked for card numbers to be typed, but didnt give 
enough time for this to be completed  and didnt offer an alternative  option. And, they raised 
concerns about  the security of Nationwides  emails which included  a postcode.
Nationwide has said when  A has raised concerns it has taken these on board, and recorded 
these for review by the relevant departments. It has said deciding,  and acting  on resolving 
any issues A had raised can take some time. But it told A it had made  changes  to its 
telephone banking system,  and corrected grammatical mistakes  on its website where it could 
at the time. In addition to this, it offered A an amount of £375 compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience  the issues, and its delays  in responding,  caused to them.
A remained unhappy with this. A explained  that failing to act on these  issues  within a 
reasonable amount of time was unfair. A said failing to make the website just as accessible 
for those  using screen readers as those customers who didnt need to use accessibility tools  
was discriminatory. And this had caused  considerable  upset an inconvenience to them.
Our investigator looked into As concerns and didnt  think  this complaint should be upheld.
She said Nationwide had taken As comments on board  and provided the feedback to the 
relevant teams.  But, she wasnt able to tell Nationwide  to make changes to its website or 
systems. Although she noted it had corrected some  grammatical errors  on its website  and 
got a new telephony system. She also said Nationwide had offered A an amount of £375 
compensation for the trouble and upset  they experienced,  and she felt that figure was 
reasonable.
A didnt  agree. They reiterated their concerns. And because of this the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
Since the case had been referred to me Nationwide has explained it has now taken further 
action to deal with accessibility concerns, including those raised by A. It said it has 
completed a review of its digital estate, recognising the need  to improve the experience of its 
members with accessibility needs. And it explained  a number of steps it has taken to make  
this happen. For example,  it said changes to its banking application had been made, and 
approved in 2018, so it was re-accredited as AA standard.
It also said significant work was in progress in respect of its website  and internet banking  
facilities, but these  were taking considerably longer due to the age of the platform. It said 
once these changes  are complete the issues raised  by A will be eliminated.
Ref: DRN45059342I sent a provisional  decision  to A and Nationwide  in August 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend on 
upholding this complaint. Ive explained  why below.
Its important to note A and Nationwide have raised a large  number of points  and provided  
substantial documentation  on this complaint. Id like to reassure  both parties I have fully 
considered all information provided  to me when  arriving at my decision.  But, in this decision 
have only referred to the information which illustrates my reasoning  for the decision Ive 
reached.
As above, A has raised a number of concerns surrounding how accessible Nationwides 
systems are. A has said they have experienced barriers in using Nationwides  systems. So 
they havent been able to enjoy a level of service that approximates the service enjoyed  by 
consumers without their disability.
Under the Equality Act 2010, organisations must take steps to remove  barriers  people face 
as a result  of their disability, as far as possible. So, this means  making reasonable 
adjustments. And what is reasonable  will depend on the circumstances of the situation.  Its 
not this services role to decide whether the Equality  Act has been breached. That would be 
for a court to decide. But, what I can consider is whether  A has been treated fairly  once they 
provided the feedback on Nationwides systems to it.
With this in mind, Ive considered the feedback A provided to Nationwide on the problems 
with its systems, and the information Nationwide has given me, showing  what it has done 
with this feedback. Having  looked  at this, Im satisfied Nationwide has taken As points on 
board. I say this because  it has provided me with documents showing the feedback  
provided, and specifying  how far along  it is in its journey to resolve the problems where  it 
considers action should be taken  to improve accessibility.
For example, it has explained  it agrees with A that the heading structure throughout online 
banking needs  to be improved, and it is working on this. But, in the meantime,  it has added 
some details to its accessibility statement  to let people know that screen reader users may 
have some difficulty with pages  because of the headings. It is also completing a larger  piece 
of work moving through Alt text issues  that have been identified through  feedback  and 
testing. And it is commissioning work  on Nationwides digital capture and how it responds to 
feedback, including complaints. So, Im satisfied Nationwide has taken As concerns 
seriously, and treated  them  fairly  by considering the feedback and looking to action a large 
amount of it.
A has raised  concerns about  the amount of time it has taken  for Nationwide  to move  forward  
with the feedback provided to it. I can see A has been providing  feedback  to Nationwide for 
some years. Some of the concerns raised  have  been resolved   for example some 
grammatical errors. But, as above a number of the points raised are still in the process of 
being dealt with. This includes a large amount of the issues raised  in respect  of online 
banking, such as problems with the coding  behind this. I can appreciate  why A wanted the 
issues resolved sooner  than they have  been.  And I think Nationwide could have done more  
in this respect.
Nationwide should  be ensuring access to its banking  services is accessible to all consumers.
Ref: DRN45059343And as above,  this should make sure that customers with disabilities enjoy, in so far as 
possible, the same experience of those  consumers without a disability. When thinking about 
disabilities such as blindness Nationwide should be able to anticipate issues that may affect  
its consumers and it should deal with these  in advance of any issues  arising. And where  it 
isnt able to do so, it should ensure that when a consumer raises these, they are dealt with I 
a timely  manner. In this instance, there are issues A raised in 2016  that are still being 
worked through by a new accessibility team Nationwide now has in place  such as ensuring
Nationwides website  survey works  alongside  screen readers. Im satisfied issues  such as 
these should have been moved forward in a timelier manner. And I can understand  how the 
lack of action  would have been  distressing  and frustrating  for A.
In addition, Nationwide has said there  have been times when it hasnt provided clear  
responses to A on what it is doing with the feedback  given. It said that whilst its followed it 
processes, it recognises it could  do more to provide responses to feedback in the future.
Having reviewed some of the correspondence  provided to A, I agree Nationwide  could have 
been clearer in respect  of what  it was doing  with As feedback. But, Im satisfied Nationwide  
has taken the feedback  on board, and is working on these areas.
A has raised  some concerns about emails from Nationwide including their postcode.  A is 
concerned this is a security risk. Nationwide has said this is a security measure it uses  to
identify that an email is legitimately from Nationwide. And it explained this to A in 
correspondence with them.  I appreciate  A doesnt  agree  that use of their postcode is secure, 
or necessary. But if A feels Nationwide has breached data protection  legislation in the way 
its used their personal data, this issue should  be raised with the Information Commissioners  
office, which considers  the use of data in circumstances like this. Its not for me to decide 
whether a security  breach  has occurred here. So, I dont intend  on requiring Nationwide to
do anything in this respect.
Nationwide has offered A an amount  of £375  compensation  for the trouble and upset they 
have experienced.  Ive thought about whether I think this is fair and reasonable in light of the 
above. And based on the information  I have seen so far I think  it is.
From looking  at the evidence provided  to me I cant see any firm evidence  to show  the 
problems A experienced have impacted or limited their access  to banking services  with
Nationwide so as to stop A using the services they needed to. And Im aware Nationwide
has provisions in place  to support customers if they need clarity on its products.
But it is clear A has experienced difficulties with using Nationwides systems, and in 
receiving feedback on what actions Nationwide has been taking. I can understand that 
needing to provide feedback on these areas and on some occasions a lack of response will 
have been both distressing and inconvenient for A. And sometimes we see this leading to 
consumers feeling  marginalised.  So, I think its fair for Nationwide  to pay A this £375, if it 
hasnt already done so. Should the problems A has experienced have caused any additional 
impact to them, A should provide evidence  of this for me to consider.
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision. A did, and explained they didnt agree 
with the outcome. These included,  but werent  limited to, the following.
Why I hadnt noted they felt repeatedly shunned, victimised, harassed  and 
discriminated against by Nationwide.  And A considered regulatory breaches had 
been caused by Nationwide;
Ref: DRN45059344A said he needs to know  the details of what Nationwide  is doing  to ensure 
accessibility requirements are met, and when it expects to have fixed the problems 
they raised.
Nationwide had an anticipatory duty under the Disability Discrimination Act 1995  
and that accessibility guidelines for websites had been available since 1999. So, it 
should have acted a lot sooner to make sure it was an accessible option for banking.  
And the age of Nationwides platform therefore should not have affected its ability or 
duty to ensure accessibility;
A had reduced  how often they engaged with Nationwide   despite them only have 
their current  account  with Nationwide. A said this was a direct result of the way they 
had been treated  by Nationwide;
That in my decision I hadnt reprimanded Nationwide for its action, and it allowed 
Nationwide to continue to shun A. And if I felt Nationwide could have dealt with the 
feedback A gave  in a more timely manner, I should have upheld the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
As detailed  in my provisional decision,  its important  to note A and Nationwide  have raised a 
large number of points  and provided substantial documentation on this complaint. Id like to 
reassure both parties I have fully considered  all information provided to me when  arriving  at 
my decision.  So, where I havent directly answered a question posed I want to reassure both 
parties that it isnt because I havent  considered it. But, in this decision I have only referred  to 
the information which best illustrates my reasoning for the decision reached.  
A has explained they feel I should have reprimanded Nationwide within  my decision.  I should 
explain this services role isnt to punish a business,  or to reprimand it. And we cant require a 
business to alter its processes, or operating  models.  I say this because  we arent the 
regulator of the financial  services industry.  Instead,  it is our role to consider each individual 
case. And if we think a business hasnt acted  fairly  and reasonably  in the circumstances,  to 
decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a 
consumer has experienced.
In this case, Ive needed to consider Nationwides actions. As detailed in my provisional 
decision I do think Nationwide should have  dealt with As feedback in a timelier  manner. A 
has clearly had difficulties  using online banking, has needed to give feedback repeatedly.  
And this feedback hasnt been dealt  with in a timely manner. So, I do think Nationwide  acted 
unfairly. 
A has noted that Nationwide had an anticipatory  duty to ensure its systems were accessible.  
In my provisional decision I agreed  with A that when thinking about disabilities such  as 
blindness Nationwide  should be anticipating  issues that may affect its customers and it 
should deal with these in advance of any issues arising. And where it isnt able to do this, it 
should ensure  that when a consumer  raises these, these are dealt with in a timely manner. 
So, my provisional decision on this point doesnt  change. 
Ref: DRN45059345Ive needed to think about the impact Nationwides actions have had on A. There isnt any 
evidence of financial loss in these circumstances. But, by not acting more efficiently I do 
think this caused  distress and frustration  to A. 
Nationwide has offered an amount of £375 compensation in total for the trouble and upset A 
has experienced. So when deciding whether to ask Nationwide  to do anything  more, Ive 
needed to think  about whether the amount  it has already  offered is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for the impact  caused to A.
As detailed  in my provisional decision,  I do think £375 is a fair amount of compensation. So, 
Im not asking Nationwide to do anything more in this respect.
A has said that as a result of the problems A experienced with Nationwide, they now no 
longer feel able to visit a Nationwide  branch alone, they use online banking  facilities  less  
and often need the assistance of their mother.  A has also said they have lost control of their 
finances and been unable  to report other  issues they have encountered with Nationwide  to it. 
I dont doubt what  A has said about the impact  the accessibility issues  have had on them.  I 
can see the situation has been distressing and caused A upset. He has explained how he 
felt when facing  this problems, and I sympathise with this. But I think the amount of £375  
compensation is a reasonable  amount to recognise the previously detailed trouble and upset 
Nationwide has caused to A. 
Nationwide has said that if A wants to detail their monthly requirements to it, it will speak  to 
its specialist support team, to see what it can do to help. It has also suggested A add a 
representative to his account or has said they contact  Nationwide  seven days  a week  if 
assistance is needed. I think these options  are fair, to ensure it can help A as far as possible 
with their particular needs.
As above, A has said they have used  their account  less  because  the experience  theyve 
had with Nationwide has caused psychological  distress to them. I can see A hasnt used  the 
online banking facility  since  May 2019. But it does  appear the account is running  as it was 
prior to this. With bills being  paid out of the account   but not daily expenses such  as food 
costs. To my knowledge,  it has still been possible for A to bank with Nationwide, and 
complete necessary transactions.  And as above, Im satisfied the compensation offered to A 
for the trouble and upset  caused to them is fair and reasonable.
A has raised  concerns that Nationwide hasnt told them what is being done  to resolve the 
accessibility problems with Nationwides systems,  or when they will be resolved by. 
Nationwide has provided me information  in respect  of the feedback  A gave,  listing each 
area, and what it is doing in respect  of this. For example, it agrees with A that the heading 
structure throughout online banking needs  to be improved, and its working on this. It is also 
completing a larger  piece of work moving  through  Alt text issues that have  been  identified 
through feedback and testing. And it is commissioning work on Nationwides digital capture 
and how it responds  to feedback, including complaints. 
So, Im satisfied Nationwide  is now moving forward with the feedback  A gave. And I think  
thats enough to answer  to the complaint.  So, there isnt anything  further I recommend here.
my final decision
Nationwide Building  Society has already made an offer to pay A £375 compensation to settle 
the complaint,  and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN45059346So, my final decision is that Nationwide Building  Society should pay £375.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4505934