K820x#14complaint
H Ltd complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when voiding 
his public liability insurance policy when it made a claim under it. It wants  the policy  
reinstated, the claim dealt with and compensation.
background
H Ltd had a public liability insurance  policy with Ageas, taken out through a broker who 
completed the online application. H Ltd carried out work on a property, which  suffered a fire 
in 23 July 2014. A forensic expert said that the fire was caused by the scaffolding contractor 
placing a scaffold board  just below a floodlight. But Ageas declined the claim and voided the 
insurance policy as it said there  were  more people working for the business than permitted 
under the policy  (the limit was ten and included labour only subcontractors).  It said it would 
return the insurance premium.
H Ltd challenged this and said that Ageas  solicitors  had confirmed the business was within  
the limits  of the policy in terms of the number of people working for it, but had added that 
H Ltd hadnt checked all its contractors had the required level of insurance so the claim was 
still declined. H Ltd said this wasnt correct but couldnt provide the last renewal for the 
insurance policy of contractor C as it was no longer  trading.  H Ltd didnt think  Ageas was 
treating it fairly.
H Ltd complained  to Ageas. It said its solicitors  hadnt found that the number  of individuals  
working for H Ltd was less than ten. Ageas said that the number included labour only 
subcontractors and the policy was designed for small businesses;  if it had known the true 
size of H Ltd, it wouldnt have offered the policy at all. It said that H Ltd was now arguing  that 
some of the labour only sub contractors were actually normal subcontractors working for C, 
which would mean  they were excluded from the number of people subject to the limit. But 
the solicitors had noted that even excluding these  individuals, the number of those  working 
still exceeded ten. H Ltd said everyone couldnt  have been working for it at the same  time so 
the limit wasnt reached.
Ageas pointed out that the evidence of Cs insurance provided only covered  the period for 12 
months starting with the day after the fire. H Ltd had been asked to provide the insurance  for 
the day of the fire itself from C, but it hadnt been provided. The failure of normal 
subcontractors have insurance was a breach of the policy and Ageas said it wouldnt have 
offered the policy if it had been told the subcontractors didnt have insurance. 
In essence, Ageas said that H Ltd had misrepresented the position when taking out the 
insurance by giving an incorrect number of people  working for it (regardless of the status of 
those involved with C) and by claiming its subcontractors had insurance when there  was no 
evidence of that for C. It offered  arbitration, but H Ltd refused.
H Ltd complained  to us. The investigators view was that Ageas wasnt at fault. She said that 
the law in place  at the time the policy was taken out meant that the person taking out 
insurance had a duty of utmost good faith.  This meant that all material facts had to be 
disclosed, which was anything that the insurer would want to know  to assess  risk, or the 
policy could be voided. That said,  H Ltd was a small company and generally this service  
looked at what  was fair and reasonable  a policy should only be voided if incorrect answers 
were deliberately or carelessly given.
Ref: DRN45884712The investigator said that when the application  was completed, the first online screen made  
it clear that the policy was only designed for businesses  where  the number of persons 
working in the business didnt exceed  ten. The application then asked the number of 
employees, working directors, labour only subcontractors and trainees and the answer 
given was four. This wasnt correct as the number four only covered a director and three 
employees, and didnt cover any of the labour only subcontractors. The investigator pointed 
out that in 2013 H Ltd had nine such contractors and in 2014,  ten. She said that it was 
reasonable to expect  this answer  to be correct, and the answer given was a 
misrepresentation.
The investigator said if Ageas had been  given the right information,  she was satisfied that it 
wouldnt have offered the policy to H Ltd. It was in her view fair and reasonable to void it and 
refund the premiums.  The investigator said that she didnt  deal with the issue about Cs 
insurance as the policy was void due to the issue  of the number of people working in the 
business.
H Ltd disagreed.  It said the broker completed  the application form and felt Ageas had 
deliberately misinterpreted the information given to void the policy.  H Ltd said that the labour 
only subcontractors worked varied  hours,  but the investigator said it shouldve  checked with 
Ageas how to declare such workers as the question  about the number of people  working 
was asked. The investigator said that it was H Ltds responsibility to give correct  answers  
and seek clarification if necessary. H Ltd asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ageas isnt responsible for the actions of 
the broker.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Ageas has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The investigators 
summary of the law and this services approach is correct, so I wont  repeat it again here.
H Ltd is a commercial business  and the application was completed on its behalf  by an 
insurance broker. Ive seen the journey  the application took online and in my view a 
misrepresentation was made about  the number of people working  in the business. Its clear 
that the number  of people  working in the business was a material fact Ageas needed to 
know because on the first screen  it states  that the policy  is only for small businesses with ten 
or fewer people working in the business. The term employees isnt used at this point.
H Ltd was advised by a broker, who shouldve advised about the accepted  meaning  of the 
term working in the business.  Its a much wider term than employee. In the construction  
industry, labour  only subcontractors are treated as employees for insurance purposes. The 
policy even distinguishes  between temporary  employees (who needed specific additional 
cover, not taken  out by H Ltd) and labour  only subcontractors, who are put in the same 
category as employees within  the application  form.
Ref: DRN45884713The application form goes  on to ask a critical question  how many employees,  working  
directors and labour only subcontractors  and trainees are within  H Ltd? I can understand that 
H Ltd mightve got confused about how many labour only subcontractors  to include (is it the 
full time equivalent given  the varied  hours,  the average at any one time, the total over a 
year?), but it failed  to include a single one in its answer. The answer given was four  the 
director and three employees.  But the question specifically asks about  this type of 
subcontractor and I can see from the evidence  that in 2013 H Ltd used nine and in 2014 it 
used ten. The payments  made to those  subcontractors were significant so they were clearly 
doing more than a few hours of work. The failure to include any of the labour only 
subcontractors was incorrect and careless  there was no good reason not to mention any.
In light of the above findings, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to void the policy 
and refund the premiums. The evidence shows that it wouldnt have offered the policy if the 
true position  had been disclosed as the policy wasnt designed for such businesses. 
But I do think theres enough evidence for me to address the second point raised by H Ltd 
about C. Initially H Ltd claimed the persons involved with C were  labour only subcontractors. 
When it was told about the ten person limit for those working in the business, H Ltd said that 
C was a normal subcontractor who provided  materials as well as labour.
The terms and conditions  of the policy are clear  that H Ltd must ensure all normal  
subcontractors have appropriate  insurance.  H Ltd didnt check  this in Cs case. I say this 
because H Ltd hasnt provided  any insurance details for C covering the date of the fire, and 
says that it cant get this information due to the closure of C. But H Ltd hasnt said that it had 
this information  and lost it  I think  H Ltd didnt ever check this point.  And I note that the 
director of H Ltd told the investigator that hed worked with the various  contractors for years  
and didnt check their insurance policies  he took it on trust. This is a breach of the terms 
and conditions of the policy and it was fair and reasonable  to decline the claim on this basis.  
The persons  from C were heavily involved with the work on the property and failed to notice 
the issue which led to the fire. While they didnt install the scaffolding,  given the description 
of the installation, I cant say for certain  that Cs actions didnt contribute  to the risk.
As the investigator  has found, the misrepresentation alone makes the issue about  Cs 
insurance irrelevant.  I cant say Ageas has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how its dealt 
with H Ltd. It asked relevant questions about  the situation and regularly invited  H Ltd to 
provide more evidence to enable a review. It also offered arbitration.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H Ltd to accept or reject my decision before 
13 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4588471