K821x#15Complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the proposed repairs to her property following an escape of water  
claim she made to Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) under  her home insurance 
policy.
All references to RSA include their agents.
Mrs H is being represented  by her daughter-in-law in this complaint. But for ease of 
reference Ill refer to Mrs H throughout.
Background
In June 2018 Mrs H raised a claim with RSA for an escape of water  from an underground 
pipe. There were some delays to the repair work,  which  hinged  on RSA appointing the 
appropriate contractors.  The leak was repaired in August 2018.
RSA sent a contractor  to Mrs Hs property  to assess the damage caused by the escape  of 
water. The damage  involved  the front and back gardens of the property. RSA said it would 
replace two thirds of a retaining garden wall, some decking, and the plants that had died. But 
it said the side wall including the steps up to the house wouldnt be replaced  as they showed 
signs of wear and tear before  the leak.
Mrs H disagreed with RSAs proposed scope of repairs.  Mrs H said based  on the water 
damage both the retaining wall and sidewall in the garden needed replacing entirely. Mrs H 
also said the new decking boards needed  staining,  so they matched the colour  of the 
existing boards. After  some discussion RSA offered to cash  settle the costs  of staining the 
decking. 
Mrs H was unhappy with RSAs response and complained about  the delays in the claim and 
the scope of repairs. RSA addressed Mrs Hs concerns in two separate responses,  but it has 
agreed that our service can consider both here.  In summary, RSA offered Mrs H £250  
compensation for the delays in repairing the leak. It also offered £100 for the delays in 
responding to Mrs H regarding her concerns  about the repairs.
Mrs H didnt accept RSAs  response and complained to our service.  She said that both walls  
needed replacing based on the water damage, and she hadnt yet received the cash 
settlement for staining the decking.  
Our investigator looked at everything  and recommended the complaint  be upheld.  She 
thought RSAs compensation for the delays to the claim was fair. But she found  RSA hadnt 
shown it had investigated the impact  of the water damage to either  wall  particularly to the 
foundations of the walls. So she wasnt persuaded the repairs  would be lasting and effective. 
Our investigator also said RSA failed  to identify Mrs H as a vulnerable consumer. 
In summary,  our investigator recommended RSA:
replace the whole of the retaining wall;
carry out an investigation into the impact  of water damage  on the side wall and steps;
reinstate the decking without further  delay;
pay Mrs H an additional £200  compensation on top of the £100 offered for the 
second part of the complaint
Ref: DRN46973902Mrs H accepted our investigators findings. RSA disagreed with our investigator. It said the 
contractor who assessed the damage  was experienced and it had no reason to believe the 
repairs would not be efficient and lasting. It said it hadnt found evidence  of water damage  in 
the vicinity of the steps, and that our investigator hadnt provided sufficient evidence  to 
contradict its contractor. RSA said it had asked its contractor to reinstate the decking. But it 
disagreed with the amount of compensation proposed and felt £100 was fair, as it was 
directly related to the delay in providing a decision to Mrs Hs complaint.
RSA said it needed  to refer our investigators findings to a more senior level for a response 
but didnt provide any further information. In the interest of moving the claim forward, our 
investigator referred the complaint for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint has now 
been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am upholding  this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why below.
Mrs H says the works have been on hold since she complained to our service, so where  I 
have the evidence to do so I will make a finding to move the claim forward. Where the 
evidence contradicts, I will say what I think most  likely happened.
Damage to retaining wall
Ive considered the report provided by RSAs  contractor. As RSA itself says, the report is 
basic and simply covers  the proposed repairs and what was seen. It doesnt tell me anything 
about the investigations done, or how the repairs will be effective and lasting. RSA is aware 
that when our service  investigates complaints  such as this, we require input from the 
specialists working  on the claim in order to make a fair and reasonable finding. This would 
usually take the form of a detailed report.  I appreciate RSA says the contractor who attended  
the site was experienced, but I cant rely on a contractors experience  alone.
Ive considered the photos of the retaining  wall from when the leak happened and from the 
contractors visit. Ive also considered RSAs comments on how it proposes  to repair  two 
thirds of the wall without causing additional  damage to the remaining wall. The photos of the 
leak show a significant  amount of water  stated  as at least  30 cm deep  pooling behind the 
wall. And subsequent photos  show part of the wall has bowed and cracked as a result.  But 
the evidence I have only shows what has happened  to the wall surface  above  ground. Ive 
not seen anything to show the impact to the foundations of the wall, nor how replacing  two 
thirds of it will lead to an effective and lasting repair. Being a retaining wall, I think  these 
details are important.
RSA says it can replace  two thirds of the wall as it is only moderately damaged. It proposes 
to replace the bricks with ones of identical size but says it may be difficult  to match the bricks  
as the wall was built some time ago. RSA says there would be no technical difficulty  in 
rebuilding part of the wall as long as the remaining wall is stable.
Having reviewed everything Im not persuaded that RSA has shown how replacing two thirds 
of the wall will lead to an effective and lasting repair, nor how the leak has impacted the 
foundations of the wall. Given the time that has lapsed since Mrs H first made the claim, I 
Ref: DRN46973903think RSA has had a fair opportunity to investigate  and respond to these concerns. But as it 
hasnt I think the fair and reasonable outcome  requires RSA to replace the entire  retaining  
wall to ensure an effective and lasting repair.
Damage to side wall and steps
Ive considered the photos provided by RSA of the side wall and steps.  RSA has compared 
photos from some years  before the leak with photos taken by its contractor. RSA says this 
shows the side wall and steps had signs of wear  and tear some years  before the leak.  
Having reviewed this I agree. But Ive also seen photos in RSAs  file which  show water 
seeping up through the steps and onto the adjacent driveway  during  the leak. 
Mrs H says the steps have moved continuously since  the leak happened, and theyve got 
worse since the complaint  has been  with our service. 
Having considered everything, I find it difficult to believe  there was no additional damage to 
the steps as a result of water  seeping through over a number of weeks.  I acknowledge  it will 
be difficult to determine what is wear and tear, and what  is solely down to water damage, but 
in situations such  as this, our services approach requires the uninsured  work  to be carried 
out as well to ensure  the repair is effective and lasting.  RSA says it hasnt investigated the 
side wall and steps damage as it wasnt within the contractors  remit, so I think  the fairest 
solution requires  RSA to investigate this damage, and if any of it can be attributed  to the 
water leak,  it must carry out an effective  and lasting repair  to the side wall and steps.
Replacing plants
RSA has agreed to reinstate the plants  once the repairs to the wall are done. But its caused 
a number of delays in fixing the original leak and sent the wrong contractors to the site on 
more than one occasion. Mrs H says on one occasion a carpenter  was sent to do work on 
her garden and asked  to borrow a spade. This has caused Mrs H some  distress.
Mrs H has said that her garden was her pride  and joy, and its now been ruined by the 
damage from the leak. And based  on what she has said I can understand that she would be 
worried about further work being done  by the same  contractor  on her garden.  So RSA needs 
to take this into account when reinstating  Mrs Hs garden.  Based  on the delays in repairing 
the leak and the damage  this caused,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to 
replace Mrs Hs plants on a like for like basis. If Mrs H is unhappy with the quality of the 
garden reinstatement  works, she can raise this with RSA.  And if she is not happy  with their 
response, our service can consider this as a separate matter.
Reinstating decking
RSA has also agreed to reinstate the decking without delay. Mrs H says nothing has been 
done since this was agreed. And she is still waiting for the cash  settlement agreed to re-stain 
the decking. I havent seen any evidence which explains the delay here. So I require  RSA to 
reinstate the decking as agreed, pay the agreed  cash settlement, and compensate  Mrs H for 
the time she has been without these funds.
Ref: DRN46973904Compensation
Ive considered that RSA has already compensated Mrs H £250  for the delays in fixing the 
leak, and I agree with our investigator that this seems reasonable for this part of the claim. 
Ive next considered whats happened  since, including  RSAs  delay in responding to Mrs Hs 
concerns.
Having done so, I think RSA could have  done  more to keep Mrs H informed about the 
progress of the claim. I think  that the £100  it offered for the delay in responding to Mrs Hs 
second complaint  is fair. But overall I think RSAs  actions  since reviewing the repairs  to the 
wall have caused Mrs H an additional  amount  of distress and worry. I say this because it 
hasnt progressed the parts of the claim that have been agreed,  such as the decking and the 
cash settlement. So I think our investigators recommendation of an additional £200 
compensation is fair here.  I require RSA to pay Mrs H a further £300 compensation, in 
addition to the £250 its already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc to:
-Replace Mrs Hs entire front garden retaining  wall;
-Arrange an investigation  into the impact of the water damage  on the side wall and 
steps;
-If any of the damage to the side wall and steps can be attributed to the water leak, 
RSA must accept the claim and carry out an effective and lasting repair; 
-Reinstate Mrs Hs dead plants on a like for like basis;
-Reinstate the decking if it has not already done so;
-Pay Mrs H the agreed cash settlement of £308  to cover the re-staining of her 
decking;
-Pay Mrs H an additional 8% simple  interest on this sum, from the date the payment 
was agreed (27 September 2018) to the date of settlement ;
-Pay Mrs H a total of £550 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN46973905 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs H how much has been  taken off. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4697390