K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Santander  UK Plc debited his account by £40,000  without notifying him  
and this caused his account  to become overdrawn.  He also complains  that Santander didnt do a 
chargeback for him.
To settle matters hed like Santander  to refund the £40,000, cancel  any fees associated with it 
and to rectify his credit  history.
background
I set out the background  to Mr As complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision  I also 
explained why I was intending to partly uphold  Mr As complaint. Below,  Ill again  summarise the 
background to Mr As complaint and my provisional findings, so that all relevant information  is in 
this one decision.
Mr A is helped in his complaint by his brother. Mr A hired a car from a car club (the merchant) 
and it was involved in an accident. Mr A thinks he was only required  to pay the merchant an 
excess of £1,000 because the accident wasnt his fault. In support of this he provided a statement 
signed by the third party in which the third party accepted liability  for the accident and damage to 
the hired vehicle.
Mr A discovered that the merchant debited £40,000 from his account for damage  to the car. Hes 
unhappy that Santander allowed this payment to go through without notifying him first. As a 
result his account is now significantly overdrawn. He also says he never authorised the 
merchant to deduct this amount. He says that when the merchant  asked  for his card details he 
was told this was a credit  check.  And he thought hed only pre-authorised the merchant to cover 
the £1,000  excess he thought hed agreed. He also complains that Santander  didnt do a 
chargeback.
When our adjudicator looked into the complaint she didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
my provisional decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult position Mr A finds himself in and I realise his account is 
significantly overdrawn due to the merchant debiting  his account by £40,000. I must explain 
that I can only look at whether Santander has treated Mr A fairly and I cant assist him with his 
complaint against the merchant.
Mr As initial  payment
On his complaint  form Mr A says he thought that when he put his card into the merchants 
machine and entered his PIN, he was only authorising the merchant  to deduct the agreed  
excess of £1,000.  He also says the merchant told him it was for a credit check. I have no way of 
knowing what  was discussed between  Mr A and the merchant  at the time. But I cant hold 
Santander responsible  for any incorrect information Mr A was given  by the merchant.
But when  Mr A put his card in the machine and entered his PIN he was giving the merchant 
pre-authorisation to take money from his account for any charges that would  be due under  the 
car hire agreement.  The merchant requests authorisation of a small amount and claims the full 
amount when due.
Ref: DRN47947982This type of payment is a guaranteed payment so Im satisfied that Santander  had no choice 
other than to honour the payment when  the merchant claimed it  even though that meant 
Mr As account  became significantly overdrawn.  Mr A pre-authorised the payment to the 
merchant so I cant say that Santander acted unfairly when  it didnt notify  him before it debited 
his account.
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary  code and its not a consumer right. And it isnt a 
guarantee of getting a customer  their money back either.  This is because merchants can defend 
chargebacks. However,  where theres a reasonable prospect of success wed expect a bank to 
attempt a chargeback for a customer.
Santander has told us it declined  Mr As chargeback because it didnt meet  the required criteria. 
As part of the chargeback process  Mr A provided a copy of the terms and conditions hed signed  
with the merchant. The terms and conditions state that if the vehicle is involved in an accident, 
Mr A would be charged 50% of the vehicles market value if at fault and also under  section  4 he 
would be liable for the cost of repairs and loss in value of the vehicle.
Santander said it spoke to the merchant about the accident and they were told the vehicle had 
been written off and was left un-roadworthy for four months. This resulted  in additional charges 
which the merchant  claimed from Mr A under the hire agreement.
Santander said it also spoke to the merchant about the third partys admission  of liability. 
Santander was told Mr A crashed into the back of another vehicle  and this demonstrated  he 
wasnt observing the Highway Code  because he failed  to leave enough  space  between the cars 
to allow him to brake safely.
Santander also noted that the third partys  admission  of liability was signed by the driver  
rather than his insurance company and it didnt contain  any contact details or insurance 
details for the driver.
Based on the above information Santander rejected  the chargeback. I think it was reasonable 
for Santander  to decline  the chargeback without pursuing it further. I say this for a number of 
reasons.
Firstly chargebacks can only be made in limited  circumstances. For example,  a cardholder  can 
request a chargeback  where they didnt  authorise the transaction. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint Santanders  records  show Mr A pre-authorised the merchant  to debit charges due 
under the hire agreement.  I realise Mr A says he thought he was approving only a payment up to 
the £1,000  excess but Im afraid  thats  a matter  between Mr A and the merchant. So I cant say 
Santander acted unfairly due to Mr A pre-authorising the payment.
Secondly wed only expect a business to pursue a chargeback if theres  a reasonable chance 
of success.  Based on the terms  and conditions  Mr A signed with the merchant Santander  had 
reason to believe  the merchant was properly charging Mr A for damage  to the vehicle.  I cant 
say it was unfair for Santander to come  to this conclusion based on the information it had 
available to it at the time.
Even if Santander had submitted the chargeback  I think  its more likely than not that it would 
have been defended by the merchant based  on the terms and conditions Mr A signed with the 
merchant and for the reasons I explained earlier. So I cant  say Santander acted unfairly in 
coming to the conclusion  that there was no reasonable chance of success.
Ref: DRN47947983That said, I think  Santander should  have explained the chargeback process  better  to Mr A and 
the limited grounds it had available to challenge the payment. I also think  it should have 
explained to Mr A why it rejected his chargeback request.  In view of the significant amount 
Mr As account  was debited I have  no doubt  this has been stressful  for him. To settle matters I 
think a fair and reasonable outcome is an award  of £250  compensation for the poor service  he 
received.
For the reasons above  I explained  that I was provisionally intending to partly uphold  Mr As 
complaint and to direct Santander UK Plc to pay £250 compensation to Mr A for the stress and 
anxiety caused  to him due to the poor customer service he received.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached a final decision.  
Santander confirmed that it agreed  with my provisional decision. Mr As representative  also 
provided initial comments. He said that Santander took the merchants word for what  happened  
without asking Mr A for clarification about what had happened.  And he thinks the merchant took 
more money from the account  than the car was worth. He also said he would provide further 
comments but hasnt done so.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional submissions made on Mr As behalf but I havent been 
provided with any new information that causes me to depart from the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Santander UK Plc to pay to 
Mr A £250 for the stress and anxiety caused to him due to the poor customer service he received
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject 
my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4794798