K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Ms D complain  Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds actions have caused them  to 
say Mr D owes money for his motor  insurance  policy when he doesnt.
Background
In January 2021 I issued my provisional  decision, setting out the background to the 
complaint, and what I felt was a fair outcome:
In August  2018  Ms D called Admiral to set up a policy for her son Mr D. After providing her a 
quote for a policy solely in Mr Ds name, Admiral explained they could make  the policy a 
Multi-Car policy if Ms D wanted to add her car to it. And this would reduce the premium  to 
£1,237.60 that Mr D would need  to pay.
Ms D said her existing policy wasnt due to end until June 2019. Admiral  explained Mr D 
could still benefit  from the discount, and when her policy ended,  theyd charge her for the 
time shed  be with them between June 2019 and August 2019. Ms D accepted this  and on 
the schedule issued in August 2018, it shows  this cost for adding  her car to this policy  would 
have been £31.83.
Ms D, and Mr D, agreed to this, and the policy was set up.
On 5 January  2019 Ms D called up again  as Mr D had sold the original car he had, and she 
wanted to tell Admiral  about the new car hed bought to get it on cover. Ms D had looked  
online and said shed  been quoted  around  £450  to change  the car on the policy.  But when 
speaking to Admiral  they said the cost would actually only be around  £60 to change it. Ms D 
agreed to this.
But Admiral  realised shortly afterwards they made  a mistake in which car was changed  on 
the policy  theyd changed  Ms Ds, not Mr Ds. So, they asked Ms D to get back in touch  
leaving two voicemails  and sending an email the same day. 
When Ms D called back Admirals adviser reversed  all the previous changes,  and then set 
out correcting  the issues  theyd caused. After Admiral made  these changes, Ms D was 
quoted £621.80 to change  the car on the policy  this included the removal of the Multi-Car 
discount. She says shed  checked the day before,  and only been quoted around £450-£460.  
Ms D said she wasnt prepared  to pay the £621.80 but wanted Mr Ds car insured. Admiral 
agreed to the changes  and said a complaint handler would get in touch and no payments 
would be taken before  then.
During this call it became  clear Ms D no longer had her car, which was due to be insured 
from June 2019  with Admiral, so the adviser  removed  it from the policy and explained this 
meant Mr D was now solely responsible  for the policy. The adviser also explained  there 
would be a loss of the discount as a result  of removing Ms Ds car from the policy  because  it 
was no longer a multi-car policy. This is why the new cost was higher than what Ms D had 
seen online, because the figure of £621.80 included the removal of the Multi-Car discount. 
Ms D said she wouldnt  be paying  this money.
Ref: DRN40031272Admirals complaint handler  got in touch  a few days later.  In this call Ms D made it clear she 
wasnt prepared to pay anything Admiral said she should. Ms D says shed only need  to pay 
£30/£40 between  June to August 2019 and was never told about  losing a discount on her 
car. Admiral explained this cost was to insure  her car on the multi-car policy,  but by not 
bringing her car over then shed lose the discount  on Mr Ds car. Ms D was insistent that 
shed never  been  told shed have  to pay anything more than £31.83,  so would call her bank 
and tell them  not to allow Admiral to take any payments  at all. Admiral  explained  if they 
couldnt take payment, then the policy would be cancelled for non-payment. Ms D said this 
was fine. Admiral also agreed to suspend the payments for 28 days and said at that point 
theyd be looking for £666.11  to be paid.  Ms D said she wouldnt be paying that and would 
take Admiral to the small claims court. Admiral also offered Ms D £50 compensation which 
she didnt accept.
During these calls Ms D also expressed  serious concerns that Mr Ds car wasnt  covered on 
the insurance. On the phone calls, Admiral  explained if there were any issues with him 
driving around uninsured that would  be their responsibility.
On 6 February 2019 as no payments had been received, Admiral wrote  to Mr D asking  for 
payment. A further chaser was sent on 16 February  2019  both of these letters explained if 
payment wasnt made by 26 February 2019, then Mr Ds policy  could be cancelled. As no 
payment was received, Mr Ds policy was then cancelled on 26 February 2019. Admiral  
explained Mr D owed  £666.11 for the cost of the policy.
Unhappy with all these  issues  Ms D, and Mr D, asked  us to look into things. Ms D felt that 
because the policy had been cancelled in February,  when it was due to run until August, 
some of the premium should be refunded. And due to this, she didnt think Mr D owed any 
premiums at all  so wouldnt pay the amount Admiral had asked her to pay. She also 
complained about them  trying to collect this debt. And while  we were  looking into things, 
Ms D became aware  Mr D had an accident in January  2019,  and she felt they should have 
told her about that.
A number  of complaints have been  raised  by Ms D, on behalf of Mr D, which Admiral have 
addressed at different times. In summary, Admiral said:
The amount  of £666.11 was fairly  due  as when Ms D wanted her car removed from 
Mr Ds policy  this removed the Multi-Car discount. This amounted  to around £200 of 
the change, with the remaining costs coming  as a result of putting his new car on 
cover. 
Admiral further explained the amounts were due because theyd dealt with a fault 
claim for Mr D and paid out on this. And when handling a claim if its a fault claim 
then the full premium  is payable.
They felt theyd acted  fairly in asking Mr D to repay the amounts owing.
They said they had no obligation to tell Ms D about the accident, as the policy  was 
only in Mr Ds name at that point.
Ms D wasnt told that if she didnt bring  her car over to Admiral, then shed lose the 
discount, Admiral said sorry for not telling her this, offered  £25 compensation as an 
apology.
Admiral did make  a mistake in updating Mr Ds car when Ms D called  in January 
2019, for this they offered Ms D £50.
Ref: DRN40031273Admiral also paid a further £15, for the delay in paying earlier compensation  bringing the 
total amount to £90.
Overall our investigator felt Admiral had acted fairly. Ms D, on behalf of Mr D, didnt agree 
saying they didnt think it was fair they were  expected to pay anything  when  the error was 
Admirals. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This complaint has a long history, so although Ive read through  everything  thats been  said 
by both parties, Ive focused my decision on the relevant areas.  This is part of my function  in 
resolving things informally,  but in addition I think there has been some confusion  caused as 
a result of the length of time thats  passed.
Have Admiral  done  enough in relation to Ms D not being told about the loss of multi-car 
discount
Admiral have accepted  their adviser didnt tell Ms D when she called in August 2018 about 
the loss of discount, so Ill move on to consider the impact this had on Ms D.
I do think in the call it was made  fairly clear that by bringing her car over,  Mr D would benefit 
from a reduction in premium. I accept  Ms D wasnt told this discount  would be removed if 
she didnt bring  her car over,  but I need to think about whats most likely to have  happened  if 
she had been  told.
At the time,  Ms Ds intention was to bring her car over to Admiral. So, it seems likely to me 
even if shed been told about the loss of discount  for Mr Ds car if she didnt do this, shed 
still have brought  her car over  given that was her intention at the time,  and a discount 
would be applied for doing  so.
So, although  I think Admiral didnt handle things well here,  based on what Ive seen I think 
Ms D would still be in the same position owing these  premiums. And I note Admiral offered 
£25 compensation  for this. So, overall,  I think thats fair.
Would Admiral  have  covered Mr D after their mistake
Its clear from the phone calls Ms D was very concerned about what might  have happened if 
Mr D had an accident while he was technically  not insured as a result  of Admirals error.  
Ive listened to the call Ms D made  after being asked to get back  in touch with Admiral.  Once  
the initial problem  had been  identified I do think  the case handler was very clear in 
explaining they would have still treated Mr D as insured.  Ms D said she was really concerned 
asking what would have  happened if hed been  stopped by the police  and Admiral 
explained they still would have treated him as insured and would have explained this. But as 
this didnt happen, they cant  deal in hypotheticals.
This wasnt Ms Ds only concern though.  She explained to Admiral in a later call just how 
stressed this had made her feel. Ive listened  to this and can hear very clearly  how much  its 
affected her.
Ref: DRN40031274Im genuinely sorry to hear that in her voice, because its clear it really  did have an impact. 
But, mistakes  can and do happen, so I need to consider what  Admiral did to put things right. 
They realised within the hour theyd made a mistake  with the car they were insuring. And 
before Ms D got back  to them, had contacted her on multiple occasions, asking her to get in 
touch so they could fix the problem theyd created.
So, although  I agree  Admiral  have made  an error, I think  they acted quickly  to put it right.  
And while I understand Ms D was really  concerned,  Im not sure what else Admiral  could  
have done to reassure her  as several people at Admiral told her they would have treated 
Mr D as insured and that is what I would have expected to happen in this situation. I also 
note Admiral offered  £50 compensation  and combined with Admirals actions to rectify their 
mistake I think thats fair.
Does Mr D owe the amounts Admiral have  said he does
Admiral have written to Ms D, Mr D and our service with a number of different figures for 
whats owed, and how this figure  is made up. So, for clarity and before writing  this decision I 
asked that we get an up to date figure from Admiral to explain the outstanding amount.
They replied,  and explained  Ms Ds premium of £31.83,  which was due to be paid, had in 
effect been included in the discount for Mr D. So, by Ms D not bringing her car on cover  with 
them, this led to a total amount owing of £205.25. This is the discount Mr D received for 
Ms D bringing her car on cover.
Admiral said that if you add this figure to the amount of premium owing which  came  out to 
£460.86 then the total amount  owing of £666.11 was correct. And if you then factor in the 
£25 collections fee, the amount they were asking him to pay of £691.11 was correct.
But, theyve  also said they cant explain  why letters were sent out with various different 
amounts owing. And, because of this, theyre  reducing down the amount now owing to 
£614.44.
The cost of the premiums  when  Mr D changed  his car is consistent in that Ms D said she 
was quoted around £450-£460 for the change, and the figure  actually came out to £460.86.  
So, Im satisfied Mr Ds car did generate a different risk for Admiral, and theyve charged this 
amount fairly.
Because of that Im satisfied Mr D needs to pay for the increased premiums charged  for the 
different car, plus the additional  premiums  for the loss of discount.  And, from the information 
provided, this would be more than £614.44. So, I think Admirals approach here to ask Mr D 
to pay less is fair.
Have Admiral  acted  fairly in cancelling Mr Ds policy
Cancelling someones policy  has serious  repercussions. So, Id expect Admiral to make  it 
very clear of the impact of doing  this and ensure Mr D had every  opportunity  to avoid this 
happening.
Ref: DRN40031275Ms D was representing Mr D when Admiral had the phone call with her where  the possibility 
of the policy  being cancelled due to non-payment  was first discussed. Ms D was paying the 
policy and was very clear  in saying she wouldnt pay. Admiral didnt explain the 
consequences of this on the phone   but listening to the call even if they had I dont  think 
this would have  changed Ms Ds position as she was adamant she shouldnt  have to pay 
this. The call was on 8 January 2019,  and Admiral explained theyd wait 28 days before 
asking for payment, which they did.
Admirals first letter to Mr D was dated  6 February  2019, and said he needed  to make 
payment in the next seven days.  And if he didnt do that, then the policy could be cancelled.
Admirals second letter  dated 16 February  2019 again asked for payment within the next 
seven days. But this time they explained  this was their formal  notice of the cancellation  of 
the policy if no payment  was made.  They also explained its against the law to drive  without 
insurance and explained  there could be further consequences if he drove  without insurance 
 including  saying  his car could ultimately be destroyed.
And on 26 February 2019 Admiral wrote to Mr D again, this time confirming his insurance  
had been cancelled. They  asked for the outstanding payment and repeated the information  
theyd given him in the last letter about  the potential consequences of driving without 
insurance.
Taking everything into account,  I think Admiral have acted fairly in cancelling Mr Ds policy.  
The money was properly owed as Ms D asked for Mr D to keep the insurance,  and I think  
Admiral made it clear across  the phone call and letters  that the money was owed, and there  
would be consequences  if it wasnt paid. 
Other issues
Admirals way of getting in touch to ask for the outstanding  debt to be repaid  
this is something Ms D has complained about. But, based on the information Ive 
outlined above  I do think this is something  Mr D owes.  Ive also not seen anything to 
suggest Admiral acted unreasonably  with how they asked for the debt to be repaid.
Admiral not telling Ms D about Mr Ds accident  Mr Ds accident was on 
18 January 2019. This was after Ms Ds conversation  with Admiral on 5 January 
where the only car now insured on the policy was Mr Ds. The adviser did explain 
Mr D was now solely responsible for the policy. It wasnt made  clear  this meant they 
wouldnt tell Ms D about an accident,  but as it hadnt  happened yet I wouldnt have 
expected them  to. The policy documents also confirm this is how the policy  would 
operate.
Compensation  Im aware Ms D didnt initially accept some  of the compensation 
offered. But, Admiral have told us the full amount of £90 compensation was paid in 
April 2019.
Ref: DRN40031276Summary
Admiral have made several  errors  here  but I also think  the compensation theyve paid, and 
actions taken to try and rectify the issues, have been enough. I also think its fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to reduce down the amount owing  by Mr D to £614.44  which has 
happened since I began looking  into this case. So, I wont be asking them to write off this 
amount as Ms D has suggested should happen.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt reply by the deadline  set.
Ms and Mr D replied  and didnt agree with the outcome. Ive summarised  their responses in 
my own words:
Ms D said shes only supposed to be paying  £400 or something from January, she 
shouldnt have  to pay for the extra in regards to the multi-car discount. This is 
because she was told she could  cancel at anytime, and shed only have to pay £31 
or so.
She thinks Admiral have been  totally unprofessional and her son wasnt insured for 
several hours.
Admiral made mistakes and didnt  tell her that a claim was made by her son.
And Ms D said she was devastated  and stressed  as this issue  has been going  on for two 
years.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Ms Ds strength of feeling here. And its not in doubt  Admiral made a 
mistake, but I remain of the opinion Mr D still owes £614.44 to Admiral, despite this.
I know Ms D believes she was only due to pay around £400 in January. But, this is only for 
changing the vehicle for Mr D. When Mr Ds premium was calculated  in August 2018 it 
included a discount for Ms D saying shed bring  her car over to Admiral. By Ms D not doing 
this, the discount  was removed  meaning the discounted amount (£205.25) then became 
owed. If Ms D had moved her car over to Admiral as planned, then this discount wouldnt  
have been removed, and the £205.25  wouldnt have been  owed.
In reference to the £30 or so shes mentioned,  this was £31.83  but this was the premium  
Admiral would have  charged her, if she brought her car over to them. By not doing so, she 
then wasnt charged  this premium. But, this also meant  the discount Mr D benefitted from no 
longer applied.
I have noted Ms Ds concerns about  her son not being insured. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, Im not sure what else Admiral could have done to rectify their mistake. 
They contacted Ms D several  times  within an hour of the initial  call to realise  theyd made a 
mistake  and each person she spoke to said Mr D would have been  covered if hed been  
involved in an incident which  is what  Id have expected to happen.
Ref: DRN40031277As for Admiral not telling  Ms D about  Mr Ds accident I cant  reasonably  say they did 
anything wrong  here. During a phone call Ms D had she was removed from the policy   and 
Admiral did explain this would make Mr D the policy administrator.  As Ms D had been  
removed, Admiral had no reason  to notify her about  the accident Mr D had.
I realise Ms Ds experience hasnt been  good,  but overall Im satisfied the compensation of 
£90 plus reducing  the outstanding balance to £614.44 is fair. I note Ms D has said shes  now 
been contacted by other companies on behalf of Admiral to try and collect the outstanding 
debt. I would encourage Ms D to engage  with Admiral to reach  a fair and reasonable 
repayment plan.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold  this complaint and say Admiral have acted  fairly  by paying £90 
compensation, and reducing the amount owed to £614.44.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2021.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4003127