K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited handled  his credit card 
when it identified a potentially fraudulent transaction. 
Background
Mr K has a John Lewis credit card and on 22 July 2018 tried to use it to make a payment for 
£99.99. John Lewis systems highlighted the payment as potentially  fraudulent  and blocked  
it. Mr K says he was able to complete his purchase with a different payment method. 
On 23 July 2018 John Lewis called Mr K and asked some security questions to identify him. 
Mr K didnt feel comfortable providing  private  information over the phone so the call didnt 
continue. John Lewis says it went on to write to Mr K but hes told us the letter wasnt 
received. Mr K also emailed a complaint on 23 July 2018 but didnt receive an 
acknowledgement. 
John Lewis  took the step of cancelling Mr Ks card and sending  a replacement.  Mr K has 
explained that he didnt receive  the replacement card and it later had to be reissued by 
John Lewis. 
John Lewis  acknowledged Mr Ks complaint on 19 September 2018 and has issued three  
separate responses between 17 October  2018  and 29 November 2018. John Lewis said it 
had genuine  concerns about the transaction  and that it had taken steps  to protect  Mr Ks 
account. John  Lewis also apologised for the delay acknowledging Mr Ks complaint. In total,  
John Lewis  has paid Mr K £135 to apologise for any inconvenience caused. 
John Lewis  has recently confirmed that after a card it sent Mr K wasnt received it sent a 
replacement and he is using the account.  
Mr K asked our service  to look into his complaint and it was passed  to an investigator.  He 
thought John Lewis had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything  
else. Mr K asked  to appeal, so his complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K has genuine concerns that his 22 July 2018 payment was blocked 
without good reason.  But John Lewis has explained  that its fraud prevention systems 
highlighted the £99.99  payment Mr K tried to make  as potentially fraudulent which  led to his 
card being  blocked.  
I wouldnt expect John  Lewis to go into a greater detail in terms of the reasons behind  its 
decision. Information of that nature is commercially sensitive and poses a risk to the 
business if its widely known. Ive looked  at John Lewis evidence  and systems  information 
and Im satisfied there was a genuine concern which is why the card was blocked.  
Ive reviewed the credit card terms and conditions and they allow  John Lewis to suspend 
account access if it has concerns about  fraud.  As Ive said above,  Im satisfied John Lewis 
had a genuine concern  about potential fraud which is why access  was suspended. I 
Ref: DRN49137262appreciate that the transaction was genuine,  but that doesnt mean John Lewis was wrong to 
take action in order to protect  Mr Ks account.  I havent found that John Lewis  made a 
mistake by blocking the payment or cancelling the credit card. 
John Lewis  says it aims to contact  customers in this situation within  48 hours.  In Mr Ks 
case, John Lewis called  him around  a day after the transaction was blocked.  I know  Mr K 
has concerns about the timing of the call but I havent seen anything to suggest there was a 
delay by John  Lewis. 
Mr K wasnt  willing to give out private information  to John Lewis  when it called him on 
23 July 2018.  As a result, the security verification process couldnt be completed and 
John Lewis  took the step of sending Mr K a new card. I understand Mr Ks concerns about  
giving out personal information over the phone.  But businesses have to ensure they are 
talking to the right person so private  information isnt disclosed. John Lewis asked Mr K to 
provide some identifying  information to ensure the call was being made to the correct party. 
Thats in line with John  Lewis verification process. Mr K was free to decide not to proceed  
with the call. John Lewis says it then took the step of writing to Mr K about his credit card. I 
havent been persuaded that John Lewis made  a mistake or acted unfairly by attempting  to 
verify Mr Ks identity when  it called  him.
Mr K says he didnt receive  John  Lewis follow up letter  and it hasnt retained a copy.  I know  
Mr K isnt persuaded  it was sent.  But we have been  given systems evidence  that shows 
John Lewis  did write to Mr K after it called  him on 23 July 2018.  Im satisfied, from the 
evidence available, that John Lewis did write to Mr K as it claims. 
Mr K complained on 23 July 2018. Mr K says he sent a total of five online messages about  
his complaint. But John Lewis didnt acknowledge his email until 19 September 2018.  
John Lewis  didnt respond until 17 October  2018.  John Lewis says the delay was caused  by 
a systems problem. Its a shame John Lewis cant provide any additional detail but its clear  
there was an unacceptable delay. I agree that John Lewis should have acknowledged Mr Ks 
complaint at an earlier point and responded sooner.  Im pleased  John  Lewis has apologised 
to Mr K and have taken  this issue into account  when deciding  how to resolve  this complaint. 
After Mr K complained, John Lewis sent him a replacement credit card. Mr K didnt  receive 
the replacement  card. I appreciate Mr Ks concerns about someone  intercepting  his credit 
card and using it fraudulently. But that doesnt appear to have happened in this case.  
John Lewis  has confirmed  Mr K is now actively using  a credit card and that the account is 
fully operational.  I dont  know why Mr K didnt receive the replacement  credit card. But, on 
balance, Im satisfied it was sent as John Lewis claims. I havent found  anything to show 
John Lewis  made  a mistake when  it sent replacement credit cards  to Mr K. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr K as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter.  Ive taken 
everything that both he and John Lewis have said and provided when reaching my decision. 
Having done so, I havent found anything to show John Lewis incorrectly blocked  the 
22 July 2018 payment  or that it treated Mr K unfairly  when  it called him the next day. Im 
satisfied John Lewis wrote to Mr K on 23 July 2018  as it claims and that it sent him a 
replacement card. The account terms allow John  Lewis to block  a payment and cancel a 
card where there is a concern about  fraud and I havent been  persuaded it made  a mistake 
by taking those  steps in this case.  
Ref: DRN49137263I agree  John Lewis dealt with Mr Ks complaint poorly and that it should have acknowledged 
his concerns and responded  in full sooner. John Lewis has paid Mr K a total of £135  during  
the complaint  process. Having considered everything that Mr K has told us about how the 
situation impacted  him, Im satisfied  the settlement John Lewis  has paid is fair in all the 
circumstances. As I think John Lewis has paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation, 
Im not telling it to take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4913726