K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly  declined  a claim they made on 
their commercial buildings  insurance  policy for damage caused  by subsidence.
background
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs R made  a claim on their commercial buildings insurance policy.
They say their tenant had told them about  some damage which they were concerned  could
be caused by subsidence.
Ageas declined the claim as it said the damage had happened before the policy had started
in September  2018. It said the tenant  had reported  the damage  as starting in the summer of
2018. So it said their previous  insurer  should  be responsible for the claim.
Mr and Mrs Rs previous  insurer also declined  the claim, so they complained  to Ageas.
Ageas accepts that theres likely some damage caused by subsidence. But it says the claim
isnt covered because  the damage happened before the policy  started, and this is excluded
under the policy.
Unhappy with Ageas response,  Mr and Mrs R brought the complaint to our service.
In February 2021  I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
In insurance  claims,  if an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, it is for the
insurer to show it can rely on it. The relevant term in Mr and Mrs Rs policy  says:
what is covered: Damage caused by subsidence, ground heave or landslip of the site on
which the property  described on the schedule stands but not damage:
d) which originated  before  this cover  cause was effective
Ageas report doesnt have  a lot of detail  but does say We have  noted  the damage  to the
property was first discovered  by the tenant  during summer 2018 and this predates the policy
inception. The damage also appears to have  been  getting worse since.
Mr and Mrs R say they werent told about  the damage until March  2019. But from everything
Ive seen, I think its likely the damage started  before this point. It seems that the tenant only
got in touch with Mr and Mrs R when things had continued to get worse, but the tenant told
Ageas it had started in summer 2018.  So, whilst I accept Mr and Mrs R didnt know about the
damage until later, Im satisfied that the exclusion still applies as it refers to when the
damage started,  not when  it was discovered  by the policyholder.
What I need to decide is whether the exclusion extends to any damage suffered  while  the
policy was in force, if that damage started  before the policy did. Ageas has argued that it
does and therefore the claim  shouldnt be covered. And I think this is a reasonable decision.
The exclusion covers damage which originated  before  the policy was in place. Ive taken
that to mean damage that began before the policy started. In this case, Im satisfied the
damage started before the policy  did, so I dont think Ageas needs to cover  any of the claim.
I accept the report from Ageas says the damage  has been getting  worse since the policy
started. So its arguable that Ageas could be expected to cover  any damage that happened
Ref: DRN42325902whilst it was on cover from September 2018. But I think the exclusion, and particularly the
word originate means that if the damage began before  the policy did, it doesnt need  to
cover any worsening of that damage  that might have happened  once the policy was in place.
So I think Ageas  can fairly  rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
Ive considered Ageas points about the ABI agreement not applying  in this case.  But I dont
need to make a finding here on whether it should apply or not, as Im satisfied Ageas can
fairly rely on its policy exclusion to decline the claim.
I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, but I dont think Ageas needs to
consider their claim for damage caused by subsidence.
Ageas had no further comments  to make. And Mr and Mrs R didnt respond  to the 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has added any further  information  me to me consider,  so I see no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. So Ageas  doesnt  have to 
consider Mr and Mrs Rs claim for damage  caused by subsidence.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2021.
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4232590