K820x#14complaint
Ms C has a number of complaints about  the service she received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays ). These complaints concern her personal data and her cancellation of a tech  
pack.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Ms C and Barclays so I wont repeat it in any great detail.  Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Ms C feels  Barclays  inappropriately used  and shared her personal information; that they hold 
residential addresses for her, which have no relevance or purpose,  and they won't  remove  
them. Barclays responded to her complaint  explaining they only hold address details which  
Ms C supplied, and that they accurately reported to the Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs).
Ms C also complained that Barclays charged  her for a tech pack after she cancelled  it over 
the telephone. Barclays said that they had no evidence of that call, which  is why the tech  
pack wasnt cancelled. They have since confirmed that following her complaint  it has been 
now cancelled. As such  they did not consider they had acted unfairly.
Ms C was unhappy with Barclays response and so the investigator looked  into the complaint 
but didnt think  Barclays had acted unfairly and although some things had gone wrong, 
thought Barclays  had done  enough to put them right. As Ms C didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  What I need to decide is whether 
Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Ms C. I take into account  both 
Barclays view and that of Ms C.  
My aim is to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Where  the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  I consider what is more likely to have happened in 
the light of that evidence  and the wider  circumstances of the case.  
Regarding the tech pack,  this was a product Ms C paid for to provide her with mobile  phone  
and gadget insurance benefits. Ms C took this out in January 2017, and as our investigator 
discovered, because  it was also offering an interest free overdraft facility.  From  the evidence  
supplied to this service I can see that the next contact  Ms C had with Barclays  about the 
tech pack was in March 2018.  At that time Barclays notes indicate that Ms C was talking 
about cancelling the pack but didnt actually do so. She was transferred from the initial 
advisor she spoke to, to another,  but the call was dropped and there  is no record  of her 
immediately re-contacting Barclays. It wasnt until June 2018 that Ms C spoke  again  to 
Ref: DRN42679392Barclays and the tech pack was cancelled.  I know Ms C feels she did actually cancel it much 
earlier, but the noted evidence doesnt support this view and so on balance  I dont think  it 
was cancelled until June  2018. So in regard to this aspect of Ms Cs complaint I dont think 
Barclays have done anything wrong.
With regards to the personal data Barclays are holding it appears  from the correspondence  
that this relates  to addresses Barclays recorded as Ms Cs residences  at some time. I am 
satisfied that this information  must have been  provided by Ms C and that at one time or 
another she resided there. Ms C has not been clear about whom she feels Barclays have  
shared this information with, although like our investigator I make the assumption she feels  it 
is with the CRAs. I certainly cant find any evidence of sharing information  with anyone else.
I think it is also fair to record that in a previous complaint Ms C made  in 2016, that complaint 
included the issue  of Barclays holding incorrect addresses for her, and that was settled when 
Barclays offered, and Ms C accepted, the sum of £200. I can see that Ms C has complained 
that for some of the addresses where  she resided the dates  are incorrect.  I can also see that 
Ms C has not wished to provide Barclays with an updated address. Barclays have asked Ms 
C to provide her credit file and evidence to support the incorrect address  dates,  but Ms C 
has declined  to do so.
I am left therefore to consider  the evidence that is available,  and on balance, without any 
evidence to show when  Ms C was living at those  previous addresses, I am unable to say 
that Barclays have  recorded and reported  to the CRAs incorrectly.  
So, I know Ms C will be disappointed with my decision but I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for similar  reasons. So I cant  say Barclays  have acted  
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267939