K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs T. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  Barclays Bank sold Mrs T 
the policy at the same  time that she applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs T has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Barclays Bank made Mrs T aware  that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The 
form, which Mrs T filled in and posted, has a section with one of two boxes to tick  
one is if you want PPI, the other is if you dont want it. On Mrs Ts form, the yes box 
is ticked. 
Barclays Bank didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ts 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays Bank  explained the PPI. The information  
on the form itself gave no detail of costs  and benefits, and I dont know if other 
information in a leaflet was given,  or it was clear information. So Ive had to think  
whether its likely to have made any difference if better information had been given. 
Mrs T says that, at the time,  she wasnt entitled to employee benefits if she was off 
sick, and she didnt  have savings to fall back on. So, although  I cant be sure, I dont 
think hers was a situation where  clearer information was likely to have made a 
difference to her decision to tick yes to PPI. Also it doesnt  look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
Ref: DRN47011342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701134