K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund money  that she says was taken out of 
her account  in 2017 by somebody else.
background
There are very different views about  what happened  here. Mrs H is clear she didnt take the 
money out of her account  and Lloyds is sure she did.
Given this, I hope  both parties  will accept what follows  as a brief summary  of those different 
views. All the dates  are in 2017.
Mrs H went into Lloyds to draw  some money  out of her passbook  account on 12 October;
When she got her passbook back she noticed a withdrawal of £500 on 23 September;
Mrs H says she didnt  take this money  out. She didnt visit the branch on that date  so 
she complained  to Lloyds;
The bank said Mrs H had signed a withdrawal slip  as the system used to update her 
passbook wasnt  working on 23 September;
The branch staff had checked the CCTV recording for that day  and they could see it 
was Mrs H that took the money  out. Shes  well-known  in the branch; and
Mrs H was sure she hadnt taken the money out  and she doesnt  have  clothes of the 
colours described by the Lloyds staff.
As Lloyds  wouldnt  refund  the £500, Mrs H complained  to us. In summary, she thinks  the 
branch staff are making things up to cover that one of them  took the money  out of her 
account.
One of our investigators  looked into things for Mrs H. But he thought it was most likely  that 
Mrs H had made the withdrawal herself.  So he didnt ask Lloyds to refund her the £500.
Lloyds hadnt  kept a copy of the CCTV for 23 September. So that made the investigators job 
more difficult. But he:
Thought the signature on the withdrawal slip for that day looked  like Mrs Hs; and
Could  see a cheque had been paid into Mrs Hs other  (current)  account on 23 September, 
which Mrs H had first said shed paid in on that day, but later said she hadnt (and that the 
Lloyds staff must have  altered the records to help its case).
As Mrs H was adamant she hadnt  made the £500 withdrawal her complaints been passed  
to an ombudsman to review and make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45005382I can see Mrs H is very upset by whats happened here. Thats  clear from what shes said to 
both Lloyds and to our investigator. And thats not surprising. £500 is a lot of money to go 
missing from her account. So shes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mrs H that I agree with the investigator that its most likely that 
she made the withdrawal.  I realise  thatll be a big disappointment to Mrs H so its important 
I set out why Ive come  to that same conclusion.
CCTV
Its disappointing Lloyds  didnt keep a copy of the CCTV recording of 23 September  
particularly as the bank knew Mrs H had complained about the withdrawal  in question.
I dont doubt Mrs H when  she says she doesnt  have  clothes of the colours as reported  by 
the branch staff. Its possible the quality of the CCTV recording might have led to the 
difference of views on this. But  unfortunately  I cant  say one way or the other. So I simply 
cant consider this.
withdrawal slip
I can see why Mrs H might think it odd that the withdrawal wasnt  entered  in her passbook on 
the day Lloyds  say she took the money out. Sometimes, there  are problems with banks (and 
other organisations) systems. But Id expect there to be some form of record of a withdrawal 
in any event.
And there is here. Lloyds has provided  a copy of the signed withdrawal slip. Im not a 
handwriting expert.  But I can see the signature on the slip looks quite a lot like the one the 
bank has on its records for Mrs H. And it looks similar to the one on the complaint  form 
Mrs H sent to us.
credit to Mrs Hs other (current) account
Mrs H originally confirmed to our investigator  that she had paid a cheque into her current  
account on 23 September.  She later said that wasnt the case, but rather that shed paid the 
cheque in when  shed been into the branch earlier in September  and Lloyds had changed  
its records to support its side of the story.
I dont think thats  likely. The banks  records seem right to me. They show  the cheque  was 
paid in on 23 September  and only two minutes  before the £500  withdrawal was made from 
the passbook  account.
summary
Sometimes, we dont always have all the evidence  wed like. Thats  true here  as we dont  
have the CCTV  recording.  But I think theres  enough  other evidence  for me to say its most 
likely it was Mrs H that made the withdrawal  of £500 on 23 September.
Theres no criticism  of Mrs H here.  I just think its most likely  that she made the withdrawal 
and  because  it wasnt recorded in her passbook at the time  shes  forgotten  about it. 
Thats not surprising  as she doesnt  use her passbook  account a great deal  it looks to be 
once or twice a month at most.
Ref: DRN45005383Im as satisfied as I can be the signature  on the withdrawal  slip is Mrs Hs. And the paying in 
of the cheque to the other account  (which Mrs H has said was paid in by her) on the same  
day points to Mrs H making the £500 withdrawal on 23 September as well.
I have to correct one thing the investigator  referred to in his view on Mrs Hs complaint.  He 
said it was important to be sure Mrs H had authorised the withdrawal and referred  to the 
Payment Services Regulations (PSRs).
The PSRs  dont apply  to cash withdrawals made from passbook  accounts. But the issue  of 
being sure Mrs H authorised the withdrawal is still relevant. And  as Ive set out above   the 
evidence points to that being  the case.
I realise Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what  we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Lloyds informally  can do for her. Im sorry we cant  help 
Mrs H any further on this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4500538