K821x#15Complaint
Mrs E complains Omni  Capital  Retail Finance Limited (Omni)  hasnt  accepted that a loan it 
gave her was mis-sold  by a broker acting on its behalf.
Background
Mrs E entered a fixed  sum loan agreement with Omni on 25 June 2017, under which she 
was expected to pay 48 monthly instalments of £58.08. The loan was sold by another  
company which  I will call X, to cover the cost of a lifetime licence to an English and Maths  
learning programme  for Mrs Es children.
Its common ground that the sale of the loan took place at Mrs Es home  during an evening 
visit by a representative of X. Most of the documentation, including the loan agreement,  was 
signed electronically on a laptop  or tablet  some time between  6:40pm and 7pm.  Mrs E also 
hand-signed a document titled Customer Clarification & Satisfaction Form (the satisfaction  
form).
Mrs E says she was assured during the visit that the learning  programme was cancellable if 
her family circumstances changed. She also says the representative  asked if she wanted to 
take out finance,  which  she understood to mean  a loan. She says she told the 
representative she didnt  want  a loan and wanted to pay for the course by direct debit to X. 
Mrs E says she noticed on the satisfaction  form the words  Youve  electronically  signed the 
finance agreement  (where finance  is your chosen method of payment) and queried this with 
the representative, who she says told her not to worry about this and her payment would be 
by direct debit. Mrs E says she was asked to enter her name on the laptop in order  to sign 
up to the course.
A few months later, in September  2017, Mrs E called  X to cancel the course  as she could no 
longer afford the repayments and she didnt think it was suitable for her children. She was 
told that she could  not cancel and she would need to speak to Omni.  Mrs E says she then 
contacted Omni, who explained she had a loan agreement but she might  be able to get out 
of this if X gave Omni the money back for the course.
Mrs E complained to X and to Omni  that the loan had been mis-sold. Both companies 
rejected her complaint. X said its representative didnt accept Mrs Es account of events, and 
that the terms of the purchase had been made clear at the time. It said shed had a 
cancellation period in which to change her mind  if shed wanted to, but she was now outside 
of that period. Omni  said it couldnt know what had been discussed  at the time the loan was 
sold, but Mrs E had signed to say shed understood the terms of the loan agreement and it 
couldnt uphold  her complaint.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs E referred  her complaint to this service, where it was 
looked into by an investigator. Our investigator  thought it was more likely than not that Mrs E 
had been told she could cancel at any time and the loan agreement had been set up without 
her full consent as she hadnt wanted  a loan. She cited Mrs Es consistent and detailed 
testimony as her main  reason for coming  to these conclusions. Our investigator also 
expressed some concerns over Omnis assessment of Mrs Es ability to repay her loan. She 
recommended Omni cancel the loan agreement; delete it from her credit file; refund all 
repayments with 8% simple interest, and pay Mrs E £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN40019862Omni didnt  agree with these findings.  It said the evidence that Mrs E was aware she was 
signing up for a loan agreement, and did so willingly, was overwhelming. It didnt think Mrs E 
had been consistent or detailed, and had changed  her reason for making a complaint a 
number of times. It said emails had been  sent to Mrs E on the day she signed the 
agreement, confirming shed taken out a loan, and it was doubtful  of Mrs Es claim that shed 
only found the emails  in her spam folder some months later.
Omni also said that its assessment of the affordability of the loan had been appropriate and 
had considered more variables than our investigator had believed. It said it wanted to 
support Mrs E in finding an affordable way to repay what she owed.
Ultimately no agreement  could be reached, and so the case has been passed  to me to 
review. Prior to making  a decision, I contacted  Omni to share some concerns  I had about  the 
sales paperwork. I said I was minded  to uphold Mrs Es complaint, and gave them an 
opportunity to comment. Ive considered Omnis comments  when coming to my final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has made several related complaint points. Shes  said she was not properly informed  
about the fact she was signing  up for a loan and she thought  she was just paying for the 
course monthly by direct debit. Shes also said she was told she could cancel  the learning 
programme if her circumstances changed, but this wasnt  the case. So shes  complaining 
that she was given incorrect information  about  both the course and the financial 
arrangements used to fund it.
When someone buys goods or services using the type of loan Omni has provided  in this 
case, they can make a claim  against their lender  for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the supplier  of the goods or services,  so long as certain 
conditions are met. This consumer protection is provided by Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  More generally,  where a loan of this type is sold by a credit 
broker then the lender  is responsible for incorrect information given by the broker about  the 
loan and the underlying  purchase.  This is because, due to Section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  the broker is treated as acting as the lenders agent.
What this means in this case, is that Mrs E can complain to Omni if X had made incorrect 
statements about the financial arrangements. She can also complain about  a failure by X to 
honour the terms of its agreement with her, or about incorrect  information X gave her about  
the learning programme.
Did X mislead Mrs E about the arrangements she was entering  into?
Mrs E has said Xs representative had told her she would not be taking a loan, and would 
just be paying  for the course by direct debit. Omni says the documentary evidence 
contradicts this.
Ref: DRN40019863Ive considered the evidence that exists  of the discussions  Mrs E had with X prior to her 
entering the loan agreement. There is no recording of these conversations, which means Ive 
had to rely on what Mrs E, Omni and X are saying  now, the documents which were signed  at 
the time,  and any other relevant evidence.
Omni and X have  placed quite a lot of weight on the satisfaction form. This, theyve said,  
shows that Mrs E saw and signed  a physical document  which showed clearly the 
arrangements she had agreed to, including the fact she had signed  a loan agreement. I dont 
share this view, for a number of reasons  Ill now explain.
Firstly, the satisfaction form does not, in my view, make it clear Mrs E had chosen to pay for 
the course using  a loan. The first point on the form appears to have been intended to confirm 
the method of payment.  It says:
Youve chosen  to pay for your Lifetime Licence  from X by way of: Cash / Finance
I dont think this is very clear. It leaves the possibility open that Mrs E may have chosen to 
pay by cash, which  is not inconsistent with her stated belief that she was going  to pay on a 
pay as you go basis by direct debit.  There are some further points  on the satisfaction form 
relating to the loan agreement, but they are all worded conditionally. For example, Youve 
electronically signed the finance agreement (where finance is your chosen method of 
payment) In my view Mrs E would  have viewed these points as irrelevant to her if she had 
not believed she was using a loan to pay for the course. So if she had been given incorrect 
information about these arrangements by Xs representative, I dont think the satisfaction  
form would  necessarily have cleared matters up.
Secondly, I note we have received two copies of the satisfaction form. One has come from 
X, via Omni, and the other has come from Mrs E. Mrs Es appears  to be a carbon copy of the 
original, while Xs is an office copy of the original. Remarkably, the copies are different in 
one key respect: Mrs Es copy  contains  ticks in the boxes  next to the points, whilst Xs copy  
has ticks and initials in the same boxes. The lack of initials on the carbon copy indicates 
these were added to the original at a later point, after the copy  had been separated from it.
As I understand it, X required  customer initials to appear in the boxes in question  in order  for 
a sale to be considered valid, and a tick was not considered sufficient. X, via Omni, has said 
there could  be a perfectly innocent explanation  for the two copies being different, and has 
suggested the salesperson may have  noticed  Mrs E had ticked rather than initialled in the 
boxes and then handed the original back to her to initial. If this had been  the case then I 
would have expected the salesperson to have taken steps to ensure the original and the 
copy were the same,  for example by putting the original and copy  together before  asking  
Mrs E to add her initials. Ultimately Im not convinced, having considered all of the evidence,  
that Mrs E made the alterations herself.
The conclusion Im left with is that a representative  of X added the initials after the document 
had left Mrs Es sight. This doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs E didnt read or understand 
the document. Indeed,  Mrs E accepts she did read it, and says she was then misled  by Xs 
representative as to the meaning of its contents. However, the alteration of the document  is 
concerning and something  Ive considered when thinking about the relative credibility  of 
Mrs E and Xs representative.
Ref: DRN40019864Like our investigator,  I find Mrs Es account of events credible. It has been consistent and 
relatively detailed.  The satisfaction form she signed  is also ambiguous enough that its not 
unreasonable of her to have held a belief that she was paying monthly on a cancellable pay 
as you go type arrangement. On the other  hand,  the credibility of Xs representative  is, in 
my view, called into doubt by the apparent addition of Mrs Es initials to the satisfaction form 
after the sales visit. 
On balance, Im inclined  to believe Mrs E. I think its probable she was told she could cancel 
the arrangement  at any time, and that she was not signing up for a credit agreement. Neither  
of these things  were true. It may well be the case that Mrs E typed her name into an 
electronic device, or ticked  a box, and this meant she had signed a credit agreement. Mrs E 
accepts she did type in her name but was told this was to enrol for the course. As Ive said 
above, Im inclined to believe her. Ultimately, I think Mrs E was misled by X into signing  both 
the enrolment form(s)  and the credit  agreement.
Because the relevant  legislation  means  X, in brokering the credit agreement, was acting as 
Omnis agent, Mrs E can hold Omni  responsible for what has happened.  So it needs to act to 
put things right.
Assessment of affordability
Omni has provided evidence it carried out more checks into Mrs Es ability  to repay  her loan 
than our investigator believed it had. Because I think the loan was mis-sold for other 
reasons, Ive not considered this point further and I therefore make no findings about Omnis 
affordability assessment.
Ref: DRN40019865Putting things  right
Omni should, as far as possible, put Mrs E back in the position she would  have been  in, had 
she not been misled.  Had she not been misled  then I dont think its likely  shed have  
purchased the course or signed the credit agreement. It also doesnt appear that Mrs E or 
her children derived  any benefit from the course,  so with that in mind  Omni must do the 
following:
Refund all repayments  Mrs E has made under  the credit agreement,  adding  8% 
simple interest per year* to the refunded repayments, calculated from the date Mrs E 
originally made  them,  to the date the refund is paid.
Close the credit agreement and end any current or future liability Mrs E has under it.
Remove the credit agreement from Mrs Es credit file.
Arrange for the ending of any services  and the collection of any goods supplied  
under the credit agreement, including  any device offered as an incentive to purchase. 
This must be done  at no cost to Mrs E.
Pay Mrs E £150 compensation for the distress caused by discovering  she had been 
signed up for a loan without her consent,  and the inconvenience she was put to when 
attempting to unwind it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Omni to take tax off this interest. Omni must give Mrs E a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mrs E asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint and direct Omni  Capital  Retail 
Finance Limited  to take the actions outlined in the Putting things right section of this final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001986