K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that Nationwide Building Society told her that she could reduce her 
monthly loan payments  to £43.87, but now it wants her to pay much more than that.
background 
Miss R had been paying £250.77 a month towards a personal loan. She changed her job, 
and this caused her financial problems. She contacted Nationwide in January 2018 about  
other debts,  and it offered to reduce the payments  on her loan.  It said she could make  
payments of £43.87 per month for a six month  trial period. And after that it would  rewrite  her 
loan. Shed make smaller payments, for longer.  Nationwide  said she would only need to pay 
about £43 per month for 60 months.
Miss R said Nationwide  didnt get back in touch  about her loan after six months. It spoke to 
her around the start of October 2018. And it said then it had made  a mistake when it said 
she could pay £43.87 per month for the next five years to pay off her loan. Shed have to pay 
£119 per month instead. 
Miss R said Nationwide  had paid her £200 in compensation, but she wanted the smaller 
monthly repayment instead.
Nationwide accepted it had made a mistake over the amount of Miss Rs repayments. It 
didnt think Miss R wouldve been  able to maintain her pre-existing payments of £250 when it 
spoke to her in January. But it thought it shouldve told her then that she would  need  to pay 
£119 a month,  not £43. 
Nationwide had taken  steps to make  sure that Miss R was no worse  off than if shed paid 
£119 per month.  It updated her credit  file so it looked as if shed been paying that amount, 
which meant that her arrears on the loan were  much lower.  And it said that it would show  her 
as in an arrangement  to pay since  her payments were adjusted, so it didnt look as if shed 
been ignoring this debt.
But Nationwide couldnt accept payments as low as £43. Miss R wouldnt ever pay off what  
she owed, if her payments were  that low. So it gave  Miss R two options. Either  she could 
rewrite the loan, over a longer period of time, with repayments of £119.72 per month. Or she 
could default the loan.  
Our adjudicator discussed possible ways forward on this case with Nationwide. It said it 
would increase its offer of compensation by £150.  And it would put a new five year loan in 
place for Miss R, which it said would now mean a monthly payment of £129.13.
Miss R has kept paying the requested amount of £43 per month. But shes  now been told 
shes over £2,500 in arrears. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nationwide had to reduce the repayments to only £43. She said 
this was less than the monthly interest accruing on the loan. Our adjudicator  said Nationwide  
had made  a mistake  about this. And then it had made another mistake,  by not contacting 
Miss R when her payment arrangement had run for the first six months.  
Our adjudicator said Nationwide  was reporting  these lower  payments onto Miss Rs credit  
file. From  January until July 2018,  it showed  on her credit file as an arrangement to pay, 
Ref: DRN45417252which our adjudicator said was fair, because that was what Nationwide had explained to 
Miss R on the phone when it set up the six month trial repayments for her. 
But after July 2018, our adjudicator didnt think this loan should  show as in arrears, because  
Nationwide failed to get in touch  with Miss R to rework her loan at this time.  Our adjudicator  
said Nationwide agreed to show this as a payment arrangement from July 2018 onwards,  
until a new loan was set up. It would  rework  the loan so that Miss R paid £129.13 per month, 
for 60 months. And it would report those payments in future as a normal  loan payment. 
Miss R didnt agree. She felt she was being penalised for Nationwides  mistake.  She said if 
Nationwide couldnt  accept the payments of £43 per month, then it should write off the 
arrears from 2018, and start the loan again.  
Our adjudicator contacted Nationwide to say that she didnt think that Miss R should pay 
more interest because of the banks error. So she said Nationwide should work out the 
balance as if the arrears  werent there  from January  2018 to the present.  
In March 2019, Nationwide provided  a calculation of how Miss Rs account wouldve looked  
if she had paid £119.72 per month instead  of £43.87. It offered to write off £161.87 of 
interest, which would mean  that the loan would then be as if Miss R had paid £119.72 from 
January 2018,  not the lower amount. That would  reduce her monthly payments to £125.88. 
And it would reduce the total loan debt to £5,521.68. Miss R didnt want that.
Miss R wanted a final decision from an ombudsman, so this case  was passed to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Nationwide made a mistake. I knew Miss R felt strongly that Nationwide  should honour 
its original offer to accept  £43.87 per month  for 60 months, to clear this loan. And I could 
understand why she thought that. I listened  to the call Miss R had with Nationwide, when 
it set up this plan,  and it was very clear that she wouldnt end up paying more than a few 
pounds over this amount. It gave her a number of specific  reassurances  about this in the 
final few minutes of that call. So Miss R had presumably been  planning  on this basis. 
-But our service wouldnt  normally just make Nationwide accept the smaller amount, for 
the full period of the loan, just because it made a mistake about  that. So I thought  about  
whether there was a reason to depart from that usual approach  that in this case.  And I 
didnt think there  was.
-Miss R thought Nationwide should, at least, meet her in the middle, and accept a 
repayment amount  closer  to the original  suggested  sum of £43.87. She hadnt  said she 
wouldnt be able to pay more than that amount. And she had been  able to renegotiate 
other debts. So I couldnt  require Nationwide  to accept around £43 per month now,  
because I couldnt say Miss R wasnt able to increase her payments at all.
-I also knew any reworked loan, payable over a longer period of time, was going to 
involve Miss R paying more interest. But I thought Nationwide explained  in detail the 
impact of rewriting the loan in that way to Miss R, including  that she might  end up paying 
Ref: DRN45417253more interest overall. I was satisfied Miss R was clearly  told that she would be likely to 
end up paying  more interest overall  if she rearranged this loan. 
-But Nationwide set Miss Rs repayments  too low. It then said Miss R would never  
actually pay off the loan at this amount, because she was being  charged more than that 
in interest each month. I could  see, when  Miss R spoke to Nationwide in January 2018, 
she was paying  around £61 per month  in interest, so I thought  that was right. 
-Nationwide said Miss R wouldve taken  over ten years just to pay off the amount  she 
owes with repayments of that size, even if it wasnt charging interest. Miss R owed 
£5,524.30 after her 1 January 2018  repayment and January interest charge, so again, I 
thought that was right. 
-For those reasons, I thought that a repayment amount of around  £43 per month  was 
always an unrealistic amount, and wouldnt have allowed Miss R to clear this loan. 
-Nationwide told us it shouldve set this amount at a little under £120 per month. If it had 
done that, then Miss Rs loan debt wouldve been reducing, albeit at a slower rate, while  
she was on a six month trial. Instead, the loan debt was growing, because she wasnt  
covering the interest.  And then Nationwide didnt contact Miss R once those six months 
were up. So, again,  the debt kept growing.  
-Like our adjudicator, I didnt think it was reasonable for Miss Rs overall debt to have 
increased because  of Nationwides mistake. Nationwide offered to amend the loan, and 
remove interest that Miss R paid because her monthly payments were  only £43.87, not 
closer to £120. But I looked at the figures  it has sent us, and all that achieved was to 
reduce Miss Rs loan back  down  to almost the amount she owed when she entered  into 
the six month trial. 
-I didnt think it was Miss Rs fault that this new payment was set too low. And I didnt  
think it was her fault that this had taken quite  so long to resolve. So I didnt  think  it was 
reasonable for Miss R to have spent the last eighteen months effectively paying only the 
interest on her loan. I didnt think that Nationwides proposed solution was fair, because  it 
would mean that Miss R would derive no benefit  from the monthly payments she had 
diligently continued to make. 
-I thought Nationwide had made a very serious mistake.  But Id explained I didnt think  it 
had to accept  the lower payments  now. So we needed  a different solution. I thought 
carefully about this, and I said Nationwide should waive  the interest  on Miss Rs loan 
from 1 February 2018 until it reworks her loan.  That meant  that Nationwide would have  
to recalculate Miss Rs loan as follows. 
-Miss R owed £5,524.30 after her 1 January repayment and January interest charge. I 
said Nationwide must stop charging interest at this point.  I said Nationwide  must  reduce 
Miss Rs total debt by the amount she had repaid between  the end of January  2018 and 
the date when any final decision in this case is accepted  by Miss R. 
-Then I said it must use this revised amount to recalculate her loan over a five year 
period, at the same interest rate as her previous loan. 
-I understood this would result in repayments of a little less than Nationwide  had 
suggested, probably around £110.  I knew that was much more  than Miss R was 
Ref: DRN45417254expecting to pay every month.  But Id explained why I didnt think  I could require 
Nationwide to accept  only £43.87.  
-Nationwide also offered to pay an extra £150 in compensation. But it made that offer on 
the basis of a different reworking of Miss Rs loan. Because  I was now asking it to waive  
rather more interest,  I didnt think it also had to make this additional compensation 
payment. I thought  the amount of £200 it had already paid, along with the remainder of 
my proposed remedy, provided a fair outcome  to this complaint. 
-Miss R said she wouldve refused any rewrite of her loan, and continued to pay £250 per 
month, if shed known that the rewritten loan payments  would be over £43.87. I listened 
to the calls that Miss R had with Nationwide at the time, and I thought  she was unlikely to 
have been in a position to continue to afford that. But I said that if Miss R wanted  to 
make higher payments now, Nationwide must allow her to do so without penalty. It must 
use any overpayment to reduce the term of the loan, not the monthly payment. 
-Miss Rs loan wasnt in arrears when she first spoke to Nationwide  in January 2018.  It 
later showed as substantially in arrears.  Nationwide explained  to Miss R that her loan 
would go into arrears  during the six months of her trial payments. So I thought it was fair 
that Nationwide had amended her credit file, to show  that only three months of arrears 
built up during  that time. Thats what wouldve happened if Nationwide  had asked for 
£119.72, and Miss R had paid that. 
-But, like our adjudicator, I didnt think Nationwide should  record arrears  on Miss Rs 
credit file after this period.  I understood that Nationwide had agreed to amend Miss Rs 
credit file, to show a payment arrangement from July 2018 onwards, until a new loan was 
set up. It would then show  the old loan as settled. I thought  that was a fair and 
reasonable outcome, and Nationwide should  do that too.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision.  Miss R wrote  with further questions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Miss R initially  said she didnt think this proposal  was fair. Instead she wanted to pay off the 
balance of her loan with no interest,  over 60 months, and to receive compensation. Our 
adjudicator passed that on to Nationwide, but it said no. And it confirmed  that interest was 
added to her loan each day, it hadnt all been  added  at the start. Miss R then asked for 
revised figures for rewriting her loan, which Nationwide  provided.  Miss R said she wanted  a 
minimum of £350 in compensation.
The monthly repayment amount was slightly less than Id suggested, because Miss R had 
received credit for each of the monthly  payments she was making. We gave Miss R this 
figure, and asked her to finalise her response  to my provisional decision. 
Miss R doesnt appear to have pursued her request for more  compensation at this point. She 
then said she wanted the lowest possible interest rate to be applied to her loan. Nationwide  
was currently offering loans at 2.9%,  and she thought this interest rate should be applied  to 
Ref: DRN45417255her loan. She didnt  feel she should be paying more than she owed before this arrangement 
started.
I wont ask Nationwide  to change the interest  rate on Miss Rs loan. It explained to her when 
she initially  agreed to the rewrite, how this would affect the interest on her loan,  and that she 
might end up paying more interest. Im satisfied, as I said in my provisional decision, that this 
was done clearly and fully, and that Miss R made  an informed choice to go ahead.  I dont 
think that Nationwide has to change this now.
Banks and building societies make  their own business decisions about  how much  interest  
they charge on a loan. Our service  wont usually interfere with that, and I dont think  that 
theres a reason here to depart from that usual approach. If Miss R considers she could get 
a better  interest rate on a new loan now, then she can seek to refinance this borrowing,  
either with Nationwide or elsewhere. 
But I also still dont think that Nationwide shouldve continued to charge Miss R interest 
during the time that this problem has taken to resolve.  So I still think  that Nationwide  should 
rewrite Miss Rs loan in the way I set out above,  in my provisional decision. 
Ill now make  the award I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  must waive  interest on Miss Rs loan 
from 1 February 2018 until the loan is reworked, and to amend her credit file, as set out in 
the my provisional decision section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541725