K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says NRAM  Limited (NRAM) mis-sold her a regular premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
NRAM sold Mrs B the policy when she took out a further advance on her mortgage in 
2007. The policy provided cover if Mrs B lost her or was unable to work due to accident 
or sickness for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he thought the PPI 
was presented as optional  and that Mrs B was given enough information  to understand 
what she was taking  out. 
Mrs B disagrees. She says PPI wasnt discussed and believed  it to be compulsory. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. 
NRAM needed to make it clear to Mrs B she had a choice  in taking the PPI. The loan 
was applied for over the phone and PPI was sold at the same time. Following the phone 
call the the paper work was sent out for signing and returning.
NRAM has given us a recording of the phone  call which  I have listened  to carefully. After 
going through the details  of the borrowing required the sales  advisor explains that PPI is 
optional and gives brief details of the policy with a breakdown of the costs of the extra  
borrowing with and without PPI. Mrs B is also told that there is a 30 day cooling off 
period whereby she can change her mind about  the policy and NRAM would just send 
out new paperwork without PPI. And when asked whether Mrs B wants to go ahead  with 
or without  PPI Mrs B confirms she wants to take PPI.
So it is clear to me from listening to this call that the policy  was presented  as optional 
and that Mrs B chose  to take it.
NRAM has also given us a copy of the mortgage  offer. I can see there is a separate  
section that deals with insurance. Under the heading  Optional Insurance you do not 
have to take out through Northern Rock  it says you have asked us to arrange PPI and 
gives the monthly cost.  I dont think that Mrs B wouldve thought the PPI wasnt optional 
when thats how its described in the mortgage offer. 
Ref: DRN47018422NRAM say the sale of the PPI was non-advised. This was also confirmed  at the start of 
the phone  call. What this means is that they didnt recommend  PPI to Mrs B, they just 
gave her information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that Mrs B could  make  an informed choice about buying 
PPI.
From what  I can see on the mortgage offer I think the cost of the PPI was clear, but I 
dont know if the other  information given was good  enough. In saying that I dont think 
this wouldve  made a difference because I still think Mrs B wouldve taken out the policy 
because at the time she took the further  borrowing:
She was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful  claim.
There is nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable.
Although Mrs B says she had some  sick pay from her employer and another  
insurance policy the PPI still provided her with a useful benefit and a successful  
claim wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and insurance she had in 
place and for potentially longer.  
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs B. 
I think she wouldve still taken the PPI as it suited her needs and was of value  to her. 
Which means NRAM doesnt  have  to pay back the cost of PPI to Mrs B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint  against NRAM Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701842