K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  refused  his claim for a 
refund
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75).
background
In May 2018  Mr A attended  a presentation, during  which  a 3-day  course was offered.  He 
says he was told that if two people signed  up for the course and paid on the day, the cost 
would be £1,250 per person instead  of £1,675. Mr A paid £1,250 with his Nationwide credit  
card. However, the day before he was due to attend the course,  he was told he didnt qualify 
for the discount  and was asked to pay an additional  £425 to attend the course. Mr A did not 
attend the course and wants his payment refunded.
Unable to resolve  the complaint with the supplier, Mr A contacted Nationwide  to get a refund  
under Section 75. Nationwide declined his claim,  it said Mr A had not cancelled  his 
agreement with the supplier within the 14-day cancellation  period. And it didnt think Mr A 
met the suppliers discount criteria, as the person he signed up with was neither a business 
partner, relationship partner or relative.  When Mr A complained, it maintained it had fairly 
declined his claim.
Mr A remained unhappy,  so he brought his complaint  to our service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She agreed with Nationwide that Mr A was not 
entitled to the price  discount, so did not think there  had been either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
Mr A disagreed. In summary he said he was not told anything  about the discount criteria, 
until after the 14-day cancellation  period  had already  expired, so he couldnt cancel during 
this period. He said the change of price  after the agreement was signed  is a breach of 
contract. 
Mr A requested time to provide further information, our investigator  chased this up. Mr A did 
not respond within the deadline given, so the case was passed to me to review. 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in 
October 2020. In that provisional  decision I set out why I thought  Mr As complaint should  be 
upheld, as follows:
As Mr A and the supplier  have given contradictory  accounts of what was discussed during 
the sales meeting,  Im unable to say with certainty  what was discussed  about the discount 
during the sale.  So, Ive looked at the sales paperwork to see what  was agreed about the 
course price. Mr A was given an invoice confirming he paid the discounted  rate. He was also 
provided with an offer sheet, displaying the full course price and discounted price. The 
discounted £1,250 price  is marked by an asterisk and the following details are given: 
genuine business/relationship partner/family member can be added for half price (*defined  
as having a pre-existing business,  registered  at Companies house, with both people listed as 
Directors/Shareholders, prior to the date of this offer).
The above  details are given in small print at the very bottom of the page. I dont think the 
information about the discount criteria is displayed very prominently,  so I would expect the 
Ref: DRN48086462supplier to have drawn this to Mr As attention. However, Mr A says he was not made aware 
of the criteria until the day before he was to attend  the course. And Ive seen nothing in the 
paperwork to suggest Mr A was specifically asked  about meeting this criterion  during the 
sale. I also note that in the welcome  email the supplier sent Mr A after hed signed  up for the 
course, the discount  offer is repeated,  but there  is no reference to the conditions  that needed 
to be met to qualify for the discount.  So, from what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mr A was 
made aware  of the discount criteria when he signed  up for the course.
Mr A says the discounted price, was the agreed  price and the suppliers attempt to change  
the price the day before  the course is a breach  of contract.  He also says that it was unfair 
that he was not given  the opportunity to withdraw  from the agreement  as he was not made  
aware of the discount criteria, until his 14 -day right to withdraw had expired.
As Ive already  outlined, Im not satisfied that Mr A was made aware of the discount criteria,  
before he signed  up for the course. Mr A agreed to pay the £1,250,  which is the amount  
stated on his invoice.  And from what Ive seen, the first time Mr A was made aware  of the 
conditions required to qualify for the discount was nearly three weeks after signing up for the 
course, after his 14-day  right to withdraw had already expired. In addition, I have not seen  
anything in the suppliers terms and conditions  to indicate it can subsequently vary the 
course price.
Having regard to section 75, I think the suppliers attempt to vary the price after Mr A had 
signed up for the course, amounts to a breach  of contract.  To settle  the complaint the 
supplier offered to book  Mr A on another training event, if he paid an additional £297 
registration fee, to transfer the course  entry to a family member or friend  (again plus 
registration fee) or provide an online study  programme at no additional cost. I dont think it is 
fair that Mr A should pay any additional fee. As I understand  it Mr A only signed up to the 
suppliers online portal to register for the event, he has not used any resources and he has 
gone on to complete a similar course with an alternative provider. 
In the circumstances, I think its fair for Nationwide to rework Mr As credit card as if the 
payment of £1,250 on 19 May 2018  had not been  made, and if that puts the account into 
credit-pay interest at the annual rate of 8% simple  on the credit balance  for the periods that 
the account was in credit and to refund the credit balance to Mr A.
I invited both parties to make any further  submissions before I finalised the decision. Mr A 
agreed with my decision but felt that he should be paid compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. He also said he should be compensated  for his losses.
Nationwide said it accepted my decision and offered to pay Mr A £50 compensation. I let Mr 
A know that whilst it was clear the level of service  provided by the supplier  was less than 
expected, under Section  75, Im only looking at what  Nationwide  did. I advised that having 
considered everything  I thought Nationwide had responded to his Section  75 claim and 
complaint in a timely fashion.  In addition, I said I had not seen anything to show  any 
consequential losses suffered as a result of Nationwides direct actions. In the circumstances 
I thought Nationwides offer of £50 compensation was reasonable. I gave Mr A until 16 
November 2020  to provide any further submissions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48086463Nationwide accepts my decision and Mr A has not provided any further submissions  in 
respect of me outlining  that I thought Nationwides offer of £50 compensation was fair. So, in 
the circumstances I see no reason to reach  a different conclusion.
my final decision
For the above reasons above  and those set out in my provisional  decision  my final 
decision is to uphold  this complaint. I instruct Nationwide  Building Society to;
re-work Mr As credit card account  as if the payment of £1,250 on 19 May 2018 had 
not been made, and if that puts the account in credit  pay interest  at the annual  rate 
of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account  was in credit  and 
to refund the credit balance to Mr A.
pay Mr A £50 compensation.
If Nationwide  Building Society deducts  tax from the interest element of my award  it should  
send Mr A, a tax deduction certificate so he can use it to reclaim any tax he may be entitled  
to.
Under the rules  of the Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept
or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4808646