K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited trading as Payday Express  lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
background 
Payday Express records show that a running account credit  agreement was entered  into 
with Mr A on 19 December 2011.  The drawdowns were  for specific time periods and could 
be extended. There were  a number of advances  of credit between 10 December 2009 and 
15 March 2012.  
Payday Express said we could not look into all of Mr As complaint  because the complaint 
was made  too late. On 20 March 2019 I issued a decision on this point and I decided that 
I cannot look at Mr As complaint in relation to the credit taken before 7 August 2011.  But 
I can consider that part of Mr As complaint from 7 August 2011. I refer to that earlier 
decision for the detailed reasons.
Our adjudicator had come to the same conclusion earlier  about  what he could look at and 
last November 2018 he considered the complaint. He thought  that Payday Express should 
put things right in relation to the credit advanced  to Mr A from 30 December 2011 and each 
advancement after that up to 15 March 2012.  
Payday Express agreed with our adjudicators view and carried  out some  calculations for the 
redress sums. It agreed to amend Mr As credit file. It wished to set-off the sums  it had 
calculated it owed Mr A from what it says Mr A owes to it, being the outstanding balance. 
Mr A seemed to accept  the adjudicators opinion in relation  to the irresponsible lending. He 
took issue with the fact that the earlier loans could not be included in his complaint and as 
I have explained  above, that has been  resolved by my earlier  decision on that issue.  
Mr A did not agree  with the redress  calculations  because  he disputes that there is an 
outstanding balance. 
The current  position  is that as Payday Express has agreed with our adjudicators view, and 
in view of Mr As response on the irresponsible lending point then then the natural  
conclusion is that there  is no longer a dispute about  that aspect of this complaint. 
Payday Express says that there  is an outstanding balance on the loan approved  on 
15 March 2012.  Mr A says that there is not. So Ive looked at this only. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
After some investigation into whether an outstanding balance exits our adjudicator  sent to 
Mr As representative an account  transaction list provided by Payday Express. This showed  
that Mr A hadnt fully repaid the last advance. Payday Express explained  that it had received 
two payments from Mr As debt management company of £4.50  each  on 15 June  2012  and 
10 July 2012.  The records show no further repayments. 
  
Ref: DRN46089822Our adjudicator communicated this to Mr As representative  and suggested Mr A contacted 
his debt management plan provider. The alternative  was to send us some evidence for us to 
forward on to Payday Express. We have received nothing  further  from Mr A. 
So having  thought about the evidence I have  I think its more  likely that Mr A didnt fully 
repay Payday Express what he owes it. 
The offer from Payday  Express  to put things  right in relation  to the complaint remains  and 
I agree  with it.  
putting things right
 
refund  all the interest and charges applied from 30 December  2011  onwards; and
add interest at 8% per year simple interest*  on the above  refunded  sums from the 
date they were paid,  if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr A s credit file but as these 
loans were over six years ago they may not appear on Mr As credit file anymore;
Payday Express is entitled to set off any monies arising from the redress  against any monies 
Mr A may owe it, but any unpaid charges and interest would need to be removed first and 
any payments made treated as if Mr A had paid down the principal.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest.  It must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Payday 
Express intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and Express  Finance (Bromley) 
Limited, trading  as Payday  Express, should do as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4608982