K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms C have  complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave them  incorrect 
information about their travel insurance  which meant they never could have claimed on their 
policy. So theyve said they were mis-sold this policy.
background
Mr D and Ms C have  a joint travel insurance  policy provided with their bank account. The 
policy is underwritten by UKI.
On 3 May 2017  Mr D called UKI to enquire  about  extending  the cover  for the policy he and 
Ms C had. The standard cover for multiple trips will allow  for up to 31 days per trip.
Mr D asked if they could  travel for 180 days,  return home  and then travel  for a maximum of 
180 days again.  The adviser Mr D spoke with said they could provide extended cover for a 
premium of £220.00. The adviser  explained  the extended cover would need  to be taken 
before Mr D and Ms C left their home  and started  their trip.
Mr D called UKI again on 10 May 2017  to take out the insurance hed been quoted for 
previously. The adviser  checked nothing had changed since the original quote was provided,  
and she explained  they would need to return to the United Kingdom (UK) by 6 November 
2017. Mr D specifically asked if UKI provided more cover than 180 days,  and he was told 
that 180 days  is the maximum amount of cover  that UKI will provide.
Mr D asked if he would be able to return to the UK after 180 days and then head off again for 
a further 180 days. The adviser placed  Mr D on hold during the call and returned to say as 
long as he returned to the UK by 6 November 2017, he could do this.
Mr D and Ms C took the policy  on the understanding  they were  covered for multiple  180 
day trips  providing  they returned  to the UK between trips.
Mr D and Ms C began their trip and returned  to the UK for a brief period of time before 
heading off again. They said they did this to comply with the requirement set out to them  
when the policy was taken out. 
In April 2018 Mr D spoke  with UKIs  adviser  who let them know  the policy extension they had 
in place was due to expire  on 9 May 2018. The adviser asked if they were going away  again 
and Mr D said they were out of the country  at that point.  
Ref: DRN47660662The adviser let Mr D know the policy could be renewed on the day it expired  while  they were 
away. Mr D said he wasnt  sure how long they would be away for after this point and whether 
this was needed. He asked how long the standard level of cover  would give them if the 
extended cover wasnt  renewed. It was explained the policy  would revert  back  to the 
standard 31 days cover. And this is the cover  that would be in place after 9 May 2018.
Mr D and Ms C spoke  with UKI after this point and it said it now wouldnt  be able to provide 
the extended cover as they didnt meet their definition of a UK resident.
Mr D and Ms C complained that UKI mis-sold the policy to them   and that they would have 
had no cover place  if it was needed. They wanted  UKI to refund them the cost of the policy,  
the cost they incurred  returning to the UK to meet the requirements they believed were  in 
place, and compensation for the inconvenience of this.
UKI looked at what happened and agreed  it had given  incorrect  information about  the policy. 
And it had said cover  would have  been  in place for longer than it normally would for this type 
of policy. It said it would have honoured the cover  for the whole period  as it had said it had 
agreed to provide this level of cover when  the policy taken out. But it couldnt agree to insure 
Mr D and Ms C now as they now didnt meet its definition of a UK resident  and this was a 
requirement of this policy.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt this was a fair outcome. Although no claim 
had been made during the time Mr D and Ms C had the policy, he was satisfied that UKI 
would have honoured a claim if one had been made.  
He felt Mr D and Ms C needed the policy and would have taken a similar one had UKI not 
been able to provide it. And based  on what hes seen, the cost of one of these was far 
greater than the cost of the UKI policy. So even when taking account of the cost of their 
flights back to the UK part way through their trip, he didnt  think theyd lost out financially as 
they had received the benefit  of a policy that met their needs for less than they might have 
paid elsewhere.
He also said he felt UKI had acted  fairly  when applying its underwriting criteria when it let 
Mr D and Ms C know it could no longer  provide the cover based  on its definition  of a UK 
resident when it realised  theyd been out of the country for more than 180 days.
Mr D and Ms C havent agreed. They feel it isnt fair for UKIs to say retrospectively that it 
would have honoured a claim had one been made.  And the fact the policy was sold with 
misinformation means they should  be awarded  what theyve asked for as they feel they 
never had the benefit of the policy. Because of this, the case  has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
and will explain  why.
It isnt disputed that UKI gave misleading information about its extended trip cover  to Mr D 
and Ms C. So what I have  considered is the impact of this, and whether it needs to do more 
as a result. And whether UKI has been fair when it said it can no longer provide Mr D and Ms 
C with the cover.
Ref: DRN47660663the sale of the trip extension 
UKI has said retrospectively that it wouldve  honoured any valid claim on the policy for the 
time Mr D and Ms C believed it was in place, as it hadnt been clear  about its time limits. The 
cost of this policy  was £220.00. I think  this is fair in circumstances and gives Mr D and Ms C 
what they wanted. 
When something goes  wrong  we normally  look to see what would have happened if the error 
hadnt occurred   looking to put the individual(s) back in the position they would have been 
in.
In this case, had UKI explained  the time limitations of its policy correctly, its likely Mr D and 
Ms C would have looked  elsewhere for the cover they needed. As they were planning a trip 
which was longer than 180 days and this is the limit of the cover  UKI said it can provide. 
Ive checked to see whether Mr D and Ms C have lost out as a result of the misinformation. 
Like our investigator,  Ive compared the cover UKI said it would have  honoured to similar 
policies that could have provided  Mr D and Ms C with at least  365 days cover (this is less 
than the total number  of days UKI provided  Mr D and Ms C with cover  for).
From what  Ive seen, I think its fair to expect that they could have paid around £800.00 for a 
policy which  matched  the majority of the benefits  UKIs was providing. The benefits that 
couldnt be matched  are better in the UKI policy than what  Ive been  able to find for this 
price. 
Had they taken  a different policy at this cost without the 180 day return requirement, Mr D 
and Ms C wouldnt have  had to pay for flights to return to the UK. So Ive considered the cost 
of the flights, which were  just under €220.00. And even  if I were  to include this cost with the 
cost of the policy, Mr D and Ms C have  still paid considerably less for the cover they wanted 
compared to if theyd taken a policy out with another provider.
Mr D and Ms C dont  think theyve had a benefit because  they didnt need to make a claim,  
and have said it cant be guaranteed UKI would  have  provided this cover. So Ive thought  
about what UKI has said as the underwriter of the policy. It has said based on the advice it 
gave at the start that it would  have  had to honour what  it offered. Again, I think this is a fair 
outcome and based on my experience, I think this is what  wouldve happened. And just 
because a claim wasnt made, it doesnt mean  the benefit of the policy being in place wasnt  
there  as they still had the security  of the insurance  in place.
Based on the cover  provided and the cost of this, I think Mr D and Ms C have benefited from 
it. And have  been  placed in a better position than they would have been, had no error 
occurred. So I dont  think its fair to ask UKI to do anymore in relation to this.
the refusal to provide  further  cover
Mr D spoke with UKI on 26 April 2018  to enquire about when his policy  would expire. And to 
see what would happen after this point. Within this call there was some  confusion about the 
cover Mr D and Ms C had in place. With a question over it being a year or 180 day policy. As 
with the previous calls this wasnt clarified and Mr D believed he had a years policy due to 
expire on 9 May 2018.
Ref: DRN47660664The adviser said she could extend  the policy during  the call or when Mr D and Ms C were 
still away but after this, they wouldnt be able to renew it. Mr D said he wasnt sure he 
wanted to at this point.  And he was only calling to confirm what cover  hed have in place 
once the extension expired. It was confirmed hed have 31 days of cover from the 9 May 
2018 to return  back to the UK. Mr D was happy with this and the call ended.
When UKI later spoke with Mr D in May 2018,  it said it realised it had given incorrect  
information about the policy extension  and the amount of time this would provide cover for  
but it would  agree to cover Mr D and Ms C in line with what it had offered and for the 
additional 31 days after the 9 May 2018. But it couldnt agree to extend the cover beyond  
this. I think this is fair as it honoured the cover it said theyd have in the call made the month 
earlier.
UKIs policy explains its cover is only available for permanent  UK residents. And UKI said as 
Mr D and Ms C had been away from the UK for more than six months, they didnt meet  its 
definition.
Based on the information about Mr D and Ms Cs travel  it is clear  they were out of the 
country for more than six months. As this means they dont meet  the requirements of the 
policy. I dont think UKI has been unfair when it said it can no longer offer them  insurance as 
this is within  the terms of the policy. So I wont be asking UKI to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr D and Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4766066