K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about One Call Insurance Services Limiteds service after he asked it 
to arrange a motor insurance policy for him.
background
Mr B was looking  for quotes  for a motor policy through a price comparison website. He then 
contacted One Call to buy a policy. Having  done  so the underwriter  sent him some  
information to confirm that the policy had been set up. Mr B noticed that some of the 
information, including the amount he initially paid for his car, the number of cars he had 
access to and his employment details weren't  accurate. He spoke with One Call about that. 
It corrected the details but said the underwriter would charge an additional premium of 
roughly £31. 
Mr B said he wasn't happy to pay the additional premium.  One Call said that he could cancel 
the policy but it would charge him a set up fee of roughly £50. Mr B wasn't happy with that. 
One Call sent him a letter saying it would cancel the policy. But it later withdrew  the set up 
charge and confirmed  that Mr B had cancelled  the policy himself.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. For ease Ive copied my provisional decision findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it. 
In bringing his complaint Mr B has made a number of detailed points. But in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the key outstanding issues.
One Call is a broker so it gathers  information  in order  to be able to sell policies to consumers 
but it doesnt provide the cover itself or set the premium charged.  That is the responsibility of 
the underwriter,  which is a separate business.  
This dispute has arisen because, after he took out his policy,  Mr B noted that some of his 
information recorded on the policy wasn't accurate. And having corrected that, the 
underwriter charged him an additional  premium. The underwriter is responsible for the 
additional premium  so I don't intend to comment on that here. But it was One Call who 
gathered the information from which the underwriter  offered the policy  and the premium for 
that.
According to One Call when Mr B was looking for quotes online, he entered the initial 
purchase price of his car as £2,000. Mr B says that neither  he nor his wife, who helped with 
the online application, recalls being asked for the purchase price.  He added that, at the time, 
he valued his car at £2.000 so its inconceivable  that he would  say it cost the same amount 
to buy nine years earlier.
The information One Call has provided  me shows the value Mr B gave  for the purchase  price 
of his car on the price comparison website was £2,795.  But that sum doesn't match the 
£2,000 One Call recorded on its system as being the purchase price. One Call told me that 
the difference in the two sums, between £2,795  and £2,000,  was because that was the 
Ref: DRN47866842purchase price Mr B gave  when he phoned  to buy the policy.  And its sent me recordings of 
the relevant calls to support that.
Having listened  to those phone calls I don't think that One Call ever asked  Mr B for the 
purchase price of the car. It said to him that it had the current  estimated value  at £2,750,  
which Mr B corrected and said was about  £2,000. But I don't think  the purchase price is ever 
mentioned. So I don't think  Mr B did give the purchase price as £2,000.
One Call hasn't sent us the actual  screen-prints  of the information Mr B entered when 
applying for the policy on the comparison site. So Ive gone  through the process on the same 
site myself. Ive done this some time later than when  Mr B was looking for quotes; so its 
possible that the online journey isn't exactly the same now as when Mr B did it. But I've 
noted that the comparison site doesn't ask for the purchase price of the car. Instead, after 
entering the cars registration, it prepopulates the cars  estimated  current value itself. This 
might explain  why One Call initially thought  that the estimated  value was £2,795   because 
thats the estimate the comparison site gave  it  when Mr B himself  gave  the value a £2,000. 
But the comparison site currently doesn't ask for or suggest the purchase  price.
So I think its likely that the process  was the same when Mr B bought  his policy. That is the 
comparison site didn't ask him for a purchase price.  So, on balance  I think  its probable that, 
when importing the data One Calls  system has incorrectly  imported  the current  estimated 
value as also being the purchase price. And that would explain why Mr B said he can't recall 
ever being  asked for the purchase  price. It would also explain why One Call said that Mr B 
had given the purchase price and estimated price as the same  figure of £2,795. 
So, on balance, without  evidence  that the comparison site has changed the questions it 
asked or the actual  information Mr B input,  I don't think Mr B ever gave One Call the 
purchase price of his car. And in those circumstances  it wasn't right for One Call to say that 
hed done so. So I don't  think  its treated him fairly. And it's clear from Mr Bs 
correspondence that this has been a source  of trouble and upset  for him. So I think  One Call 
should pay him £100 compensation to address that.
Mr B also told One Call that it had the details of his second job wrong. Im aware that many  
insurers will see people  in different jobs as presenting different risks, so changing a drivers 
job on a policy can often  result in a change in premium.  After listening to the calls, its 
apparent that Mr B had said he had two jobs when  using  the comparison website. One Call 
read those  job titles to him when it went through the details  with him on the phone. Mr B 
agreed the details  were  right. And those were  the jobs listed  on the policy  information that 
Mr B said wasn't right. In other words, One Call accurately recorded the employment 
information that Mr B gave it. So the need to change that on the policy wasn't because  of 
anything One Call got wrong.
developments
One Call didn't agree with my provisional  decision, it said that the dispute had arisen 
because the comparison  site had automatically  input the value of Mr Bs car. It said that Mr B 
has confirmed the valuation during the call with it and it had amended  the records to the 
valuation he gave it. It said that any distress in this case had been caused  by the increase in 
premium, which  wasn't affected by the cars valuation.  It said that only the change of 
occupation affected the valuation. So it didn't  think compensation  was warranted.
Ref: DRN47866843Mr B didn't  provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to 
change my provisional findings.
One Call said that the dispute had arisen because the comparison site had automatically 
input the cars valuation . That is simply  wrong,  as explained in my provisional findings, the 
dispute arose, in part, because One Call said that Mr B had given it the incorrect purchase 
price of the car. At no point did Mr B raise a complaint about  the cars valuation.  
Mr Bs been  consistent  that he didn't recall being  asked about the cars purchase  price. And 
One Call has consistently told him that it only used the information  he had provided when he 
phoned it to take out the policy. And it was the changes to that information, including  the 
change of purchase price, that had caused the underwriter to charge an additional premium. 
But as Ive said above, at no point did One Call ask Mr B how much he paid when he bought 
the car. So its consistently  misrepresented  the position. And given that Mr B knew he hadn't  
given One Call incorrect information about the purchase price, but One Call insisted that he 
had, thats been a source of distress  and inconvenience for him. And to address that I think  it 
should pay him £100 compensation.
For completeness, Ive noted that One Call has now clarified that it was only the change in 
occupation that affected the premium. But it hadn't previously told Mr B that. And its previous 
responses to his complaint have all indicated that the change of purchase price also affected 
the amount the underwriter charged. So Im satisfied that it's fair and reasonable for 
One Call to pay Mr B the compensation  I've awarded.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint.  I require One Call Insurance  
Services Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it Mr B has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Ref: DRN47866844Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4786684