K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
background
Mr W had two instalment loans from Mr Lender  between December 2017 and July 2018:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Max Repayment Repaid
1 7 Dec 2017 £300 6m 1 Jun 2018 £136.40 28 Jun 2018
2 11 Jul 2018 £200 3m 28 Sep 2018 £103.46 Outstanding
Mr W says he was borrowing from multiple  lenders at the same  time as his Mr Lender  loans  
and using one loan to repay another. He says his credit  file would have shown three  active  
defaults and he was unable to pay priority bills.
Mr Lender says it checked Mr Ws credit file and it showed no defaults in the previous  three  
years and a credit score that was acceptable. It says it also asked Mr W for information  
about his monthly  income and expenditure and this showed he had enough disposable  
income to make the repayments. Mr Lender offered  to set up a repayment plan for the 
original contracted  amount for loan 2, meaning hed receive a £32.28 discount.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Although  she considered 
Mr Lender should  have done  better checks before approving the second loan, she was 
satisfied such checks were still likely to have  shown the repayments  were affordable.
Mr W responded to say, in summary,  that hed had other complaints upheld and that he had 
evidence of his financial circumstances at the time that showed the loans were unaffordable.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr Lender and to Mr W on 14 May 2019.  I summarise my 
findings here:
I was satisfied Mr Lender did enough  checks before it approved loan 1;
Because of the repayment history  on loan 1, I considered Mr Lender should  have 
carried out a full financial review before approving loan 2;
Such a review would  have shown Mr Ws income was around  £1,900  per month;
But it also showed his regular expenditure was at least £1,500  before  food and travel  
were included;
Mr W was also making £141 repayments  to another short-term  loan company;
Mr Ws bank  statements  also showed a significant number of transactions that 
appeared to be related to gambling;
So, I was satisfied  Mr W could not afford  to sustainably repay loan 2 and, had Mr 
Lender carried out proportionate  checks,  I considered it likely it would have found it 
was irresponsible  to lend him the money.
My provisional decision was that Mr Lender should  refund  interest and charges on loan 2 
(plus 8% statutory interest),  write off any unpaid interest  and charges and apply the refund to 
reduce the outstanding balance on loan 2. It should  pay any balance  to Mr W and remove 
negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file.
Ref: DRN44064162Mr W accepted the provisional decision.
Mr Lender responded  to say, in summary, that Mr W had set up a repayment plan to reduce 
the repayments on loan 1 as he needed  additional money available for an expensive 
purchase and had already made  another  large one-off purchase.  Mr Lender says it did make  
additional checks before  approving loan 2 because  of the issues repaying  loan 1, including 
asking Mr W whether  he considered himself  reliant  on short-term loans. In response to Mr 
Lenders further questions, Mr W said he was expecting  additional  income of about £250 per 
month due to overtime and had no other late payments or payment plans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Lender carried out extra checks when Mr W set up the repayment plan on loan 
1, and when he applied for loan 2. But I still cant conclude those checks  went far enough.
I say that because a financial review should  include verifying information  provided by Mr W, 
including income,  expenditure and short-term loans. I acknowledge Mr Lender asked about 
short-term loans, but I dont consider the question was specific enough. Indeed,  Mr W didnt 
mention short-term loans  in his response  even  though he had one outstanding. Also, Mr 
Lender didnt review Mr Ws monthly  expenditure figure, which was significantly understated.
So, although  I accept  Mr W gave plausible reasons for requesting a repayment plan, and a 
further loan, I cannot conclude  Mr Lender should  have approved loan 2. So I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr W paid on loan 2;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 2, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr W; 
Remove any negative  information about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Mr 
Lender intends to apply  the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406416