K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  Management Limited  (Hargreaves) 
provided misleading information about the value of some shares on their app, which  he 
relied upon to his detriment.
background
Mr A held a Fund and Share account with Hargreaves and he used their services on an 
execution only basis, which meant Hargreaves acted  upon the instructions Mr A gave about  
his investments and did not provide him with advice. Mr A used Hargreaves app to monitor  
the performance of his shares. Mr A says that when  he accessed the value of the shares  
they showed a profit, so he decided  to sell them.  After the shares had been sold Mr A 
realised that he had sold at a loss.
Mr A says the settings  on the app had reset due to an upgrade, which  meant that the 
information displayed  showed the daily gain/loss  and not the overall gain/loss. He was 
unaware that this change  had taken place and says there was nothing on the page  to advise 
him of this.
Hargreaves say it was for Mr A to choose  the settings on the app. The default setting on the 
app shows the total gain/loss figures and this can be altered using the filters under an icon 
headed action which appears to the top right of the screen. Hargreaves explain that the 
app displays the page chosen from last use. These  figures (daily and total gain/loss) are 
indicative only and Hargreaves advise online that customers should not base their decisions 
to trade  upon them.
Hargreaves have provided screenshots of the dealing screens that Mr A would have used in 
order to sell the shares, which display a specific quote for the shares selected and number 
required to be sold. Hargreaves say the live quote Mr A received was an improvement on 
the market price and at this point he had the option  not to proceed  with the sale.
Hargreaves have apologised for giving the wrong  information when Mr A complained about 
the information displayed on the app. Theyve  offered  Mr A £50 for this mistake.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt think Hargreaves had done anything  
wrong. She thought it was for Mr A to familiarise  himself with the screens  on the app and in 
any event she was satisfied that clear  information  was provided to Mr A about  the share 
price and total sale price, which he chose  to accept at the time. Our investigator  thought  that 
the £50 offered to compensate for incorrect information when Mr A complained was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr A remains adamant that the app was displaying misleading information. He would like 
Hargreaves to refund his loss.
As the parties do not agree, the complaint  has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47575872Ive seen the app gave  customers  the option  to view gain/loss as a total or for the day and 
these settings could  be changed manually. Mr A suggests that an upgrade had changed the 
option he was viewing, but Hargreaves say the default setting would have been the total 
gain/loss and in any event the app remembers the last setting. Even if there  was some user 
error as to the setting, Ive taken into account  that this figures  presented were indicative only. 
The live quote gave  the actual share price and given Mr A traded regularly I think he would 
have known this. So Ive reviewed the sales process on the app. 
The screenshots of the dealing screens provided  by Hargreaves show that Mr A would have 
selected the shares he wanted to sell and the amount he wanted to sell. A live quote would 
then have been generated setting out the number of shares,  the price per share  and the total 
value of that sale. Mr A then had the option of placing the deal or not proceeding with the 
sale.
Even if Mr A had misunderstood the gain/loss data on the information  pages, I consider that 
Hargreaves did give him clear information about the value of the sale of his shares. So Mr A 
was in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not to proceed with the sale 
and Ive seen  that he traded regularly.
I appreciate that Mr A did not intend  to sell at a loss but I cannot fairly say that the loss was 
attributable to any wrongdoing by Hargreaves.
Hargreaves acknowledge that when Mr A complained about the gain/loss data shown on the 
app, he was initially told there was a fault. That information was incorrect and Hargreaves 
have apologised  for giving the wrong  information.  Theyve offered £50 to compensate  for 
any distress caused. I think that was a fair and reasonable offer, its now a matter for Mr A to 
decide whether  or not to accept it. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but I wont be asking Hargreaves to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4757587