K820x#14complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain  about Santander UK Plc, regarding  information about their 
balance. 
background
Mrs L and Mr L hold several current and savings accounts with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). Some accounts are joint between Mrs L and Mr L and some are individually 
held. 
A relative  of Mrs L has a partner who works in a different part of Santanders business. 
During a conversation between Mrs L and her family member,  the family member appeared 
to know the total balance  of Mrs L and Mr Ls bank accounts. Mrs L was certain  that she had 
not told the family member this information. 
Mrs L was therefore  concerned that her family members partner had gained unauthorised 
access to her accounts, or had otherwise obtained  her balance information without her 
consent. 
Mrs and Mr L complained  to Santander.  Santander responded informally  to the complaint 
saying that it had found no evidence  of wrongdoing. 
Mrs L and Mr L contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out a view to the parties. This 
was that Santander had provided evidence that they had investigated and Santander was 
satisfied that no unauthorised access  had taken place. He therefore did not recommend that 
Santander do anything  further. 
Mrs L and Mr L were  not happy with this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to set out that I very much appreciate Mrs L and Mr Ls concern. I can 
appreciate it would have been  very worrying for the family  member  to know a total balance 
which Mrs L and Mr L had said that even they didnt know immediately.  Given that the family  
member has a partner linked to Santander, I can see why they were  worried  that the 
information had been leaked. 
Santander had provided our investigator  with evidence of all the times  the account  
information had been accessed  and details of the staff involved. Santander had also 
demonstrated that the partner of the family  member would not have access  to account 
information as she was employed in another part of the business.  
Since the investigators view we have made  further  enquiries with Santander into their 
investigation and Santander has provided more information on its investigation. 
Ref: DRN47908692Based on the information provided I am satisfied that Santander  has carried out a full and 
proper investigation  and has found  no evidence of the partner, or any other person, 
accessing Mrs L and Mr Ls account  information.  
As a result, I have seen  no evidence that Santander  has done anything wrong, and I do not 
uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr L and Mrs L, but I hope  that they can 
be reassured that we have made full enquiries, and Santander has demonstrated that it has 
investigated properly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint, and do not ask 
Santander UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4790869