K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about delays by Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS)  when 
Mr C wanted to end his Hire Purchase Contract  early. Mr C says as a result  of the delays 
arrears on his account increased  from £700 to £1,600 which  he would like written off.
background
Mr C says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with VWFS in October  2017.  The 
agreement was due to last for 48 months. Unfortunately  Mr C says he had to end the 
agreement early. And as he wasnt in a position to do this himself he gave his sister authority 
to deal with VWFS.
Mr C says he first contacted VWFS  about ending the agreement  early in June 2018. He says 
he considered  a private sale of the car but that wasnt financially viable. So in August 2018 
his sister  contacted  VWFS to arrange  to a voluntary termination (VT) of the agreement.
He says unfortunately his sister  had problems dealing with this on his behalf. Firstly as he 
had given the wrong date of birth to VWFS.  Then  there was an issue  with a password that 
Mr C says he couldnt remember  setting  up and his sister didnt have.
Mr C says VWFS ended his agreement in August 2018. As a result  his car was sold at 
auction. And he has been left with an outstanding debt of £1,672.91.  He says when he 
called to settle this amount he found he was also liable  for agents fees..
Mr C doesnt feel this is fair as he feels VWFS  allowed the arrears to increase on his 
account. And were  not helpful  in dealing with the situation. 
VWFS says that Mr Cs account was in arrears for four months  when it terminated his 
agreement. It had been unable to arrange collection of Mr Cs car as Mr C gave VWFS 
incorrect information when he set up the Third  Party Authority for his sister. This led to 
delays, as a result of which, further  arrears on the account accrued.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found that delays in resolving the end of 
Mr Cs agreement were due to Mr C providing  incorrect information.  He  also noted that the 
final liability  was considerably less than Mr C wouldve owed had he pursued  the VT option.
VWFS accepted this view but Mr C didnt.  He said he felt that VWFS  had been  deliberately  
unhelpful and allowed  arrears to accrue on his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  the same  conclusion as our 
investigator.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr Cs account  went into arrears,  that VWFS  
repossessed the car at auction or that Mr Cs sister  struggled to deal with VWFS as she 
didnt have the correct information to do so.
Ref: DRN41437912I do appreciate that Mr C was in a difficult positon  and limited  in the contact he could have 
with VWFS  himself. I also appreciate that his sister  was equally in a difficult  position trying to 
deal with someone elses affairs particularly as I assume her contact with her brother was 
also limited.
However a business  does  have to be sure it is dealing with the right person. So its not 
unreasonable for a business  to have a number of security  measures  in place to ensure that 
this is so. In this case VWFS needed  to know Mr Cs sisters date of birth. Then 
subsequently a password Mr C set up.
I have listened  to the phone call in June 2018  in which Mr C gave those details. The call 
handler made it clear  that Mr C would need to make his sister aware of the password he 
gave.
As Mr C hadnt given the correct date of birth. And his sister was unaware  of the password 
Mr C set up I dont think  it was unreasonable  for VWFS not to be able to deal with Mr Cs 
sister when  she called and was unable  to give that information.  That was to protect Mr C.
In the same  phone call Mr C asks for a VT quote, then discusses privately  selling the car 
which at that point he feels is the best option  for him. The call handler  also makes him aware  
of the possibility that VWFS repossess the car to sell at auction  with Mr C liable for the 
balance.
From that phone call there  were  several options for Mr Cs sister to pursue.  And as I 
understand it she first  sought a private  sale quote.  That unfortunately didnt work out so she 
then contacted VWFS for a VT quote.
Obviously during this time the arrears  on Mr Cs account continued to accrue. 
I think the delays  in dealing with ending  Mr Cs Hire Purchase Agreement  were down to Mr C 
not providing the correct information  for VWFS to be able to deal promptly with his sister. 
And also Mr Cs sister had to source a private sale and when this wasnt feasible  to request 
a VT quote which would  have added to the time taken. I dont think  I can reasonably say that 
VWFS was responsible for any of these  delays.
As Mr Cs account was in arrears for several months  VWFS took a commercial decision that 
it was entitled  to take to end Mr Cs agreement. I dont think that was an unreasonable  
decision. And from the information VWFS has sent us I can see it sent Mr C a number of 
letters advising him of the arrears  on his account  outlining the possible action  it could take..
The sale at auction  of Mr Cs car left an outstanding  debt of £1.672.91. The VT quote Mr C 
received in June  2018 was for £6,828  plus the outstanding arrears  at that time (£464.24).
So financially  the repossession and sale at auction have been a better  financial solution  for 
Mr C. Had VWFS delayed  repossession the arrears would have increased on the agreement  
which wouldnt have been to Mr Cs financial  advantage.
I appreciate Mr C isnt happy at being  charged  agents fees for the sale and for the arrears on 
the account. But I dont think I can reasonably ask VWFS to waive  either or all of these. I 
dont feel VWFS has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN41437913my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4143791