K820x#14complaint
Miss A is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds stopped  paying for her treatment. She 
also says the health  insurance policy she has the benefit of was mis-sold.
Miss A is being represented in this complaint by her mum,  Mrs A.
background
Miss A had the benefit  of health insurance  through Mrs As employers group healthcare 
policy. That policy  is underwritten by AXA and commenced on 1 April 2017.  
A few days  later, a claim was made on the policy because Miss A needed treatment for 
anorexia nervosa  and depression.
Miss A was first depressed in or around  2010 when  she was 14 years old and started having 
treatment for that around two years  later.  She developed an eating disorder in 2015. She 
was admitted to hospital for anorexia  and depression in the summer of 2016. Her conditions  
deteriorated and in or around February 2017  and she spent a number of weeks as an in-
patient, receiving specialist care and treatment. 
AXA initially  agreed  to cover the cost of the treatment Miss A needed in April 2017,  which  
required her to remain in hospital for a number of weeks. 
However towards the end of May 2017, AXA informed Mrs A that the conditions Miss A was 
suffering from (anorexia, depression and associated  conditions) had fallen within the 
definition of chronic conditions under the policy.  It said it wouldnt cover any inpatient costs 
connected with those conditions after 24 June 2017,  and all outpatient  costs  would cease 
with effect of 4 September 2017.
Mrs A thought that was very unfair,  and not in line with what  her employer had been told 
when AXA sold the policy to it. She says her employer was informed that mental health 
cover was unlimited,  and that AXA was made aware of Miss As ongoing medical conditions 
prior to the policy being sold, and asked no further  questions. So she complained to AXA.
Although AXA said Miss As conditions had been correctly  classed as chronic conditions, it 
accepted that it had missed an opportunity to explain how conditions like anorexia would be 
dealt with under the policy. It said it would remove the term chronic from Miss As insurance 
plan for the duration of the policy. AXA also agreed to cover  the continued costs  of treatment 
she needed for her medical conditions (subject  to the other  terms of the policy) until the 
policy expired. 
It also said, should the policy be renewed  in April 2018, the term relating to chronic 
conditions would then be applied to Miss As plan and AXA wouldnt cover anything  related 
to anorexia, depression or associated conditions.  But if Mrs As employer  chose to switch to 
a different insurance  provider once the group  policy had expired, it said the term wouldnt 
show on Miss As membership certificate.  
Mrs A didnt think that was a fair outcome so brought a complaint to us, on behalf  of Miss A.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss As complaint.  Miss A disagrees. So her complaint has 
been passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make a final decision.  
Ref: DRN43807912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont uphold  it. I 
know Miss A will be very disappointed by my decision  but hopefully  shell  understand the 
reasons why.
The policy says cover isnt provided  for ongoing,  recurring long-term treatment of chronic 
conditions. The policy defines these  as follows:
A chronic condition  is a disease, illness or injury that has one or more  of the following 
characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups or tests.
It needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it.
It continues indefinitely.
It has no known cure.
It comes  back or is likely to come back.
The policy goes on to say:
If your condition is chronic, unfortunately there  will be a limit to how long we cover your 
treatment. If we are not able to continue to cover  your treatment, we will tell you beforehand 
so that you can decide  whether to start paying  for the treatment yourself, or to transfer to the 
NHS.
So I have  to decide whether AXA has acted fairly  and reasonably when applying those terms 
when deciding to not cover the costs of any treatment  Miss A needed  for anorexia, 
depression and / or associated conditions after the policy  expired on 31 March  2018. And I 
think it has. 
Miss A had been  suffering  with her conditions for a long time prior to AXA taking the decision 
to treat her conditions  as chronic  conditions under the policy.  She needed regular treatment 
for them  sometimes staying in hospital for weeks at a time to get the medical  attention 
required - and attending various out-patient  appointments. She was discharged  from hospital  
towards the end of March 2017  but was urgently re-admitted on 4 April 2017 due to rapid 
weight loss. Whilst Miss A was in hospital  its clear  from reading the forms that the treating 
doctor was completing  for AXA that her symptoms werent significantly improving and she 
was struggling to eat meals without supervision on the ward.  He was also concerned that 
Miss As mood had deteriorated  due to some mild weight gain and had suicidal thoughts. He 
also reported that the prognosis was uncertain but he was concerned  that if Miss A was 
discharged too early  she may relapse like she did after she was discharged a few weeks 
before that.
So I think it was reasonable for AXA to say that Miss As medical  conditions  had become 
chronic. Based on the medical evidence I can see why it concluded  that the conditions would 
need on-going or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups or 
tests.
Ref: DRN43807913Miss A also says the policy was mis-sold because when the policy  was sold to Mrs As 
employer, it wasnt given  sufficient information  about  the terms relating  to mental health 
conditions. AXA accept  that it shouldve given clearer  information  about those terms  and 
when they might be classed as chronic  - when  selling the policy.  But, ultimately, it did agree 
to continue funding  any treatment Miss A needed  for depression,  anorexia and associated  
conditions until the policy expired on 31 March  2018  subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy. Even if the policy had been  mis-sold,  I think thats fair. According to Mrs A thats  what 
her employer thought  was going  to happen  when the policy was taken out with AXA in April 
2017. And thats what AXA agreed to do.
By the time the policy was due to renew  Mrs As employer wouldve known about  the terms 
relating to chronic conditions under the policy and how these affected Miss A. It couldve 
chosen to renew  the policy with AXA on that basis or look to take out a group healthcare 
policy with an alternative provider when the policy expired. I understand the policy lapsed on 
1 April 2018, and wasnt renewed. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4380791