K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited has not recorded  the state of his loan 
correctly in its reports to credit reference agencies. 
background
In September  2016 Mr D took out a loan with Oakbrook. A few months later he was made 
redundant and notified  Oakbrook that he would be unable to make his monthly payments. 
He was awaiting some  redundancy pay and he explained that he didnt want  to damage his 
credit rating. Oakbrook said it would give him breathing space, but said his credit  rating  may 
be affected by his failure to maintain the agreed  payments.
He made  several  more  monthly payments and then entered into an arrangement to pay. For 
a period he paid £1 a month, but as his situation improved this increased  to £200. 
Subsequent payments seem  to have fluctuated.
In 2018 Mr D complained  to Oakbrook  saying  that his situation  had been  wrongly  shown on 
his credit file. He said that even though he was now paying his regular monthly payment his 
loan was still being shown as having missed payments.  
Oakbrook rejected his initial complaint in May 2018 and said it had told him missing 
payments would have  an impact  on his credit rating. He made a further complaint that it had 
supplied the wrong information to the credit reference agencies. It upheld  this complaint but 
said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that it would contact the agency and ask it to 
update its records  in line with the information  Oakbrook had sent. The agency responded to 
say that it was reporting the situation  correctly.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She sent Mr D a copy of the record of his 
account held by Oakbrook which was also the information sent to the credit reference 
agencies. She said she didnt believe Oakbrook had made an error. If he thought any 
particular agency  had misreported this information that would  be a matter  he would have to 
take up with it.
Mr D didnt agree and said the months  he had paid a reduced amount were  reported as in 
arrears, but not as missed. However, the months  he made full payment were  reported as 
missed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr D sought to keep Oakbrook informed of his positon and he now feels 
frustrated that his credit file has some adverse entries. However, I dont believe I can uphold  
his complaint as I consider Oakbrook has provided  accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies.
I have looked  the business notes and I can see that it has worked with him to help when he 
fell into financial difficulties. It told him on several  occasions that his credit rating would be at 
risk due to his inability  to pay the agreed monthly sums. I appreciate he says he wouldnt 
Ref: DRN49399212have reduced his payments if he had realised the impact it would have. However,  I cannot  
safely conclude that he wasnt  told of the possible impact.
I asked Mr D to clarify which payments he felt were incorrectly  recorded  and he had done so. 
I have reviewed this against  the records kept by Oakbrook. Mr D says his payment of £1 in 
May 2017 was marked late when it wasnt.  Oakbrooks  records  show that a payment  of £1 
was taken from his account on 22 May but that bounced on the same day and was only paid 
on 8 June. This would  explain why the £1 payment is shown  as late. 
Taking another example  Mr D says the payment of £1 in August 2017  was made on time 
and shouldnt be shown  as later. However,  he entered  into a three month arrangement  in 
May to reduce  his payments to £1, but that expired in July leaving  the full payment due for 
August. Therefore  the sum due of £274.81 was marked as late. 
He has commented  on more recent items  which have happened  subsequent to his complaint 
but I dont have the business records for that period. However, I have no reason to believe it 
has made any subsequent errors. 
Having reviewed the information provided by both parties I am satisfied that Oakbrook has 
submitted correct information  to the credit  reference  agencies. If he has any concerns about  
how the agencies  reported that information that would  be matter for the agencies  and not 
Oakbrook.
On the issue of Oakbrook providing  two separate final response letters  I can see this has 
been explained by the adjudicator. Mr D raised two separate complaints about the handling 
of his loan and this merited two different responses.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 19 July 
2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4939921