K821x#15complaint
Ms S is complaining Omni Capital  Retail Finance  Limited hasnt refunded the cost of a 
course she entered into that she financed through a fixed sum loan agreement. She brings  
the claim under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA). She also doesnt think it 
should have provided the loan because it wasnt affordable. 
background
In May 2018  Ms S attended a three-day seminar with the supplier  who I shall refer to as 
IM  following which she entered  into a five-year fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
Omni to finance a business training course. The cash price  of the course  was £11,500. 
Under the terms of the finance agreement  she had to make 60 monthly payments of around 
£240. Inclusive  of interest, the total amount  shed have  to repay over the full term would 
have been £14,483.63.
In October  2018 Ms S contacted Omni to say she couldnt afford  to keep up with her monthly  
repayments. Omni sent her an income  and expenditure form to complete which she 
completed and returned.
Ms S later complained that she had been  unfairly coerced into entering into the course. In 
particularly she raised the following points:
She wasnt given the time to read the documentation to understand what  she was 
entering into. She says IM said there was a promotion whereby the first 10 people  to sign 
up would  get the course  for free. So she said everyone rushed to sign up. She says she 
later found out everyone was entered into the promotion regardless of when they signed 
up.
She says she wasnt told she was entering  into a loan provided  by a separate company.
She didnt get the benefits  of the course that she was told shed get. So she thinks  the 
course was misrepresented to her.
She was told there was a 90-day money back guarantee  on the course.  So she thought 
she could cancel  within the first 90 days and get all her money back, but this wasnt right.
Ms S wanted to cancel the course, but she was told it was a non-cancellable contract. 
Omni didnt  uphold the S75 claim. It said IM would have given Ms S an opportunity  to read 
and understand  what  she was entering  into before she entered onto the course.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint and I said the following:
Ms S is complaining that both the finance agreement and the course were mis-sold to her. 
Ive set out my thoughts on each point  separately. 
sale of the finance agreement
In considering this Ive particularly focussed on whether  it was fair for Omni to have provided 
the loan in the first place  i.e. was it affordable. 
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations,  
rules and, where appropriate,  what I consider  to have  been good industry practice  at the 
time. The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  sets out rules  about checking whether lending  
Ref: DRN42615692is affordable for consumers in the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  which, amongst 
other things,  I will take account  of. 
There isnt a set list of checks Omni needed  to do at the time.  But, in summary, CONC 
explains Omni needed to do reasonable and proportionate checks  to ensure Ms S could 
afford to repay the amount borrowed in a sustainable way. So, what  I need to think about in 
this case is whether Omni did enough  to ensure Ms S could afford  the finance before  it 
agreed to lend to her. If it didnt,  I need  to consider whether Ms S has lost out because of 
this.
The checks  Omni needed to carry out had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances 
at that time. But, in general, what would be considered a proportionate affordability  check will 
depend upon a number  of factors including  but not limited  to  the particular circumstances 
of the consumer and the amount, type and cost of credit theyre looking to take out. Omni 
needed to assess  whether  Ms S could reasonably be able to afford and keep  up with the 
monthly repayments for the duration of the loan.
It seems, in assessing  whether Ms S could afford  the loan,  Omni  has taken into account her 
declared income and her credit file. It said her credit file suggested her only outgoings were 
a 50% responsibility  towards a mortgage  and a £20 contribution  towards another  credit 
arrangement. So it said her outgoings were  around  £300. And it said her gross monthly 
income was around  £1,064. So it said it was satisfied Ms S could afford the repayments.
Ive taken Omnis comments into account,  but Im not persuaded the checks it carried out 
were sufficient. I think a particular pertinent point to note is that Ms Ss declared  annual 
income was more than £5,000 less than what  she would have to repay. I think  this should 
have alerted Omni that there was a high probability  this loan may not be affordable and I 
dont think a credit check would be enough to say the loan was affordable.  And I would have 
expected it to get a full understanding of all of Ms Ss regular monthly  outgoings. 
Omni seemed to accept this at the time because it referred the application to its underwriter. 
The underwriter has assessed the outgoings  based on what  was on her credit  file. But I dont 
think it could fairly  conclude from just looking at her credit file what  her total outgoings were,  
as there  are many outgoings that wouldnt  be recorded on a credit file (e.g. council tax and 
utility bills). And I think Omni should have asked Ms S to set out what her outgoings were 
(shed already  set out her income). But it didnt  do so. So Ive thought about what I think  
Ms S would  have told Omni had it asked  her for this information.
I note Ms S completed an income  and expenditure form in November  2018   six months 
after she took out the loan. I havent  seen anything  to show her situation had changed in that 
time. So I think this is likely  to be a fair reflection  of what Ms S would have told Omni  had it 
asked the relevant questions. This set out that Ms S had the following regular outgoings:
Mortgage - £554
Council tax - £108
Utility bills - £90
Insurance - £24
Phone bill - £50
So this suggested  her outgoing were  around  £800.  Omni has said that, as the mortgage was 
a joint mortgage,  Ms S was only liable for 50% of it. But it didnt enquire who paid the 
mortgage  i.e. whether the joint mortgagee  paid half the mortgage. And it should have done 
Ref: DRN42615693so. Ms S has told us that she was a single parent and the only person providing an income  
to the family. So it seems  Ms S was solely responsible for the repayment of the mortgage.
Omni has said Ms Ss monthly income  was £1,064. But her declared  annual income was 
£9,200. So this equates  to a monthly  income  of around £770. But, even if I was to accept the 
monthly income was £1,064, I still dont think the loan was affordable  as the loan repayment  
would have increased her monthly outgoings to around £1,040  leaving virtually  no 
disposable income to pay for her day to day living expenses.  Further to this, even if I was to 
accept Omnis argument that it only needed  to take 50% of the monthly mortgage repayment 
into account (which I dont),  it would  still only leave a disposable income of around  £200.
In addition to the above,  Ms S has said that had around £300 per month  in general 
expenses (school  costs, travelling and work-related expenses).  I dont  think  these sound 
unreasonable, given what Ms S has told us about  her personal situation. And, naturally, 
Ms S would  have incurred  other  living expenses  such as food.  Omni  should have enquired  
about this too.
Irrespective of whether  Ms S is liable  for all or 50% of the monthly  mortgage,  I dont think the 
monthly repayments were  going  to be sustainable over the full five-year term. And I think this 
would have been apparent to Omni if it had done  sufficient checks into Ms Ss personal 
circumstances when  she took out the finance agreement.
So I dont  think it was fair for Omni  to have lent this money to Ms S. I now need to think 
about whats a fair way to resolve this complaint. Given I dont think Omni should  have  
allowed Ms S to enter  into this finance agreement,  I dont think  it should  profit  from the 
agreement. But, similarly, Ms S did use the course  for a number of months before she asked 
to withdraw from it. So she did receive  a benefit from being allowed to enter  into the finance 
agreement and I think she should  have to pay something towards  it. I think  the fairest way to 
resolve this matter is for Omni  to do the following:
1.Cancel the finance agreement, waive any outstanding payments and remove  any record  
of the finance  (including any adverse markers) from her credit file; and
2.Refund any payments  Ms S made since November 2018 when she asked to cancel the 
course as she said she wasnt using it anymore.
mis-sale of the course
Ms S says she was unfairly coerced into entering into the course. Ive considered all the 
points shes raised  about  the sale of the course,  but I dont think I need to make a finding on 
this because the redress Ive recommended above  is in line with what  I would have awarded 
if I thought the course and finance agreement had been mis-sold to her. I say this because,  
Id still think it fair that Ms S pays for the usage  she did have. Im satisfied she did have 
some usage  of it. And I think the payments she made up to November 2018 is a fair 
contribution towards  this.
Omni responded to accept my provisional  decision but also said Ms S didnt make any 
further payments  since September 2018. But it said it wouldnt require her to pay October 
and November 2018s payments. Ms S didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN42615694my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. I think Omni  is acting  more  
than fairly  in choosing  to not require Ms S to pay for October and November 2018.  So I 
shant comment on that any further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Omni  Capital Retail Finance Limited  to:
1.cancel the finance agreement; 
2.waive any outstanding  payments;  and 
3.remove any record of the agreement (including  any adverse markers) from her credit  file. 
I dont award anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4261569