K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave her poor customer service 
in branch and then handled her complaint badly.
background
Mrs H has an account with Halifax.
Mrs H went into her local branch on 30 April 2018 to get her details and her sons  updated 
and to get his account closed. She says she had to wait in the queue for a considerable 
amount of time and when she got to the front she was told she would have to join a different 
queue. She says she was then told that if she didnt calm down she wouldnt be helped.  At 
that stage Mrs H accepts that she used  inappropriate language as she was very frustrated 
that shed had to wait for so long only to be told to shed have to join another queue. Halifax,  
on the other hand, says that whilst Mrs H was queueing a member of staff tried to find out 
what she needed but Mrs H ignored  them. Mrs H says that this didnt happen  no-one 
approached her whilst  she was in the queue.
Mrs H left the branch  and complained to Halifax that afternoon about the service  shed 
received. On the same day Halifax wrote a letter  to Mrs H dated 30 April 2018 about an 
incident of verbal abuse  saying that if there was a repeat  it would have no choice but to 
close her account. The letter  added that a record of the incident  and the actions taken had 
been added  to her personal file. Mrs H was unhappy that Halifax  had written to her without 
taking time to investigate. So she complained  to Halifax  about this too, and then asked for 
the CCTV to show that no-one had approached her whilst she was in the queue.
Halifax investigated Mrs Hs complaint and said that the CCTV wasnt available.  Halifax 
offered £50 in compensation  for poor customer service dealing with other issues. Mrs H was 
unhappy that Halifax paid this £50 into her account  without even asking if it was acceptable, 
and then debited  it from her account without warning. She complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint but didnt uphold it. Mrs H was unhappy 
that the incident still hadnt been  fully investigated  and that CCTV hadnt been  obtained.  So 
Ive looked into this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt an easy case given that its one persons word against anothers  as to what  
happened in branch on 30 April.  Its also an unusual case in that CCTV would have helped 
get to the bottom of what happened   thats often  not the case. Thats  because  Mrs H 
doesnt dispute the fact that she swore  at a member of staff. The issue is what  happened 
before then, and whether that makes a difference. Mrs H says she waited in a queue for 20 
minutes only to be told that she had to join another queue, whereas Halifax  says one of its 
members of staff tried to help out whilst she was queueing but Mrs H ignored them. CCTV 
would show whether or not a member  of staff approached Mrs H in the queue.
The CCTV has, unfortunately, been  deleted in this case. The same day the incident occurred 
Halifax also wrote  to Mrs H to warn her about  her behaviour. That letter was based on the 
Ref: DRN48575662evidence of the staff alone. So I can understand why Mrs H feels  this hasnt been properly 
investigated  she complained the same day and it should have been obvious given her 
complaint that CCTV could play a role. It was Halifax that deleted the CCTV, and Halifax that 
could have kept a copy or reviewed it. So I feel in this case that Halifax must take some 
responsibility for the evidence that would  have resolved this case  one way or another not 
being available.  I dont agree a proper investigation  has been done.
Ive told both parties what I think about  whats  happened  here,  and I said that I thought 
Halifax should pay Mrs H £200 in compensation for the distress  it has caused.  Mrs H also 
wants her records  amending, but I think an apology from Halifax and the outcome of this 
complaint being  recorded  is a fair outcome.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that I require  Bank  of Scotland plc to pay Mrs H £200 in compensation 
and to apologise for not investigating what happened in branch fully.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4857566