K821x#15complaint
Ms M says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two high cost,  short term loans  Mr Lender provided  to Ms M between 
August and November  2014. Ms Ms borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 15/08/2014 31/10/2014 3 £250 £170
2 28/11/2014 02/05/2015 6 £750 £350
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ms complaint and thought  that loan two shouldnt  have  
been given. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN43895692I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because  of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision  
about this lending. But this was part of the borrowing relationship Ms M had with Mr Lender.  
So, this is something  I will take into account  when considering the other  loans she took.
Our adjudicator explained, the repayments  for loan two represented a significant proportion  
of her income so there  was a significant risk that she wouldnt be able to meet  her existing 
commitments without  having to borrow again.
And having looked at the evidence  provided, I agree with our adjudicator  and I dont think 
that Mr Lender shouldve given Ms M loan two.
Ms Ms first repayment  on loan two represented  31% of the overall income  she declared to 
Mr Lender  and I feel that this shouldve alerted Mr Lender to the possibility that Ms M 
wouldnt have been able to make her repayments  sustainably and not lent. I can also see 
that after making her first repayment  that Ms M told Mr Lender that she was now in financial 
difficulty and entered  into a repayment plan.
Mr Lender say that as there was a gap between her loans, that Ms M wasnt  heavily reliant 
on Mr Lender  providing her with loans  and that she had a good repayment history.  It also 
says that during the application  process  it told Ms M that making early repayments  towards  
her loan would decrease  the interest and total repayable  and that she saved  £450  by 
doing so. It says that this further shows that the loan was affordable. But I disagree. Mr 
Lender stopped  charging Ms M interest  and fees after she told it she was in financial 
difficulty  so this saving isnt all down to her settling her loan earlier  than planned. And in 
event, this doesnt change the fact that Ms Ms first repayment was a significant proportion  of 
her income. 
 
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan two and Mr Lender should  put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms M paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN43895693remove any negative information  about loan two from Ms Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ms complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4389569