K820x#13complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a personal  loan in 2009. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr M says he wasnt aware he could take out the loan without PPI. But Ive seen a copy  of 
Mr Ms loan agreement and it said that the PPI was optional. Mr M ticked a box next to a 
statement which said, I wish to purchase Loan Protection Insurance  and signed  
underneath. This signature was separate and additional to his signature to agree to the 
credit. So, I think Lloyds made Mr M aware  the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
- although  I can understand if he cant remember this now.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the policy was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
The cost of the policy was shown. So I think Mr M wouldve  understood how much he would 
need to pay for it. Mr M cant recall if he had any sick pay and he says he didnt have any 
savings at the time, so I think he wouldve found the PPI useful if hed been unable to work. 
Mr M says he didnt  understand what PPI was. I think Its possible the information Lloyds 
gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But he chose to take it out - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But Lloyds 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN43319022To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr M any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr M the extra  he paid each  month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4331902