K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy about  Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) decision to decline their 
drainage system claim under their home  buildings insurance policy.
Ill refer to Allianz at all times but this includes agents and administrators  acting  on its behalf.
background
Mr and Mrs Qs garden  was saturated around  their septic tank. They appointed a contractor 
(T) to inspect the problem. T found  the drainage system fed into the septic  tank and the tank 
discharged into a drainage field. T concluded the drainage field had failed and that meant 
the septic tank wasnt discharging as it should.
Mr and Mrs Qs representative made a claim to Allianz for the cost of putting right the 
drainage field.  Allianz reviewed Ts report and said there was no cover. Mr and Mrs Qs 
representative didnt  accept this so Allianz arranged for a contractor (A) to look at the 
drainage system.
A said the drainage field hadnt suffered accidental damage and there were no defects with 
the drainage system running into the septic tank. At the time of As inspection, the tank had 
been emptied  and the weather was dry. A observed no problem  with the tank discharging. It 
concluded the drainage  field didnt function properly  under wet weather conditions.  
Allianz said the policy covered certain  accidental  drainage problems  but only if the damage 
happened suddenly  and was visible. It didnt think that had happened in this case,  so Allianz  
said it was right to decline  the claim. Mr and Mrs Q brought their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Allianz had declined the claim fairly 
because there hadnt  been any damage  or blockage to the soakaway. He said the soakaway 
had failed as a result of gradual damage  excluded under the policy.  Mr and Mrs Qs 
representative referred to previous decisions made by this service.  In response our 
investigator said those  decisions were about  claims  in which  tree roots  were  said to be the 
cause of the problem  but there was no evidence of that in this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Qs representative disagreed. He thought the system wasnt functioning as it 
should do  and this should  be considered  a form of damage. He also said a blockage or 
loss of function should be considered to have happened suddenly. And he said the 
investigators focus on tree roots was misplaced. The complaint has been passed  to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says it covers: accidental  breakage  of underground  drains and pipes, and 
accidental damage  to cables and underground  tanks.
The policy defines  accidental  damage as: visible damage which  happens suddenly  and 
has not been caused on purpose or inevitably .
Ref: DRN40349762Ive looked at the reports of both T and A. I think the reports are generally  consistent. Both 
mention the septic  tank not discharging (or draining) as it should. And neither mention any 
physical damage  or blockage within  the septic tank or any of the pipes/drains serving  the 
septic tank. Ts report said The tank was emptied to attempt to carry out a CCTV survey  of 
the pipe work downstream of the septic tank,  when the tank had been emptied a 
considerable amount of water was observed  flowing back into the septic tank from the 
outfall. T also said the cause of damage is suspected failure of drainage field but hasnt 
said what caused that to happen. A said soakaway arrangement has failed and notes that 
soakaways tend to silt up and fail over time.
T recommended  tests  to establish  whether a replacement drainage field would be a feasible 
option and didnt suggest any work was needed to the septic  tank or any pipework. It 
recommended the septic tank be replaced  as part of an alternative drainage arrangement 
but only if a replacement drainage field couldnt  be installed  not because  the tank itself had 
failed. 
A said The fact that no water was running  back into the tank on a dry day would suggest 
that the soakaway arrangement has limited  function  but does not work properly when the 
weather is worse and the ground  is wetter.  A agreed with Ts recommendations. It also 
suggested further investigations  that could be done  to survey the outlet pipe from the tank.
Allianz said There is no visible damage, merely evidence  that the soak away  is not 
functioning properly.  More specifically the definition requires the damage to be sudden.  From 
the information available there is no evidence that this damage has occurred suddenly. 
Allianz concluded Therefore this event  is not considered accidental damage.
Based on the investigation and reports of both T and A I think  Allianz has acted reasonably.  
The reports  suggest  the water cant escape through the drainage field,  its backing  up into 
the septic tank and leaking into the surrounding ground.  Theres  no evidence  of physical 
damage to any pipe, drain or tank but the system  is failing to function as it should.
Mr and Mrs Qs representative has said theres  a loss of function to the septic  tank or the 
overall drainage  system and that the septic tank has effectively become  blocked. Referring 
to previous decisions made by this service, he asked Allianz  to accept that a blockage or 
loss of function is a form of damage. And that this damage can happen  suddenly.
In this case, I havent seen any evidence to show the septic tank or any pipe or drain has 
suffered a blockage. Both T and A describe the cause of the problem as the drainage field. I 
havent seen anything from T or A to suggest  the silting up happened rapidly or suddenly.  
The resolution suggested by both T and A focuses on replacing the drainage field.  Neither 
suggest a problem with or damage  to the septic tank and pipework. I think  it was reasonable 
for Allianz  to decline the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
I make  no award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Ref: DRN40349763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020. 
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4034976