K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue) took possession of the car it had 
supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement, when  it ought not to have done so.
background
In April 2016 Mr I entered  into a hire purchase  agreement for a used car. Mr I had a 
complaint about  the quality of the car. At Blues request Mr I agreed to take the car to a third 
partys premises  to get it inspected. The issue about the quality of the car has already been  
looked at separately  by this service in an earlier complaint.  We have not looked at the quality 
issue again in this complaint. This is because  we no longer have any power  to look at that 
same issue  any further, although we are aware  that Mr I still remains  unhappy about it. 
After the inspection the car was left at the third partys site while the parties  discussed  what 
should happen next. On 15 June 2018, Mr I and Blue had a series  of phone calls about the 
car. It seems Mr I ended the phone calls with the impression that hed see Blue in court 
when all the issues he thought were relevant, would be aired. Conversely, Blue left the 
phone calls with the impression that Mr I had surrendered  the car to it.
Eventually, Blue collected the car from the third partys premises  and sold it on. But the car 
didnt sell for enough to cover Mr Is debt under  the hire purchase  agreement.  Blue wanted 
Mr I to pay for this shortfall,  which  is something  he would have to do if he had surrendered 
the car. Mr I refused; his stance was that Blue had repossessed the car against his will. He 
suggested that by law in these circumstances,  Blue couldnt do this without a court order. 
Blue did not accept  Mr Is position;  its take was that it didnt  need  to apply for a court  order 
because Mr I had handed over the car to it voluntarily.  It also said Mr I had abandoned the 
car in any event.
Dissatisfied, Mr I came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Is complaint. He concluded that Mr I had not surrendered the 
car to Blue, neither  had he abandoned  it. Moreover, he concluded,  in the circumstances, 
since Mr I had paid one third of the total cost of the car before Blue took it away and sold it, 
Blue should have  got a court order. Because it did not our investigator told Blue it must  end 
the agreement, return  all the money  Mr I had paid under the agreement,  and pay Mr I £200  
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr I accepted our investigators conclusions.  Blue did not. In summary, it sent us information 
about court  action  that Mr I had begun then stopped.  It suggested in the calls of 15 June, 
Mr I objected only to having to pay for the shortfall  and continued  to dispute the quality of the 
car. But it also repeated  that in those calls he had agreed to surrender the car. It indicated it 
thought we had misunderstood  the relevant law about taking possession of a car. In addition,  
it did not understand what we had said about our fair and reasonable approach to complaints 
whereby when we decide  what is fair and reasonable, we take relevant law into account, but 
we dont apply  it like a court  would for example.
Blue asked  that an ombudsman  review Mr Is complaint.
 
Ref: DRN49447852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached earlier in our process by our investigator. These are the reasons why I have  come  
to this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When I look at what is a fair and reasonable way to decide Mr Is complaint I have to take 
account of relevant law and regulations.  But I dont apply the law in the way that a court 
would, particularly where I dont think a strict  interpretation of the law would result in an 
outcome that is fair or reasonable. I hope  this explanation is enough for Blue to understand 
our approach. 
Both Mr I and Blue agree that the relevant law says amongst other things, that where the 
debtor under  a hire purchase agreement is in breach of that agreement - and where that 
debtor has paid one third or more of the total price of the car - then the creditor  is not entitled  
to recover possession of the goods  (here the car) from the debtor except on an order of the 
court.  Further, both parties  also agree  that in addition to what the law says, the hire 
purchase agreement  says in these circumstances  Blue will only take the car against the 
consumers will if it has a court order.
However, the debtor can also choose to hand  back the car. This process is known as 
voluntary surrender. Blue says this is what happened during  the calls it had with Mr I on 
15 June. It said because  Mr I had surrendered the car then the provisions in law and the 
agreement about  repossession  dont  apply. If Mr I had surrendered  the car then Id agree no 
repossession had happened and the provisions about needing  a court  order  wouldnt apply. 
So, the key thing here it seems is: did Mr I voluntarily  surrender the car during those calls?
After it received our investigators view, Blue suggested that when  I look at whether Mr I 
surrendered the car I need also to look at what happened leading  up to the calls.  In 
particular, it has suggested I need  to look at the court action Mr I started before 15 June 
2018 and what  he said about it in March  2018. But I dont think I need to do that. Blue told us 
it was relying on what was said in those 15 June  2018 calls to say that Mr I agreed to a 
voluntary surrender. It has been crystal clear about  this saying it is an undisputed fact that 
Mr I consented to our repossession of the vehicle.  During the call recordings on 15th June 
2018. That being so, that is where  I have directed my attention. Further, since  the 15 June 
calls happened after the events in March 2018.  I think it is correct to say that anything said in 
March 2018 was superseded by what was said on 15 June 2018.
Ref: DRN49447853Ive listened to the calls several  times.  They are instructive. Mr I had six calls with three 
different people, one after another. Neither side appears to be listening to the other party;  
instead, it appears, they both try to get their point across without taking on board the other 
sides stance. Indeed, in one of the calls a Blue employee more than once incorrectly 
summarises what  she says Mr I has just said, and he has to correct her. Another time a Blue 
employee says, I am not sure what you are trying to say. At some points Mr I seems 
frustrated and the tone of the conversation becomes heated. But what is very clear is that 
Mr I is insisting on his legal rights  as he sees them. He is not surrendering  the car back  to 
Blue. Rather, he talks about taking things further and going to court  where he can bring all 
his arguments  into the mix.
Further, any such surrender must  be voluntary and informed, in that Mr I must fully 
understand the significance of surrender. That being  so, I would have expected  Blue to have 
clearly explained  what voluntary  surrender  meant to Mr I, albeit I can see it was difficult for it 
to get its points across  in the calls of 15 June 2018.  One of the risks of voluntary surrender is 
that the consumer  may have to pay a shortfall.  But Blue tells us Mr I was not agreeing to pay 
any potential shortfall.  By definition therefore,  I think it ought to have  known he was not 
voluntarily surrendering the car because he was not accepting a key part of the voluntary 
surrender process.
Alternatively, and somewhat  in contradiction to what it says about  how Mr I surrendered  the 
car in the calls of 15 June  2018, Blue appears  to be saying that Mr I had abandoned the car, 
and this entitled it to take the car back into its possession without a court order. I dont see 
how it is possible to surrender a car that has been abandoned. That said,  I might have found 
it fair and reasonable for Blue to repossess the car without a court  order  if it had been  
abandoned.
But again,  listening to the calls of 15 June 2018 I dont agree Mr I had abandoned  it. He was 
vexed because he had taken the car to the third party  for it to assess it only to find he 
couldnt get the car back without being  charged. This is because  the third party  wanted  to 
charge him for storage before releasing the car. Mr Is position  seemed to be that Blue, not 
he, ought to pay for all this. But in the calls Mr I is still asserting his rights  in relation to the 
car. For example, he mentions that even though hed had a final decision about the quality 
issue, hed rejected it and wanted to take this point to court. He also talks about needing the 
car and the money he has sunk into it and that he wants the car, although he wants it to run 
properly.
For all of these reasons, I dont agree that Mr I voluntarily  surrendered  the car to Blue on 
15 June 2018.  Neither do I agree Blue had reasonable  cause  to think that he did. Nor do I 
find that in the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable  for Blue to act as it did without 
getting a court order. 
Mr I and Blue both agree  that at the time Blue took possession of the car he had paid one 
third or more of the total price of the car. I think Blue also took the car away  against Mr Is 
will as I have already  mentioned. In the circumstances both the law and the hire purchase  
agreement itself say Blue cannot do this correctly without a court  order.  And there is no 
dispute that it didnt get one. In the circumstances, taking this all into account,  and taking  into 
account relevant  law, I find it is fair and reasonable that Blue must end the agreement  and 
return all the payments Mr I made  to it under the agreement.
Ref: DRN49447854Mr I and Blue were often talking at cross  purposes. I think  things might have gone better if 
Mr I had chosen to use more measured  language at some points. That said, I think  some of 
the confusion  was caused by Blue not actively listening to Mr I and not explaining what was 
going on adequately. I think this most likely caused  Mr I distress and inconvenience.  I think  
that £200 is a fair award for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Blue Motor  Finance  Ltd must:
End the hire purchase agreement with Mr I with nothing further owed by him. And it 
must contact the credit reference  agencies and ask them to remove  any information it 
has asked them to register about the agreement  on Mr Is credit  file.
Refund all the payments  that Mr I made  under the hire purchase  agreement including  
the deposit he paid. The information I have seen shows  he paid a deposit  of £3,750. 
That is a cash deposit of £1,000 and he part exchanged his car for the value of 
£2,750. Blue must refund the whole  deposit  that is £3,750.
Pay Mr I £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Blue must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr I accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4944785