K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc have unfairly applied  an excess  to her pet 
insurance claim. 
Where I refer to Allianz, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
background
Mrs B has a Cover for Life pet insurance  policy for her dog M which is provided by Allianz.  
In February 2018  Mrs B made a claim in relation to lumps around  Ms stomach and their 
removal. The claim was accepted and Mrs B paid the £125  policy  excess.
In March 2018 Mrs Bs policy renewed  for another year. At this renewal the policy  excess  
increased to £135.  
In September  2018 Mrs B noticed a lump under Ms collar. M was examined by a vet and it 
was fortunately  established that the lump wasnt cancerous. Mrs B decided  not to put M 
through another operation, but made  a claim for the costs  incurred  in the further  examination 
and tests. 
Allianz applied  the new £135  excess to this claim. Mrs B didnt think  that was fair and 
complained. Allianz  maintained theyd acted  correctly and so Mrs B referred her complaint to 
our service.  
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
excess on Mrs Bs policy is payable per condition, per policy  year. And she didnt 
recommend that Allianz needed  to do more. 
As she still disagrees, Mrs B has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. So Im not upholding it. I know this is likely to 
be disappointing for Mrs B, so Id like to explain why. 
Mrs Bs policy says:  
The excesses are the amounts you pay when you make a claim  and these will be deducted  
from your claim  settlement(s) Your Covered for Life policy provides an amount of money in 
each policy  year for you to claim for all illnesses and injuries As the amount you can claim 
is replenished at each  renewal, you will pay an excess for each illness and injury in each 
policy year.  This means that if [Ms] treatment dates  span two or more policy years you will 
pay the excess(es) in each policy year for each illness/injury.
Terms like these  are common  in this type of insurance and I dont consider them  inherently 
unfair. Allianz are setting  out how the excess payments are applicable.  In Mrs Bs case this 
means that it doesnt make a difference if the two claims are as a result of linked or separate 
Ref: DRN42527632conditions. The second policy excess would  be applicable in either case  as there had been a 
renewal in-between. 
Mrs B says that she understands the terms and conditions of the policy. But she says the 
lump near Ms collar  was missed in February 2018  through no fault of her own. Had it been 
identified it would all have  been  dealt with under the original  claim, with only one excess 
being payable.  She is concerned that if the lump grows and surgery is required, a third 
excess (and possibly  more under the policy conditions) will be payable.  
I can understand why Mrs B is frustrated by this and concerned about the potential for a 
further claim.  But Im only able to consider the actions or omissions of Allianz in relation to 
this complaint. So even if Mrs B feels the vet should  have identified  the lump near Ms collar  
sooner, this isnt something I can fairly hold Allianz  responsible for. 
Their role is to meet  the costs of a claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
And Im satisfied theyve  done this and have  treated  Mrs B fairly in the circumstances. So Im 
not asking them to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252763