K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that NewDay Ltd trading  as Marbles  should not have given  her a credit card 
or increased  the credit limit.
background
Ms C applied for and was granted a Marbles credit card in March 2016.  The opening credit 
limit was £600. In June  2016, Marbles wrote to Ms C proposing to increase the credit limit to 
£1,400. This increase took effect  from July 2016. In November 2016,  Marbles wrote to Ms C 
again, proposing another increase to the credit limit from £1,400  to £1,700.  This increase  
took effect from December 2016.
Ms C spent up to each credit limit almost straight  away. On a couple of occasions,  spending 
on the card took her over the credit limit. But she made payments the following month which 
brought the balance back within the agreed  limits. She made regular, monthly  payments on 
the card for the first year or so. But from May 2017,  the spending on the card was 
consistently over the credit limit and there were some months  when Ms C didnt manage to 
make a repayment. On those occasions,  Marbles applied over-limit and late payment 
charges to the account.
When that happened, Marbles  wrote  to Ms C. The first time was in July 2017  and Ms C 
received letters explaining that charges  had been  applied each month  until January 2018. In 
February 2018, she paid off the balance in full and it has remained at zero since  then.
In June 2018, Ms C brought a complaint to this service saying that Marbles  had been  
irresponsible in lending  to her. She says she had no means of repaying the money under the 
terms of the agreement and that a credit check at the time she applied  for the card would 
have highlighted  other debts she had. She also says Marbles should have been aware of her 
level of income compared  to the level of borrowing and shouldnt have increased the credit 
limit. She wants Marbles to refund all the interest  and late payment charges she has paid. 
She also wants them to remove any default or late payment markers from her credit  file.
Our adjudicator thought that Marbles had acted fairly and in line with their policy. He noted 
that the letters sent to Ms C advising of the credit limit increases gave her the option  to 
decline them. As there were no defaults  on Ms Cs credit file at the time of the credit limit 
increases, he thought  Marbles had acted fairly in assessing the credit as affordable.  
And he didnt think there was evidence that Marbles should have done more to help Ms C 
because there wasnt  anything on the file to suggest  she had contacted  them to let them  
know she was struggling with her finances.  Although a payment arrangement  was agreed in 
January 2018,  Ms C cleared  the entire balance the following month.
Ms C wasnt  happy with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for her complaint to be looked 
at by an ombudsman.  She made the following points:
She still has a high level of debt.  She says she had to take out a long term secured 
loan to pay off the Marbles  card to help reduce stress on her finances.
She says she had a high level of borrowing on two other  credit  cards with NewDay 
Ltd and, if they had been acting responsibly,  they shouldnt  have given her this 
Marbles card.
Ref: DRN46297902She had to take out a loan against her home to pay off the Marbles  card and says 
thats not a fair position for her to be in.
The fact that she was borrowing on other  credit  cards and had short term payday 
loans should have told Marbles that she wasnt managing  her debt. They  could have 
seen this from the credit  report  and shouldnt have increased the lending.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms C applied for the credit card, Marbles needed to check whether she would be able 
to repay  it in a way which was sustainable and which  wouldnt adversely affect her financial  
situation. They needed to carry out checks which were proportionate to things  like the 
amount of credit being applied for and the information Ms C provided  about her financial 
situation. However, there is no set list of checks which Marbles  had to do.  
Marbles say that, when considering Ms Cs application for the card,  they took into account 
the information provided by her as well as information held by the credit reference  agencies 
and their own internal  risk strategies. They  say their checks  showed  she was eligible for the 
account. Although  she had supplied income  information, Marbles didnt verify this as they 
say thats not required  as part of their procedure. But I think the checks  Marbles carried out 
were in proportion  to the £600 credit limit Ms C was given when she opened the account. 
Marbles say there was nothing in what they saw to suggest that the card wouldnt be 
affordable to Ms C. She did have other borrowing, including some payday  loans. But that 
doesnt mean that Marbles should  automatically  have  declined her application. Its for them 
as a business to decide  who they lend to. What Id expect is for them  to carry out sufficient  
checks before they lend,  and Im satisfied they did that. They  say they were  aware  Ms C had 
a number of payday loans. But they point out that some of those had been settled and none 
were in default or delinquency at the time Ms C applied  for the card.  
And, at the time Ms C applied for the Marbles card, there were no problems with the other  
NewDay Ltd credit cards  which she C held. (This is also the case for each occasion when 
the Marbles credit limit was increased.) So I havent seen anything which makes me think  
Marbles shouldnt have  given her this credit card or that they were irresponsible  in doing so.
As to the credit limit increases, there are best practice guidelines for this which I would 
expect Marbles to follow. The guidelines  say that a business should  give the customer at 
least 30 days written  notice  of a proposed increase. The letter  should  also state the current  
credit limit, the new increased  credit limit and the customers right to reject the increase with 
details of how to do that. The letter must also confirm  that the business will not treat the 
customer any differently if they choose to reject the credit limit increase. Im satisfied  that the 
letters Marbles sent to Ms C complied with these guidelines. 
The guidelines  also say that a business  should carry out appropriate  checks on a customers 
ability to repay, as well as their overall  creditworthiness, before increasing a credit limit. The 
business should refer to information from credit reference agencies  and also check  at least  
one of the following: (i) the customers income  and financial  commitments, (ii) how they have 
handled their finances  in the past, and/or  (iii) internal credit scoring techniques. The 
information Ive seen confirms that Marbles followed the guidelines here.  
Ref: DRN46297903Although Ms C had gone over her credit limit in May 2016 and Marbles  had charged  an over-
limit fee, they say their policy allows customers to have a credit  limit increase unless over-
limit fees have been applied in each of the three months before the increase. That wasnt  the 
case for Ms C. So they werent going against their policy by increasing her credit limit.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Ms C was given the chance to opt out of the credit  
limit increase on both occasions but didnt  do so. She allowed the increases to take effect  
and spent the money they provided. 
In a situation where a customer doesnt specifically tell the business theyre in financial 
difficulty, I would still expect the business  to realise  this if there are other signs that the 
customer is struggling. Ms C has referred to the fact that she consistently  made  the 
minimum repayment on her account.  She says that should have alerted Marbles  to the fact 
she was struggling. But making the minimum payment doesnt necessarily indicate  that 
someone is in financial  difficulty. This can just be the way they are choosing  to manage their 
finances. And many customers will have other debts too. But if these are being maintained  
as intended  as they were here  then this would  suggest to a lender that theyre able to 
repay what theyve borrowed.
From July 2017, Marbles were regularly  contacting  Ms C about default charges. But that was 
long after the credit limits had taken effect. And Ms C was still managing  to make some 
payments on the account. In February  2018, she cleared  the balance  in full. I understand 
from Ms C that she has done this by taking out a loan which is secured against her property. 
She says thats  an unfair position  for her to be in and I realise she feels strongly  about  this. 
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  she told Marbles she was planning to do it. 
If she had contacted Marbles about it, they would have had the opportunity to discuss it with 
her and perhaps suggest other options.  But as they didnt have that opportunity,  it wouldnt 
be fair to ask them to do something about  it now. Especially as the account has now been 
repaid in full. I havent seen anything which makes  me think they should have acted 
differently earlier  on either.  
So, while I realise  this will be disappointing to Ms C, I dont think  Marbles have acted 
irresponsibly either in giving her the credit card in the first place or increasing the credit limit.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4629790