K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs B arranged a mortgage  with Santander. A few months later, possibly  
when applying for additional  credit, Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy.  They  paid a monthly  
amount for the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B only for accident,  sickness  and unemployment. If he had 
made a successful claim the policy would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander  disagreed and so the matter has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  Ive decided to uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties  agree that the sale took place in a meeting in a branch and Santander  has said 
that it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B. This means it had to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that the policy was right for them. But, based on what  Ive seen, I dont think the 
policy was right for them.
Santander has given  us a copy of the policy wording which  it says would have been the 
document applicable  at the time of Mr and Mrs B taking out this policy. On this document it 
states that cover isnt provided for claims for accident or sickness  which  arise  as a result  of 
any condition you had at the start date.  
Mr B has told both Santander and us that he had an ongoing condition  at the time of taking 
out the policy. This condition required him to have several operations  in the years leading up 
to the sale. And from what he has told us, it was necessary for him to take time off work to 
recover from these operations  for the last operation he was off work  for six weeks. The 
information Mr B has provided has been  consistent from the outset  when making his 
complaint and so I have  no reason  to doubt  what he has said. Based  on this information,  I 
think its likely that any claim he made which related to this condition  would be excluded  as a 
result of the term stated  above. I think this would have mattered to Mr B especially when 
considering the fact that he had already had multiple  operations  to try to alleviate this 
ongoing problem  over a ten year period.
Santander has said that any pre-existing conditions would have been discussed at the time 
of the sale and it would have formed part of a suitability  check  to make  sure the policy  was 
right for Mr and Mrs B. It also said that the exclusion would have been discussed  with Mr B 
and he would have  received a policy summary  which included information  about the 
Ref: DRN45665292exclusion. While Ive noted these comments,  I dont have any evidence  to support that 
Santander asked  questions about  Mr Bs health  at the time of the sale and that, having then 
found out about this condition, it went on to advise him that it was unlikely the policy  would 
provide cover for this. I dont think that, if Mr B had been told he wouldnt be covered for the 
ongoing medical problem he was suffering from, he would have thought  this policy  would 
have been a good choice  for him.
So when taking  everything Ive seen and been told into consideration, I dont think Mr B 
would have gone ahead with the PPI had Santander advised him, as it should have, that he 
wouldnt be covered  for this condition. And so I think  Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result  
of what Santander did wrong.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and Santander 
should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should  
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4566529