K822xcomplaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the service hes received from TSB Bank Plc (TSB).
background 
Mr Y had a current account with TSB.  He lives in Ireland  and there are no branches of TSB 
so he operated his account online.  
Mr Y complained to us in July 2018 that he hadnt  been able to access  his account online 
since April 2018. He said that his salary was paid into that account and because he couldnt 
access it, he was forced  to borrow money  from family and was unable  to contribute towards 
his fathers funeral costs. He also says that hes had to rely on credit cards  throughout the 
period he couldnt access  his money.  In addition,  Mr Y told us that:
Hed been referred to TSB by a friend and neither  of them  had received the referral 
bonus TSB said it would pay for new customers;
He had planned to deposit  £500 a month into his account so that he could receive  the 
monthly 5% interest being offered as part of the terms of the account, but he couldnt 
make any deposits  or transfers;
He couldnt  get through on TSBs telephone lines to discuss the access  issue  with it; and
Hed changed address and despite  notifying TSB, it continued to correspond  with him at 
his former address  including sending his debit card and PIN there.
TSB was experiencing some issues with its IT systems following the migration  of its systems 
in April 2018. It told us that for some customers outside of the UK, the online access issues 
still hadnt been resolved.
In early September 2018, an investigator here upheld the complaint and asked TSB to pay 
Mr Y £500  for the trouble and upset caused to him because he couldnt access his account 
for several  months. She also asked  TSB to re-send his PIN once TSB had updated  its 
systems with Mr Ys new address, pay him his share of the referral bonus and also pay the 
5% monthly interest on his account from May 2018  onwards.  TSB agreed.
In late September  Mr Y told us that hed not received  the compensation and his address  still 
hadnt been corrected on TSBs systems  and so hed still not received his PIN. Mr Y said he 
had intermittent access to his account  but had been unable  to transfer money  and when he 
tried to, he received  error messages. He said hed spent several hours trying to get through  
to TSB on the phone but had been unsuccessful.   
In late October, TSB told us it hadnt received Mr Ys change of address form so we 
confirmed Mr Ys new address and TSB updated its systems and said that a new debit card 
and PIN was being sent to Mr Y. TSB said that the £500 compensation had been paid, it was 
unaware that Mr Y was expecting a referral bonus  payment and that the reason Mr Y hadnt 
been paid the 5% interest is because he hadnt paid in £500  per month as per the terms and 
conditions of the account. Our investigator reminded TSB what  it had agreed to in 
September and TSB paid Mr Y the referral bonus  of £75 in November.  
Ref: DRN46893852Mr Y provided screenshots showing that he still couldnt access his account online. He said 
he spent a considerable amount of time ringing  TSB to ask for help with the calls often being  
cut off whilst  being  transferred  to a different department or whilst holding. TSB said that 
ongoing access issues continued to affect  a number of its customers who lived and operated  
their account  outside of the UK. TSB arranged  for one of its technicians  to call Mr Y and talk 
through the problems however, regrettably  the problem couldnt be identified nor resolved. 
Mr Y decided to close his TSB account and TSB agreed to transfer  the balance in his 
account to one Mr Y had opened with another provider. 
In December, our investigator issued  another opinion  in which  she recommended  that TSB 
pay Mr Y a further £500 for the ongoing  inconvenience of not being able to properly access  
and manage his account, the length  of time it took for TSB to update  Mr Ys address on its 
systems, the delay  in paying Mr Y the first £500 of compensation  and the ongoing difficulties 
hed experienced communicating with TSB about these and other matters. The investigator  
also recommended  that TSB pay Mr Y 5% interest  on the balance in his account up to 
£1,500 in line with the terms  and conditions of the account from April 2018  until the account 
was closed because  Mr Y had been  deprived of the opportunity to deposit funds into his 
account due to TSBs IT problems. TSB and Mr Y agreed to this.
In late January 2019, Mr Y complained to us that TSB had failed to make  the compensation 
payment. TSB said it was unsure why Mr Y hadnt  received the payment  and could arrange  
a faster  payment immediately. Mr Y declined this. He says that the stress of trying  to resolve 
matters with TSB and having to return to this service to enforce what TSB had been asked to 
do has adversely affected his health and caused him significant  inconvenience. He says that 
the £1,000 compensation  thats been  offered isnt enough. TSB disagree and so the case  
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator  Ill explain why.
Its clear that TSB was experiencing some IT problems  and Mr Y was affected by this. And 
so its right that TSB should compensate Mr Y for the impact  it had on him.
Mr Y says that he couldnt get through to anyone at TSB over the telephone to discuss the 
matter. Im aware TSBs phone lines would have been busier than usual during this period 
and I accept that repeatedly trying to get through would have caused Mr Y some frustration 
and inconvenience   especially over a period of eight months.  I also acknowledge that 
because there was no surety as to when  the IT issues would be resolved and the ongoing 
difficulties he had with operating his account, Mr Y was left with no option  other  than to close 
his account and re-open another with a different provider. 
The investigator recommended  that TSB pay Mr Y the 5% interest  he would have earned on 
his balance up to £1,500  from April (when the IT issues began) to December 2018 (when the 
account was closed)  and I agree.  I say this because Im persuaded from the evidence Ive 
seen that Mr Y would  have continued to deposit  £500 a month into the account in order to 
benefit from the interest rate and it would be unfair to deprive him of this because he couldnt 
access his account.     
Ref: DRN46893853Mr Y encountered repeated  difficulties in trying to get his new address updated on TSBs 
systems. Mr Y said he completed the change of address form wed sent him and he sent this 
to TSB. I dont doubt this. Regrettably, the form wasnt received by TSB and the options to 
visit a branch or complete  the change online werent  available  to him. I consider that TSB 
could have done more to support Mr Y given the circumstances.  It was only after we 
provided the new address details that TSB updated its systems in late October. Ive taken 
into account the impact  of this on Mr Y; the difficulties  he experienced when trying to pass 
security over the telephone and the anxiety it caused him knowing his debit card and 
correspondence were  going to the wrong  address  because TSB had failed to update  its 
systems sooner.  
Having taken everything into account, I consider that a compensation award of £1,000 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because whilst I agree that Mr Y couldnt 
operate his account fully from April until December 2018 and suffered considerable 
inconvenience as a result, Im satisfied that the level of the compensation award adequately 
reflects this. 
I sympathise with Mr Ys circumstances. I can see that the access issues with his account  
coincided with a very difficult time in his life and created additional stress for him - and Ive 
taken this into account when making  my decision.   
Overall, Im satisfied that there has been material  distress and inconvenience caused  to 
Mr Y and a compensation award is warranted. But I do think that £1,000 to reflect the non-
financial loss is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ys complaint.  
Further, TSB should pay Mr Y 5% interest  on the account balance up to £1,500 from April to 
December 2018,  in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already TSB Bank Plc should pay:
a further £500 to Mr Y taking the total compensation award to £1,000 representing  
his non-financial losses;
5% interest on the account balance up to £1,500 from April to December 2018, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Reena Anand 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4689385