K822xcomplaint
Miss H is unhappy about the way Auxillis Limited handled her claim after she was involved in 
a road traffic accident.
background 
In December 2018, Miss H was involved  in a road traffic accident  that she said wasnt  her 
fault. And she agreed to use the services  of Auxillis, an accident  management  company 
(AMC). In January 2019 Miss H said she was told her car was beyond economical  repair  and 
that shed receive  a settlement payment of £1, 861.81 from Auxillis within  seven days. On 
this basis MissH returned the hire car Auxillis had arranged for her, and bought  a car, paying 
for it using  a credit card, as she expected  to repay  this on receipt  of the settlement cheque.  
But MissH said the cheque didnt arrive as shed expected. After several calls with Auxillis 
she was told that the third-party insurers (TPI) hadnt yet agreed  to the settlement. MissH 
complained to Auxillis  as her understanding was that she had fully comprehensive motor  
insurance and couldnt  understand the delay or why she was having  to try to get the matter 
resolved, as this was causing her a great  deal of stress.
Auxillis said their terms and conditions clearly showed that they hadnt provided their 
services as part of Miss Hs motor insurance claim. And as an AMC their role was to provide 
details of the costs  to the TPI, and once  agreed  the TPI would forward  the settlement 
payment to them to forward on to Miss H. The email they sent was an automated  one 
following the return of the hire car theyd provided. And as the TPI didnt accept their insured 
driver was at fault for the accident, Miss H had agreed for her claim to be referred to her own 
insurer.
Miss H wasnt  happy with their response  and referred her complaint  to us.
Our investigator said that the settlement payment would be made by the TPI and it was the 
TPI that was disputing liability. But she understood why the information Miss H had received 
was confusing. She asked Auxillis to pay Miss H £50 for the trouble  and upset this had 
caused to her.
Miss H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Miss H is complaining  about  
took place before this change in regulation, my decision is based  on the approach  the 
Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman would have taken. 
It isnt our role to consider who was at fault for the accident or to investigate  the
accident claim. But to look to see whether Auxillis  has acted fairly and reasonably  in
handling Miss Hs claim.
When someone has a non-fault road traffic accident, they have the option to claim through
Ref: DRN46570892their insurance company  or use an AMC like Auxillis. The advantage of using an AMC is that 
the consumer  doesnt have to pay their motor insurance policy  agreed excess and their no-
claims discount, if they have one, wont be affected. Miss H agreed to use Auxillis services  
to deal with her claim.
I think some  of Miss Hs upset is due to her believing her fully comprehensive  insurance  
policy would resolve  the issues. And I dont think she understood that Auxillis werent acting 
on her behalf for her insurer and so she wasnt utilising these benefits. Auxillis,  as an AMC 
manage claims by arranging a hire car, where  needed, organising repairs or determining 
pre-accident value (PAV) of the car if its deemed non repairable  and claiming these costs 
back from the TPI. 
Miss H has said she was told in early January 2019  that shed receive her settlement from 
Auxillis in seven days. And the actions  she took were based  on this premise.  This is why she 
chose to purchase a replacement  car using her credit card as she thought she would be able 
to pay the amount off her credit card on receipt of the settlement cheque.
I can see on 7 January 2019 Miss H was told by the assessors of her car damage:
Thank you for calling  back regarding your pre accident value. We can report  to Auxillis  
(Albany) to advise that have agreed the pre accident value. As discussed you will receive  the 
payment in two separate payments. One cheque from Auxillis  1861.81 and a further 
cheque from the Salvage  Company collecting your vehicle of  278.20 Totalling the Vehicle 
Valuation of  2140.00
While this does say Miss H will receive a cheque form Auxillis I havent seen anything  to 
show that she was told this would be within seven days. I can see Miss H was told by Auxillis 
the following  day:
We have been advised that the settlement  payment for your vehicle has now been  sent to 
you which means that your hire vehicle is due to be returned by 08/01/2019.
As your own vehicle was assessed as a Total Loss this timing includes a period  of up to 7 
days following receipt of the final settlement cheque that you are able to retain the hire 
vehicle.
Auxillis would be expected to follow the guidance put in place by the Association of British 
Insurers General Terms  of Agreement  (The GTA). And this says a hire vehicle should be 
returned within 24 hours of repairs being completed, or seven days of the Pre-Accident  
Value (PAV) payment  being received  any hire charges incurred after this date would 
become the consumers responsibility. 
So, I think Auxillis were  adhering to the guidelines  and looking to mitigate  any costs and 
safeguard Miss H against incurring any costs that the TPI wouldnt cover. There is mention 
of seven days, but this is in the context of Miss H having  received her settlement payment.
And Auxillis went on to say:
If you have  not yet received your settlement  payment it is important that you let us know as 
quickly as possible so that we can extend your use of the hire vehicle in line with this.
Ref: DRN46570893So, although  there is a mention of seven  days,  I havent seen any evidence  to say Miss H 
was told she would  get her settlement within seven days. But I can understand her 
expectation of getting her cheque within a short period as the notification from Auxillis  does  
say that the payment had been sent. 
Auxillis also sent Miss H an update by letter dated 8 January 2019 that said:
In way of an update  in relation to your recent motor claim. We have been advised  by the 
Independent Engineers that you have  now agreed the total loss figures for your vehicle. 
Once the engineers report has been  received confirming the agreed figures, we will forward 
this onto the third party insurer  to request your settlement payment You will receive  further 
confirmation once  this has been  done
Which I think showed  the settlement payment hadnt  yet been sent.
Its clear from Auxillis  case notes that Miss H felt the other  driver  was at fault for the
accident, and she felt Auxillis should  be fighting  this on her behalf. But its not Auxillis
role as an AMC, to dispute liability or fight this for her  this is the role of her insurance 
company. Auxillis role as outlined above was in this case  to determine the PAV,  arrange  a 
hire car and claim these  costs back.  Which  is what they did.
But I can also see that the TPI didnt accept their insured driver was at fault for the accident,  
as they said the accident  was caused  by both drivers changing  into the same lane. And had 
in late January 2019 advised Auxillis that they would  be disputing liability. So, when Miss H 
called, she was advised by Auxillis that her claim would take some  time to resolve and it was 
recommended that she made a claim with her own insurer.  And she agreed to this.
So, I agree  with our investigator that Auxillis  could have been  clearer  in the way they had 
handled Miss Hs claim. And as Miss H would have already been unhappy about the
accident and the disputed  liability, this has caused further trouble and upset. So, I agree with 
our investigator that Auxillis should pay Miss H £50 to reflect this.
But it was Miss Hs decision to purchase  a new car and to acquire it by paying on her credit  
card before shed received her settlement  payment and I cant hold Auxillis responsible for 
that. 
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and ask Auxillis  Limited to pay Miss H £50 for trouble and 
upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February  2021.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4657089