K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC rejected their claim under section  
75. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. I Invited Mr and Mrs B and Tesco to let me have any further evidence or 
arguments they wanted to make before I finally determined the matter.
Mr and Mrs B said they disagreed with my provisional decision. They  said I had drawn 
inferences regarding  the wording of the advertisement and that my provisional decision did 
not reflect the representations made  to them  about the service history and condition  of the 
car. In particular, Mr and Mrs B said they disagreed with the point made  by Tesco  that the 
price reflected the fact that the timing belt hadnt been replaced  and said they were 
disappointed that I had considered this to be a valid point.  They  also said that they would 
have expected the timing belt to have been  replaced, based on the discussions they had 
with the dealer.
Tesco said it had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the advertisement for the car and as I said before, I dont disagree that it 
is advertised as being in immaculate condition. But I still think  this wording is more 
commonly used to describe the interior/exterior condition of a car as opposed to (for 
instance) the mechanical condition. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B may have  had discussions  with the dealership  about  the 
service history and condition of the car but theres  no record of what was discussed and as I 
wasnt present I cant be certain  of what was said. So I have  to reach a decision based on 
the available  documents.  And as Ive said in my provisional decision, theres nothing in the 
advertisement to suggest that the car will be free from faults  for any given period of time. Ive 
also taken account  of the fact that this is a used car, so I would expect it to have a degree  of 
wear and tear and to require component parts replaced from time to time. It would be 
unrealistic to expect a used car to be in the same condition as, for instance, a brand  new 
car. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B dont agree with the point  made  by Tesco  that the price 
reflected the fact that the timing belt hasnt been  replaced. Theyve said they are 
disappointed that I considered this to be a valid point. However,  in my provisional decision I 
havent accepted this point; Ive simply mentioned it in the context of setting out Tescos 
position. As Ive said, I havent seen any evidence to show whether the timing belt was 
replaced previously or not, and Ive explained why I dont think  this matters  because a timing  
Ref: DRN47381712belt is a wear and tear item which a consumer should expect to replace on a car from time to 
time.
On balance, I remain of the view that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point  of 
supply. If there had been an inherent  fault with the timing belt I think this would have 
presented much sooner given the time and mileage elapsed before the fault occurred.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those Ive set out I more detail in my provisional decision  
my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4738171