K821x#15complaint
Mr H is seeking to recover £9,390.00 from Barclays Bank UK plc, a payment he made  in 
October 2018 after falling victim  to a scam.
Barclays says it is not liable for the loss because  Mr H unwittingly authorised the payment  
and it provided clear warnings and guidance. Although it agreed it could have acted  sooner  
to recoup the money from the payee bank, even  if it had, by the time Mr H notified  it of the 
scam there were no funds remaining with the payee bank. 
my findings
I appreciate this complaint has been with us for some time  please accept my apologies.  
Im also sorry  to hear of whats  happened  to Mr H, and I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly about whats  happened.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Mr H authorised  the scam payment of £9,390.  He was duped by the 
scammers into instructing  his branch to transfer  that sum to their fake account with another 
bank. They deceived him over email  into thinking  that he was buying a motor home through  
a legitimate website.  
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr H was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although 
he did not intend the money to go to the scammers,  under the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017, and the term and conditions of his account, Mr H is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps  may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
Mr H made  an appointment with the branch to discuss whether the website was legitimate, 
and he wanted  to make sure it wasnt a scam. So, I dont need to consider whether Barclays 
Ref: DRN46142642alert systems ought reasonably to have been triggered and detected the scam.  The £9,390 
payment was still unusual and uncharacteristic  for him and the account, particularly as it was 
being sent to a new payee. There had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent  
times. The staff were right to question Mr H about  it - its just a question of whether they did 
enough in all the circumstances. 
Mr H was 75 years old at the time. The FCAs occasional  paper 31 (September 2017)  
talks about recognising potential vulnerabilities  and acting with appropriate levels of care to 
mitigate the risk of financial harm. Of course,  not all 75-year olds are inherently  vulnerable,  
but Barclays ought to have  been alert to the fact that potentially Mr H may have been.
At the first meeting,  the branch staff did not locate Mr H on their systems or make any notes 
on their records  so there are no customer contact  notes  to support what was said or 
discussed. There is a dispute about  what was said during the meeting. Mr H says the staff 
reassured him of the legitimacy  of the website, but Barclays  says they said the website could 
be real or it could be fake. Barclays says branch staff told Mr H they would not make the 
transfer and advised he visited the vehicle in person first. Whilst Mr H accepts this action 
was suggested  to him, he says he told staff he would not be visiting the vehicle first as it was 
too far away. It is worth noting that the location  of the vehicle was around 300 miles away 
and over a 10-hour  round  trip in a car. 
But what  seems clear  is that Mr H had concerns about the legitimacy of the website and a 
discussion around scams took place. Mr H had even taken his laptop into the branch. And 
two members of staff were involved   so I think there was sufficient concern by Barclays that 
this might be a scam. The Banking  protocol sets out that bank staff are encouraged to 
contact the Police  even  if they arent sure the customer is a victim  of fraud.  So, I do think  
Barclays could have  done more here.
Mr H returned to the branch around  midday the following day. According to Barclays 
records, branch staff asked him where  the money was going and then gave  him general 
information about fraud and scams.  Whilst notes  were  made  on this occasion, there were no 
notes or indication that the cashier  was aware of the conversations  that took place the 
previous day. The evidence before us indicates  that the staff on this occasion did not ask 
Mr H any appropriate follow-up or probing questions. In my view, they could and should have 
done more, particularly given the requirements  of the Banking Protocol which  encourages 
staff to ask probing  questions and to get into the detail in order to test the purpose of the 
payment. And if staff had done  this or been aware of the conversation  the previous day, they 
would have realised  it was highly unlikely that Mr H would have made the round  trip to 
Newcastle to see the vehicle in person  which  ought to have caused  concern.
Ive thought carefully about Barclays arguments that they provided clear  warnings to visit the 
vehicle in person  and that Mr H did not carry out sufficient due diligence  before making the 
payment. But I think here, there was or ought  to have  been sufficient concern about the 
possibility of a scam  and that Barclays could and should have been doing more.  And if it 
had, I think the scam would likely  have unravelled.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness,  
I will say that, whilst,  on learning of the scam  from Mr H, Barclays  did not take reasonable 
steps to try to recover the funds from the payee  banks without undue  delay.  The scammers 
Ref: DRN46142643withdrew all of Mr Hs money well before  Mr H notified Barclays, so even  if it had acted 
without undue delay,  there were  no reasonable prospects of Barclays  recovering them.
I have also considered whether Mr H should bear some responsibility by way of contributory  
negligence  in particular because he chose to go against the banks advice to visit the 
vehicle. However, I think Barclays should have intervened  earlier and this action would likely 
have unravelled the fraud. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this 
occasion, he was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  fraudster.
In the circumstances I am satisfied Barclays should fairly and reasonably reimburse  Mr H for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost.  I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money  
from Mr H it would have remained in his savings account, so interest  should  be at that rate.  
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mr H £9,390  within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Barclays is legally required to deduct tax from the interest  should send Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back  from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4614264