K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) have unfairly refused 
to meet  a claim they made on their home insurance  for storm damage.
background
Mr and Mrs W found, after a storm, that a fence surrounding their tennis court  was damaged  
and that theyd lost some  tiles from their roof.
They contacted L&G which said it would  look at the claim.
L&G sent one of its contractors out to look at the damage. The contractor said the fence post 
 which  is concrete  had failed because it had been  damaged  by frost over many years. So 
he thought the main  cause of collapse was gradual damage  which  was simply highlighted 
by the storm.
The contractor said the damage to the roof was similarly caused, because only a few tiles in 
the middle of the roof were missing. The contractor  thought that was because lugs  on the 
tiles had broken,  something typically caused  by frost damage.
L&G said gradual  damage was excluded under its policy, so wouldnt meet the claim. 
Mr and Mrs W complained but L&G didnt change its stance, so they brought  their complaint 
to us.
Our investigator agreed with L&G as far as the roof went. He didnt look at the damage  to the 
fence as he thought damage  to fences from a storm werent covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs W say theyve acknowledged  that some of their roof needs maintenance  but 
the damage didnt  occur  in that are but instead  in a new part of the roof. And they say the 
fence is covered, as L&G previously agreed it was classified as part of the building.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again and said he agreed with L&G that the fence 
damage was also caused  by wear  and tear. 
Mr and Mrs W dont  agree,  so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary,  for Mr and Mrs W to make  a successful claim for storm damage to their 
property, they need  to show that there was a storm at the time, and that the storm alone is 
the cause of the damage. For an insurer to decline the claim,  it has to show  that the damage  
is covered by one of the exclusions in the policy terms and conditions. In this case  L&G has 
said neither part of the claim will be paid as the main factor  in the damage is wear and tear, 
rather than the storm.
Both parties  agree there was a storm, so that part of the conditions is fulfilled. 
Ref: DRN48887082L&G sent a surveyor  to look at the damage. Thats common  in claims like this. And I think  its 
reasonable for L&G to rely on its experts  opinion when deciding whether to pay a claim. 
The surveyor has provided photos of the damage  to both the roof and the fence  posts. He 
said he thought  the roof in general  was showing signs that it needs maintenance as there 
were several slipped tiles etc. He also said the missing tiles had probably failed because of 
frost damage over time. Mr and Mrs W say they acknowledge one, separate,  part of the roof 
is old  but that isnt the area of the roof where  the damage  they were  claiming  for occurred. 
They say the damage is in a part of the roof that is much newer. Ive looked at the photos  of 
this newer part of the roof. From  what I can see, I cant  say L&Gs  surveyor  reached the 
wrong conclusions  about the damage. The photos  show missing tiles in the centre  of the 
roof. Thats not typical of storm  damage, unless theres an existing weakness. Im satisfied 
the main cause was wear  and tear and the storm has simply highlighted this.
Similarly Ive looked  at the photos of the damaged fence  post.  It shows  significant signs  of 
rusting and the sort of damage caused  by contraction and expansion typically caused  by 
freezing water getting into the posts  over a period of time. Concrete posts do fail over time, 
and again I think  the cause of the damage  is wear and tear, with the storm highlighting the 
problem rather than being the main  cause.
The surveyor also said other  posts  were showing similar signs  of wear and tear. Mr and Mrs 
W say that if thats the main reason why the post failed, then the entire fence should have 
collapsed  but it didnt. Im not persuaded by that argument. There  is  as I said above  
reasonable evidence that the post Mr and Mrs W claimed for was showing signs  of wear and 
tear. We cant know if all the posts had suffered exactly  the same  level of wear and tear, or if 
the one post received a stronger gust of wind. 
Overall I dont think L&G did much  wrong here, and Im not going to ask it to meet Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888708