K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to discontinue her accident, 
sickness and unemployment insurance  policy.
background
In 2002, Ms M took out through her mortgage provider  (which Ill call D) an accident, 
sickness and unemployment insurance  policy. The policy, which was annually renewable, 
would pay benefit  for up to twelve months in the event that Ms M was unable to work  due to 
accident or sickness, or was made involuntarily  unemployed.
In advance of the 2019  renewal,  AXA (the underwriter of the policy)  wrote to Ms M and said 
it would  no longer be offering the policy and so her cover would end when the current  annual  
policy expired.
Ms M complained to AXA.  She said shed  understood the policy  would continue  to provide 
cover for the duration of her mortgage,  which still had some years to go. She believed  its 
decision to stop offering  cover was related to her age, which  she regarded as discriminatory.
AXA didnt uphold  her complaint. It explained that a business decision had been  made  to 
stop offering the policy to customers of D. 
Ms M was unhappy at AXAs  response. She referred  her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  AXA 
was entitled to make a commercial decision to stop offering the policy and it had given Ms M 
adequate notice of this.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings.  She questioned  whether  AXA was continuing 
to offer the policy to other people who were not customers  of D, and whether her postcode 
had been a factor in its decision as had been implied in AXAs final response letter. She 
continued to believe  that AXA had taken  the decision not to offer renewal of the policy  
because of her age.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ms M has explained that she took out the policy at the same time she took out her mortgage 
and that she expected the policy to continue to be available for the duration of the mortgage.  
However, while I understand that this might  have been her expectation, Ive seen nothing  to 
indicate that she ever received a guarantee to this effect.
The policy is an annually renewable policy. AXA is obliged to offer cover for the duration of 
the policy year. However, it isnt obliged to continue offering the policy  indefinitely.  It is 
Ref: DRN46128742entitled to make a commercial decision to discontinue the policy  provided that it applies this 
decision in a fair way.
I can understand Ms Ms concern because I think the final response  letter  from AXA was 
slightly confusing.  It implied that the decision not to renew her policy  was in some way 
related to her postcode. It also referred  to discontinuing the policy  for customers of D. She 
has reasonably  questioned  whether AXA acted against her unfairly and was continuing to 
offer the policy to other  customers. However,  I have  clarified with AXA that there  were  no 
other policyholders  except  those who had taken it out through D. Thus  its decision to stop 
offering the policy applied  to all policyholders. Its decision was not specific to Ms D and there  
was no discrimination against her. Furthermore,  AXA has explained  that it was unable  to 
offer Ms D and the other policyholders an alternative policy because it didnt offer any such 
policy.
AXA has provided copies  of two letters which it sent to policyholders to advise them that the 
policy would be discontinued. These  were  sent 60 days and 30 days  before the policy  end 
date. Im satisfied that this gave Ms M adequate  time to source alternative cover if she 
wanted it.
In summary,  I consider that AXA made a legitimate commercial decision that it no longer 
wanted to offer this particular policy. This decision applied  across all policyholders and Ms M 
was given adequate notice of it. I appreciate that AXAs decision was inconvenient for Ms M 
but I cant reasonably  conclude  that AXA acted unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask AXA to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4612874