K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr N was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
Unum. The policy would  pay benefit, after a deferred  period of 26 weeks, if Mr N was 
prevented from performing his occupation due to illness or injury.
In July 2015, Mr N stopped  working due to gastroenterological symptoms. He underwent  
investigations and in August 2015  was diagnosed with Crohns disease.
In December 2015, Mr N was able to start a gradual  return to work.  However,  he continued 
to suffer  from symptoms.
In November 2016, having still not returned to normal working  hours, he again completely 
stopped working  to undergo surgery related to his condition.
In January 2017, he again began a gradual  return to work.
In January 2018, having still not returned to normal hours, he again completely stopped 
working due to his symptoms.
In March 2018, Mr Ns employer made a claim under the policy on his behalf.
In July 2018, Unum  declined  the claim. It said that the evidence didnt support that since  
July 2015 Mr N had undergone a period of 26 weeks where he was totally prevented from 
working by his condition. Unum additionally told Mr Ns employer in a separate  letter that 
Mr Ns claim was also being declined  due to late notification which had impacted its ability  to 
fully assess the claim.
Mr N appealed against Unums decision and provided further  medical evidence in support of 
his case.
In November 2018, Unum  maintained its decision to decline his claim. It said that while  Mr N 
was justifiably off work  for a period of time following his initial absence in July 2015, there 
was no clear clinical reason as to why he couldnt  have  returned to full-time working by the 
time the deferred  period  ended in January 2016.  It furthermore said his condition  had been  
in full remission since April 2018 and that while he continued to report ongoing  problems to 
his employers occupational health  department,  the evidence  didnt support that he met the 
policys definition of incapacity.
Mr N complained to Unum.
In January 2019, Unum issued its final response  letter. It didnt uphold  Mr Ns complaint. It 
referred to the late notification of the claim and said this had been  its reason for declining the 
claim originally. It said that there  was an absence of evidence of abdominal or gastric 
intestinal symptoms  to show that Mr N was functionally  restricted  from carrying  out his 
occupation. It said that the late notification of the claim meant  it was no longer possible to 
clarify the discrepancies between the medical  evidence and Mr Ns reported  inability to work.
Ref: DRN47041952Mr N was unhappy at Unums response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  it had 
been fair for Unum to decline  the claim.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators findings.  He described the symptoms from which he 
said he had continued  to suffer since he first became absent. He said that even if Unum  
wasnt prepared to accept  his claim in full from the end of the deferred period in January 
2016, it should nonetheless consider  his claim under the policys  provisions for proportionate 
benefit and linked absences. He provided  further medical evidence in support of his claim,  
including a letter from his treating consultant.
Unum still wasnt  persuaded to change its decision to decline the claim.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr N is medically unable to perform his insured  occupation  for a 
period of 26 weeks from the date he was first absent. In Mr Ns case, he therefore  needs to 
show he was unable  to work between 29 July 2015 and 27 January 2016.
The policy also says that if the policyholder (Mr Ns employer) doesnt notify Unum  of a claim 
within 90 days of the end of the deferred period, Unum shall have no liability to pay benefit. 
In this case, Mr Ns employer didnt notify  Unum of the claim until more than two years  after 
the end of the deferred period. However, I consider it is reasonable for Unum to rely on the 
late notification to decline the claim only if it can show  it was disadvantaged by this. 
The policy also contains a provision for proportionate  benefit  which  would be paid if, at the 
end of the deferred period, Mr N was only able to perform his occupation on a reduced  basis 
and was earning less as a result.
The evidence shows that Mr N was admitted  to hospital in July 2015. He was clearly unable 
to work at this time. Upon  being discharged from hospital, he underwent investigations  into 
his symptoms and was eventually diagnosed with Crohns disease.
Mr N was placed under the care of Dr W, a consultant gastroenterologist,  who saw Mr N at 
regular intervals and appeared happy with his improvement. In October 2015, Dr W 
suggested that Mr N should shortly  consider  a graded return  to work.
In December 2015, Mr N began this graded return. 
By the end of the deferred period, Mr N had still not resumed full-time  working.
It is clear that Mr N was not eligible for full benefit  at the end of the deferred period because 
he was back at work and therefore no longer totally incapacitated from working.
Ref: DRN47041953Mr N was potentially eligible for proportionate benefit because he hadnt resumed full-time 
working. Indeed,  he never resumed full-time working  between  the end of the deferred  period 
in January 2016 and when he made the claim in March 2018. However, Unum considers  the 
evidence isnt clear  as to why he was prevented from working  normally,  at least  at certain 
times, during this period.
Mr Ns GP was certifying throughout this period  whether  or not he was fit for some  work but 
there is nothing in the GP notes to show why these decisions  were  made  and what  specific 
symptoms prevented Mr N from returning to normal working.
I consider the main  evidence in support of Mr Ns incapacity is the series of reports from his 
employers occupational health  provider.  However, these appear to be largely based on 
Mr Ns own reporting of his symptoms and they dont necessarily reflect  the other medical 
evidence.
For example, during  2016 the occupation health reports continuously refer to Mr Ns severe 
Crohns disease and at various times refer to his severe  joint pains and fatigue.
However, the reports from his treating specialists appear to have a more  positive  view of 
Mr Ns condition and dont  imply the same severity  of his symptoms. For example:
There is much to be positive about,  He is putting  on weight, working  4 days  a week  and 
being more active.  He is finding his joints frustrating and having to stretch more.  He 
feels stiff. (Dr W - June 2016)
His food diary today shows that he is typically managing 2-3 meals  a day. He does suffer 
from occasional stomach  cramps.  (senior dietitian - July 2016)
He has had pain in his knees with some difficulty in walking  but also pain in the low back  
On examination today,  he appears  well  it may be helpful for him to see the 
physiotherapists for some specific work and advice on a gentle exercise programme. 
(consultant rheumatologist  October  2016)
He reports that he is generally well in himself  (senior  dietitian   October 2016)
In November 2016, Mr N underwent surgery  for a bowel resection. On being discharged 
from hospital a few days later, he was given a certification to remain off work for two weeks.
Mr N returned to work in January 2017 but still on reduced hours.  He remained on reduced  
hours until he stopped working again  altogether in January  2018.  His occupational health 
notes refer variously to symptoms of reflux and indigestion, joint pains  and fatigue  (March 
2017), reflux, sore throat,  irritation  of breathing and fatigue  (May  2017)  and recurring 
tightness in stomach  and prone to tiredness (October 2017).
However, the reports from his treating specialists again dont  necessarily imply the same 
concerns. In particular, in December 2017, his clinical nurse  specialist recorded:
He is very stable and has been reasonably well since his review with us in July  his main 
complaint is a tightness [around his operation site]
I can understand Unums  concerns about accepting a proportionate benefit claim.  It might be 
that such a claim was warranted for at least some  periods of time but it is difficult to establish 
Ref: DRN47041954its eligibility so long after the event, particularly as the specific functional limitations faced by 
Mr N are not always described in detail  and there  are periods when it seems he may have 
been potentially  able to have returned to work full-time.
Mr N has supplied additional  evidence, including  a letter from Dr W dated March 2020 in 
which he said the following:
To me there  is clear  evidence that this man had active  Crohns disease from his diagnosis 
in July 2015 until it was surgically  resected in November 2016. This active  Crohns disease 
did slightly improve on medical management  but persisted  despite  medical  management. He 
was symptomatic during the whole of this period and certainly was not able to carry out for 
[sic] levels of activities  or work.
While this letter is helpful, and I believe  implies  that Dr W considers Mr N was medically 
prevented from performing his former level of work  between July 2015 and November 2016, 
it still doesnt explain why Mr N was unable to return to full-time working at any time since 
January 2017.
Mr N has also submitted  a letter from his employers occupation health physician dated 
August 2020 which says it was only fairly  recently that Mr N was able to resume full-time 
working. However, I consider that this still doesnt fully explain the functional limitations 
which prevented  him from resuming  full-time  working at any point since January 2016,  and 
particularly since January 2017.
In summary,  I consider that Mr N clearly was still experiencing symptoms from his Crohns 
disease from the time he started a graded return to work in January  2016  until he underwent  
surgery in November 2016. However, it is not clear how severe those symptoms were  and to 
what extent they prevented him from returning to work full-time. And the evidence as to why 
he remained  unable to return to work  full-time during the whole of 2017 is less clear  again.
It is quite possible that Mr N would  have had an eligible claim  for proportionate benefit 
following the end of the deferred period in February 2016 but I consider the evidence does 
not categorically show he was suffering functional restrictions  which caused him to remain  
unable to return to work  full-time throughout the following two years until the time of his 
claim. And I consider that the late notification of the claim has hampered Unums  ability  to 
fully assess this. I therefore consider it was reasonable for Unum to decline a claim for 
proportionate benefit.
Mr N has also raised the question of whether he should be considered for benefit under 
linked absences. The policy states
Although the deferred period is normally required to be a period of continuous absence due 
to incapacity,  Unum will allow linking  of two or more separate periods of absence, each of at 
least two weeks duration,  due to incapacity  arising from the same cause, to complete a 
deferred period,  provided that this accumulated  absence is no longer than twice  the length  of 
the deferred period as defined in the schedule.
However, even if I were persuaded that Mr Ns legitimate absence  starting  in July 2015 
combined with his legitimate absence following his surgery  in November 2016 meant that he 
had served a deferred period of 26 weeks, it still wouldnt  overcome the concerns I have 
expressed about why he couldnt have returned to full-time working sometime during 2017. 
Ref: DRN47041955And in respect  of Mr Ns total absence from work starting in January 2018,  this was over two 
years from the time he originally stopped  working in July 2015 meaning that the two 
absences could not be combined for the purposes of the linked absence clause of the policy.
Furthermore, Unum has said that there was no obvious medical  reason as to why Mr N 
stopped working  altogether in January 2018.  I agree with this. The medical records from this 
period and shortly  after indicate that Mr Ns Crohns disease was in remission  and, aside 
from the occupational health reports which rely largely on Mr Ns self-reporting, there is little 
evidence to show that he was medically  prevented from working. 
I sympathise with Mr N who undoubtedly has a chronic  condition  which  has affected him to 
varying degrees since 2015.  However,  after taking everything into account, including  the late 
notification, I consider  it was reasonable for Unum to decline the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4704195