K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wants him to pay his 
remaining premium after he cancelled his motor  insurance policy. He wants to pay just £325.
background
Mr H said RSA wanted him to pay the full remaining premium when he cancelled his policy,  
even though there was time remaining on the policy. RSA said this was because  of an open 
claim on the policy. Mr H said he was told hed only have  to pay £325  not about  £1,800  that 
RSA now asked for. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained  that 
the policy was an annual contract  even  though  Mr H was paying for it in instalments. He also 
explained that an insurer is entitled to ask for the full premium if there is an open  claim on 
the policy. This is because the claim is regarded as fault until the insurer  recovers its outlay. 
And he thought  Mr H was reasonably aware that hed have to pay his remaining instalments. 
The investigator thought RSA had incorrectly told Mr H in one call that hed only have to pay 
about £325. 
Mr H replied that hed acted on the incorrect  information given to him. He said he couldnt 
afford to pay the amount RSA asked for.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H feels that he should pay RSA about £325 only. He was told this 
was the final charge  when he cancelled his policy and he was sent a letter to confirm  this. 
But I think Mr H should pay RSA the £1,816.83 it has asked for. Ill now explain why I think 
this.
Mr H made  a claim on his policy when his car was declared a total loss and RSA paid him a 
settlement. The claim was still open as the other drivers insurer  was disputing  liability. In 
that case industry practice is that the claim is recorded as fault until the other  insurer  accepts 
liability and RSA recovers its outlay.  Mr Hs policys terms  and conditions  say that if he 
cancels early and there is a fault claim, then the remaining premium is due. 
I think this is standard  industry practice  and so I cant say its unfair or unreasonable.  RSA 
explained that if liability was accepted by the other  insurer  then he may receive a refund. 
Mr H called RSA four times in one day to discuss cancelling his policy as he said hed found 
cheaper cover elsewhere. In the first three  of these calls he was told that hed have to then 
pay his remaining instalments. In the last call, he was told incorrectly that just a final charge 
was due. Mr H provided  us with a copy of this call. I didnt hear that he told the agent that 
this was different  advice  from that hed received earlier from three different agents. 
Mistakes occur, and I think  RSA made  a mistake in providing incorrect advice in the call and 
later in a letter.  But I dont think it follows that Mr H should benefit from this error. 
Ref: DRN42998012I think Mr H was reasonably made  aware  that the remaining premium would be due in the 
case of cancellation.  This requirement is in his policy  document  and this was explained to 
him three times. 
So I dont  think,  on balance, that RSA created  a false expectation. I think Mr H was made 
aware that hed have  to pay the remaining premium.  So I dont think  RSA acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably in asking for this. And I dont think it can be held responsible for Mr H then 
deciding to cancel  his policy. 
Mr H said he couldnt now afford to pay this amount. The investigator has already explained 
that he can ask for an affordable payment plan so that he can clear  the debt.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4299801