K820x#14complaint
The executor of the estate of the late Mr L has given consent to this service to address a 
complaint submitted in the interests of Mrs L and Miss L  both beneficiaries  of the estate 
and both referred to as the complainants.  The executor also supports  the complaint.
The complainants  say a Partner  (the partner)  from St. Jamess Place Wealth  Management 
Plc (SJP) did as follows:
Gave investment  advice to Mr L in 2016  that was unsuitable, because it mismatched 
his investor profile; it lacked due inheritance tax (IHT) and Capital Gains Tax (CGT)  
considerations and advice;  it lacked  proper consideration and suitable  advice on 
early withdrawal  charges  (EWCs)  associated with the investments; it lacked proper 
consideration and suitable (and honest) advice on the state of Mr Ls health and the 
impact from that upon the contemplated investments; and it lacked proper 
consideration and suitable advice on an impending  change in Mr Ls personal  and 
financial circumstances at the time.
Wrongly involved Miss L in the arrangements  for the investments without her consent  
and without any assessment of her profile at the time.
Acted in breach of a Court Injunction in the course of advising Mr L without informing 
Mrs L.
SJP disputes  the complaint, but it offered £500   on a without prejudice basis  to 
compensate for the length of time it took to address the complaint.
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  considered the detailed submissions from 
both sides and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld.  In the main, she found  as 
follows:
The partner advised Mr M to invest around £16,000 in an Individual Savings Account 
(ISA), £100,000  in a Unit Trust Feeder (UTF)  account and £2 million in an 
Investment Bond  (IB). These sums  were  from the proceeds of the sale of his 
business. There is evidence that he expected the sale to qualify for Entrepreneurs 
Relief and that he retained a fund of £500,000, from the proceeds,  for CGT purposes. 
As such there does  not appear to have been call for CGT related advice.
Evidence of the partners suitability assessment in 2016 appears to be reliable  it 
includes the meeting  he held with Mr L in June that year,  an in-depth report  issued to 
Mr L in relation to that meeting and the final recommendation letter  issued to him in 
September that year.
In the context of a married profile, Mr L had a potential IHT liability  of around £2.5 
million; the partner made  him aware  of this but he elected  not to take any IHT 
planning measures;  the partner also made him aware of examples of such  measures 
that could be considered; unfortunately  he passed away too early and before any of 
these measures could  provide IHT mitigation benefits; so even if such measures 
should have been  applied there would be little to no practical difference  to the 
estates IHT position.  
EWCs  were  not a threat to the circumstances of the advice sought by and given to 
Mr L. They applied to the IB recommended  to and invested in by Mr L. They began at 
the rate of 6% and were active for the first six years of the IB, decreasing by 1% 
every year.  However,  Mr L sought to invest for five years  plus,  fact-finding related 
Ref: DRN44106832evidence says he was in good  health  and he did not intend  to draw income from the 
IB in the first five years. Furthermore,  the EWCs  were  made  transparent to him in the 
course of the advice  he received.
It was Mr Ls wish and instruction to have  Miss L added as a second life assured for 
the IB investment. SJP has given  the reasonable explanation that there was merit in 
using a younger life assured [that is, Miss L] in this respect because  it avoided the 
risk of an automatic  chargeable event in the event of Mr Ls death. This was done on 
his instruction and there was no need to assess Miss Ls profile because she was not 
the owner of the policy. In addition, no loss has arisen from this issue.
The relevant  Court Injunction was presented  to the partner/SJP  in October 2016, this 
happened after the advice events and, in addition, before it arrived  the partner was 
obliged to observe  Mr Ls data protection rights so he could not have informed Mrs L 
about the advice without Mr Ls consent. Prior to the injunction,  the partner was 
presented with Mr L and money  he held and owned, so he would not have been 
required to inform  Mrs L in such circumstances.
The complainants  view that the partner  knowingly ignored and misrepresented 
specific facts about  Mr Ls mental ill health in the fact-finding process  is noted.  The 
same applies  to evidence that he had three applications for life cover, around the 
time of advice, which were abandoned for qualification reasons related to his mental 
ill health. However, evidence suggests  that the partner would not have known  the full 
extent of Mr Ls mental ill health and was entitled to accept, in good  faith,  Mr Ls 
assurance that he no longer required medication.
There is evidence that the partners advice  to Mr L catered for and addressed  what 
he needed to consider  in terms of the recommended investments and in the context 
of the impending change in his personal and financial circumstances at the time  
this was associated  with impending legal proceedings which led to the subsequent 
Court Injunction.
Mr Ls objective was for tax efficient capital growth over the medium  to long term, and 
without withdrawal of income for the first five years. He had a medium risk profile 
and, aside from the invested amounts, he had around £2.2 million  in accessible cash  
reserves. The ISA was suitable for this profile.  The UTF helped  to use his tax-free 
dividend allowance  and had other  tax efficiency benefits through the arrangement to 
feed the ISA in future years. The IB offered further tax efficiencies  and it broadly 
matched Mr Ls risk profile.  Overall, the partners recommendations were not 
unsuitable for Mr L.
The complainants  disagreed with this outcome. In the main, they said:
The investigator was wrong to rely on the June 2016 report, it was not an in-depth 
document, it was for presentation purposes only (ahead of the suitability letter  that 
followed in September) and it failed to address the disadvantages  and risks of the 
potential investments  especially in the context of Mr Ls mental ill health, the risk of 
suicide arising  from that, the consequence  of IHT in the aftermath of such an 
unfortunate event  and the likelihood that the investments  would then need to be 
liquidated to pay IHT and would  therefore  incur EWCs in the process.
The same  applies to the suitability letter in September, that too is unreliable  for 
similar reasons.
The partners fact-finding document is inherently  unreliable given that he intentionally 
misrepresented Mr L to be in good health  despite full awareness  arising  from his 
professional and personal/friendship relations  with Mr L  that the opposite  was the 
case. The partner  was also irresponsible to have encouraged Mr L to make  a 
Ref: DRN44106833significant investment  of over £2 million very shortly after he had decided  to stop his 
medication without  medical advice   which the partner was also aware of.
The partner did not advice suitability on the potential impact of the impending  legal 
action upon the investments Mr L was recommended to make. In particular, the legal 
action carried the prospect  of altering the ownership  of the IB and of the need to 
liquidate the IB in this respect (with the associated EWC costs). The unsuitability 
resulting from this was not addressed in the partners recommendation.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my conclusion  is that the 
complaint is not upheld.  On balance, I do not consider that the partners advice was 
unsuitable.
I address the issues as follows:
Mr L received the relevant investment advice subsequent to his sale of equity in a 
business and receipt  of the associated proceeds. 
The 2016 fact-find document reflects this source  of funds  only a part of the 
proceeds was to be used  for the investments. It is a lengthy document (in the format  
of a form)  62 pages  and it also reflects, repeatedly, the basis  for the legal 
proceedings the complainants  have  referred to. This decision  will be published, so in 
order to avoid breaching confidentiality owed to Mr Ls estate and to the 
complainants I will also avoid going into the details of this basis  and of the legal 
proceedings. The fact-find document does refer to Mr L as being in good  health, but 
immediately thereafter it expressly records the fact and summary  details  of his 
mental ill health. The document is completed in both a joint and individual context.
The remainder of the fact-find document includes  the following  it records  that Mr L 
expected his financial circumstances to change  within the following five years; that he 
had access to over £5 million in available cash/assets, joint ownership of over £7 
million in total assets and no liabilities;  that he was 52 years  old, was not in 
employment since the business equity  sale, did not need income  at the time, planned 
to retire at age 60, did not want pension or IHT planning advice, wanted instead to 
focus on investments  only, had some investment experience (including previous 
experience with SJP), had a medium risk profile  and had an objective for tax efficient  
growth over 5 to 15 years (with  facilities for future tax deferred withdrawals and 
annual CGT exemptions); and that he agreed with the IB, ISA and UTF (to feed the 
ISA in the future) investment proposals  that had been made to him.
By the time the suitability letter  was sent to Mr L in September 2016, the partners  
recommendations appear to have been  under  discussions with him for a number of 
months previously.  The letter  refers to this and it says applications had already been 
made for the three investments when the letter was sent.
The suitability letter broadly reflects the same  information from the fact-find  
document, as summarised above. It also includes the following  reference  to Mr L 
previously having ISA and Unit Trust  (UT) investments through  SJP; reasoning for 
Ref: DRN44106834the suitability of the new ISA recommendation mainly being its tax efficiency  and its 
match with his growth objective;  reasoning for the suitability of the IB mainly being  
the same, in addition to broadly matching his risk profile and having  good 
diversification in its bespoke fund selection; reasoning for the suitability of the UTF (in 
connection to the ISA) being  that its bespoke fund selection had good  diversification 
and broadly reflected his risk profile; retention of the £2.2 million  cash  reserves; 
information on relevant  investment risk factors; notice about the EWCs; and 
reasonably detailed information  about  the tax treatments  for each investment.
Prior to the suitability  letter the partner presented Mr L with a Wealth Management 
Proposal in June  2016. This  also a relatively  lengthy document (53 pages)  
appears to have been the initial suitability assessment and recommendation 
approach towards the proposed investments and it appears  to have informed the 
discussions that continued and led to the suitability letter in September (and to 
execution of the investments around that time). Reference to Mr Ls retention  of 
£500,000 for CGT  potentially arising  from his business equity sale is made in this 
document, as is Mr Ls plan to draw income from his cash reserves over the following 
five years. The document also includes an express warning  to Mr L that, with 
foresight of the potential for the legal proceedings that featured thereafter, the impact 
of such proceedings  upon the investments would include the prospect of altering the 
ownership of the investments or of the need to liquidate them  (with resulting  EWC  
costs and/or additional tax liabilities).  Notice was also given to him about a potential 
IHT lability,  on the estate, of around £2.5 million  with married status  but the 
document records that he did not want an IHT planning service at the time and 
instead wanted the investments to have enough  flexibility to cater for such  planning  
in the future. Nevertheless,  the document proceeded to provide him with general  IHT 
planning information for his consideration.
I have summarised the above  three  documents  in order  to address the complainants 
criticisms of them. Overall and on balance,  I do not accept those criticisms.  The 
proposal document was arguably  an in-depth document.  I do not suggest that it 
catered completely for the assessment of suitability that Mr L was entitled to. It was 
not intended to do that. It was presented to him at the proposal stage of the overall 
investment process and in this context, I consider  that it was a competent document. 
It provided both parties with a meaningful setting out of what  needed  to be discussed  
and considered towards making the investments Mr L sought to make. This 
document rightly  noted the provisions  that were  in place for the potential CGT liability 
Mr L expected  from his business  equity  sale, the impact  of the legal proceedings that 
featured thereafter and his IHT liability  and despite him declining the invitation to 
address it the document essentially  gave  him a reminder  of the need to address it. I 
have also seen  wider  evidence of an assessment by SJP in 2014 in which  previous 
notice about IHT liability had been  given.
I do not consider  it necessary to also repeat what I have summarised  above  in terms 
of the contents  of the fact-find document and the suitability letter. Overall and on 
balance I find them and the proposal  document to be reliable and consider them to 
have been competent documents produced by the partner as, and in the manner, 
required by regulations. With such evidence (as summarised above), I do not accept 
the complainants arguments to the contrary of these findings.  The suitability 
assessment process for Mr L was reasonably executed.
Ref: DRN44106835I understand the complainants  point  about  how Mr Ls state of health was 
represented in the fact-finding exercise. They were his immediate family members  
and would undoubtedly have had intimate  experience of the effects upon him (and 
the family) of his mental ill health.  As such,  I can appreciate  their displeasure  that the 
partner represented  him as having  good health. Considering the document and the 
exercise as a whole,  I am not persuaded that the partner  sought to misrepresent or 
misrepresented this matter. Evidence  of this stands in the fact that after referring to 
Mr Ls good health the partner recorded  a summary of his serious  mental ill health. It 
appears more likely (than not) that his reference  to good  health was led by the 
response given  by Mr L. The partner was not a medical professional, he had no 
inherent authority  to determine Mr Ls state  of health so I would not have expected 
him to impose his own assessment of Mr Ls health. He also probably felt obliged  to 
give due respect to how Mr L wanted to describe himself.  They were both engaged in 
a fact finding  exercise. If, as it appears likely, Mr L said he was in good health, the 
partner was obliged  to record the fact that this was his response.  Quite rightly, he 
balanced that by also recording a summary of the facts about  Mr Ls mental  ill health  
that he was aware of. On balance, I do not consider this was the misrepresentation 
the complainants have alleged or that it removes credibility from the fact-finding  
process.
Connected to Mr Ls mental ill health is the complainants  suggestion  or argument  
that he lacked  mental  capacity to engage in high value investments in 2016  and that 
it was irresponsible  of the partner to have encouraged him in this respect. The 
complainants have described  the effects of Mr Ls mental ill health  as a prominent  
feature over many years prior to and including 2016. There  is evidence that he 
functioned at a high corporate  level until the business equity sale in 2016 and had 
also engaged  in investment pursuits prior to 2016.  The implication is that, in the 
years leading  up to 2016, Mr L had sufficient  capacity  to function and cater for his 
professional and personal affairs  despite  the effects of his ill health. I have not seen 
evidence that this was different in 2016,  so I do not accept the argument that he 
lacked capacity to make the investments  he made in that year or that the partner  was 
irresponsible in recommending  those investments.
A further  argument  from the complainant that is connected to  Mr Ls mental ill health 
is that the partner  ought reasonably to have foreseen the unsuitability of the IBs 
EWCs because  of the potential legal proceedings to follow and/or  because there was 
a real risk of his ill health leading to suicide  (after which  both the IHT and EWC 
liabilities would  be triggered). I have addressed the former  above. With regards to the 
latter, I have not seen evidence to conclude,  on balance, that the partner knew  or 
ought to have known of an imminent  or any  tangible  suicide risk associated  with 
Mr L at the time of advice.
I endorse and incorporate into this decision the investigators findings  (and reasons, 
as summarised in the background above)  on the matter of Miss L being  used by Mr L 
as the second life assured for the IB and on the matter of the timing  of the partners 
recommendations in relation to the Court Injunction.
I do the same  endorse and incorporate the investigators findings  and reasons  
with regards to the overall suitability of the IB, ISA and UTF recommended  to Mr L. 
The recommendations were not unsuitable.  Individually and collectively they matched 
his tax efficient growth objective;  they (including  the relevant underlying fund 
selections) broadly  matched is medium  risk profile; he had a substantial capacity for 
Ref: DRN44106836loss that was not threatened by the exposure  to risks in the investments; he had an 
equally substantial cash reserve after the investments; and the suitability letter refers 
to arrangements agreed between him and the partner to keep the investments under 
ongoing review  to ensure they continued to remain suitable for him. It is unfortunate 
that Mr L passed away in the year after the investments were  made.  However, as I 
said above, I have  not seen evidence  to conclude, on balance, that such  an event 
was foreseeable  in 2016. A view on suitability  of the investments should not be 
clouded by hindsight  arising from present knowledge of what happened in 2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above. I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the 
late Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4410683