K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that plumbers instructed by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to carry out repairs 
at his house under the home emergency section  of his home insurance policy did the work 
badly. This caused  further leaking and damage to his house, which UKI was slow to rectify.
background
Mr B had home emergency  cover under his home insurance policy with UKI. From 2016  
onwards he called on UKI under  this policy a number of times when he had leaks  in his 
house. He says he had to battle with UKI to get them first to send repairers, and then to deal 
with the damage  their poor work caused to his house.
In January 2017 he had a leak in central heating piping next to a radiator. UKI instructed 
plumbers who attended and fitted a compression joint to fix the leak.
In November 2017, Mr B complained to UKI that this repair  was now leaking again, and had 
caused damage to the adjacent wooden flooring. He didnt want  UKIs plumbers to come back 
to attend to this. He wanted to use a firm of plumbers he had confidence in whom Ill call P.
UKI agreed  to this. P attended and repaired the faulty compression  joint.  It reported that in 
its opinion the joint failed because of faulty workmanship. UKI didnt accept its repairers were 
at fault, but agreed to pay Ps costs of repairing the joint and making good the flooring.
In March 2018, Mr B found that water  had got under  the repaired flooring and lifted  it. So he 
complained again to UKI. UKI didnt accept this was connected to the previous events and 
said Mr B would have to make a new claim.
P attended again. It said there was damp underneath the flooring. It was satisfied that its 
repair was sound,  and so the damp  must have come from elsewhere. Once the floor dried 
out Mr B replaced the flooring himself.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. In relation to the latest 
leak, he thought  it more likely than not that plumbers appointed  by UKI were responsible for 
the faulty workmanship that P found,  and that the repaired flooring lifted  because UKI or P 
failed to arrange drying of the affected  area once  P had repaired the leak.
Throughout the 18 months  Mr B was disputing the quality of works  done  by UKIs contractors 
he was living  in damp conditions which wasnt healthy, especially for someone  of his age. 
Also, as UKI were aware, he suffered from disabilities, and his wife at this time was seriously  
ill and later died,  which  added to the stress  he was under.
The adjudicator recommended that UKI pay Mr B compensation of £1,000 for the trouble 
and upset it had caused him.
UKI responded to say, in summary, that:
it thought many of the issues were the responsibility of another insurance company; and
it had gone over and above what was reasonable to accommodate  Mr B, who hadnt 
made the process  easy and had been aggressive  and abusive to its staff and agents.
Ref: DRN41963822The adjudicator said Mr B had home emergency  cover under his UKI policy and he wasnt 
persuaded that what had happened  didnt fall within UKIs responsibility  to be considered  
under his assessment.
He accepted that UKI had acted  with good  intentions, and had indeed made specific  
arrangements to accommodate Mr B, including allowing him to use Ps services. However 
the fact remained  that the workmanship of its contractors hadnt been done  with reasonable 
care and skill, and UKIs claims  process hadnt resolved issues  for some time.  This 
increased the frustration  and stress  Mr B had suffered.
Mr B said that he thought  the compensation should be increased to £2,000 to punish  UKI for 
the way it had treated him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, as the investigator  explained  to Mr B, our role is to compensate  a consumer, 
and/or seek to provide a remedy, for any harm or unfair treatment they have suffered. We 
have no power to fine or punish a business. Thats the role of its regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
I have read UKIs file recording the contacts its staff and agents had with Mr B. I accept he 
wasnt an easy customer to deal with, and it did try to set up systems to accommodate him. 
However like the investigator, I conclude that the contractors for which it was responsible  
didnt carry out their work with proper skill. The result was Mr B suffered  long periods  of 
damage to his house, stress and inconvenience.
Although UKI has suggested that another  insurance  company was more closely  involved 
with the conduct of the works, I havent seen any evidence that it provided  home  emergency  
insurance cover to Mr B, as UKI clearly  did. So I consider that UKI is responsible  as insurer 
for the shortcomings  in the services  that were  provided to Mr B.
I conclude that appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B suffered 
is £1,000.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order U K Insurance  Limited to pay Mr B 
compensation of £1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196382