K822xcomplaint
Mrs Y and Mr Y complained that Hastings  Insurance Services  Limited  sold them  a motor 
insurance policy with a voluntary excess that they hadnt asked for.
background 
Mrs Y and Mr Y bought  their policy through Hastings who is a broker. They  said theyd found 
theyd got a voluntary excess on their policy after claiming on it. They  said they wouldnt 
have taken a voluntary  excess  and had done quotes online where they hadnt selected a 
voluntary excess.  They  asked  Hastings  for a copy of the call and were  unhappy  when they 
didnt receive it and also didnt get a call back Hastings  had promised. Hastings said Mr Y 
had renewed the policy  on the phone and it had explained the excesses. 
Mrs Y and Mr Y brought their complaint to us. Hastings accepted its service wasnt  as good 
as it would have  liked. It said it hadnt  sent Mrs Y and Mr Y the call as it said it would and 
they hadnt received a call back within an hour as Hastings had promised. So it offered  them  
£50 compensation  and said it would  provide  a copy of the call. 
Our adjudicator listened to the call where Mr Y renewed the policy  and thought Hastings had 
clearly explained  the excesses. She thought £50 was enough to compensate Mrs Y and    
Mr Y for the poor service.  
Mrs Y and Mr Y didnt think it was enough and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call where  Mr Y renewed  the policy. In that call Hastings asked if 
everything was remaining  the same  as the previous year and Mr Y said it was. After running 
a quote Mr Y asked  what the excess was on the policy. Hastings call handler  said there was 
a voluntary excess of £250 and compulsory excess of £75 so the total excess would be 
£325. So Im satisfied Hastings made the voluntary excess  clear.  
Mr Y referred to a quote hed done  online when querying if Hastings could provide a cheaper 
quote. But I havent heard  anything to suggest he wanted Hastings to refer to the online 
quotes he or Mrs Y had done. So I dont think Hastings did anything  wrong  in selling Mrs Y 
and Mr Y the policy with a voluntary  excess.  
I can understand Mrs Y and Mr Ys frustration at not being sent the call when they asked. 
And also at not being called back. But Hastings  has accepted this wasnt  good enough and 
offered £50 compensation and to provide  a copy of the call. When  considering other  awards 
our service  makes for cases  of similar seriousness Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable 
amount to compensate for their distress and inconvenience. So Im not going to ask 
Hastings to increase  this. 
my final decision
I understand Hastings  Insurance  Services Limited  has offered Mrs Y and Mr Y £50 
compensation and to provide a copy of the call. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN48566232the circumstances and require Hastings Insurance Services  Limited to pay Mrs Y and Mr Y 
£50 compensation  for their distress  and inconvenience and provide them  with a copy of the 
phone call if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4856623