K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that the premium Amtrust Europe  Limited charged  her for travel insurance  
was excessively high.  
My references to Amtrust include its agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I wasnt likely to uphold  the complaint. I include an extract from that 
decision here:
 
Mrs J took out single  trip travel insurance  with Amtrust. She told it about  a number of 
medical conditions  and it charged her a premium of just under £800 for the cover. Mrs J was 
unhappy about this at the time, but paid the premium as she needed the cover.  
Some time later Mrs J complained to Amtrust.  She said it had applied an excessively high 
premium which was both unfair and directly discriminatory on the basis  of my declared 
disability and illnesses. She explained she was in good health and had travelled many times 
since being diagnosed with a recurrence  of a type of lymphoma during 2007. She provided a 
letter from her consultant oncologist about this. 
Amtrust said it had charged Mrs J the correct premium based on the risk factors, including 
her answers to the medical questions. It explained  these included  the length  of trip, 
destination and the information  shed given it about  her medical conditions. These facts 
generated a risk score which was used to calculate the premium. Mrs J wasnt  happy with 
this response and she came to us. 
Our adjudicator thought Amtrust had calculated the premium correctly and that it would have 
treated any consumer with the same set of circumstances in the same way. She didnt think 
Amtrust had treated  Mrs J unfairly,  so didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J didnt  agree  and so 
the complaints come  to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  I wont  uphold it. 
Amtrust asked Mrs J questions about  her medical  conditions before she took out the policy.  
It sent her a copy of the questions and answers (known as the medical screening) with the 
policy schedule, and asked her to confirm if any of the answers were incorrect.  She didnt 
say the answers  were  incorrect.  
Although Mrs J has given us a letter from her consultant oncologist this was after the date 
she took out the insurance. Amtrust was entitled to base the premium on the information  
Mrs J gave it about her medical conditions  at the time she applied for the policy.  
Ive looked at the questions Amtrust  asked  Mrs J and the answers she gave it. Im satisfied 
that Amtrust based  the medical  screening on the correct information.  The risk score directly  
corresponded to the premium Mrs J was charged. I dont think  Amtrust  made  a mistake,  and 
Ref: DRN41353712Im satisfied it treated  her in the same way as any other  customer  in exactly  the same 
position. 
Ive thought about Mrs Js concern that Amtrust  directly discriminated against  her on the 
grounds both of her disability and illnesses. 
Its not my role to decide if a particular policy decision  is discriminatory, as thats for the 
courts to decide.  But I can decide  whether Amtrust treated Mrs J fairly  and reasonably taking 
into account, amongst  other things, relevant law and regulations.  
The relevant  law here is The Equality Act (The  Act),  which  sets out some  circumstances 
where insurance companies are legally allowed to treat consumers with a disability 
differently from someone without a disability. In effect, the Act says insurance companies 
can treat people with a disability differently if they can show a reasonable basis for this 
difference. The Act says the insurance  companys decisions  must be based  on information 
relevant to the assessment of the risk to be insured and from a reliable source.
Amtrust has told us it uses an independent  risk assessment tool to assess the risk of 
medical conditions  that consumers  declare. From  my experience I know  that the risk 
assessment tool gives risk scores for certain conditions.  The tool will ask follow  up questions 
for certain  conditions and the answers  to those questions may also attract a risk score.  The 
risk assessment tool is independent. The tool used by Amtrust  and a similar tool is used by 
many insurance companies in assessing  the risk of medical conditions. Some insurers  may 
choose to accept the increased risk of insuring a medical condition and generally they are 
likely to price the policy  according  to the risk theyre prepared to take.
Amtrust has shown us that the responses  Mrs J gave it to the questions  it asked generated  a 
particular risk score which corresponds directly to the premium  it charged her. I havent seen 
any evidence that Amtrust  is in breach  of the Act in the way it assessed the risk presented  
by Mrs Js medical conditions. So I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Mrs J responded to my provisional decision explaining why she didnt agree shed been 
treated fairly. Amtrust had no further  evidence to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all Mrs Js comments but I still dont uphold  her complaint. Ill explain why 
with a focus on the points shes raised in response  to my provisional decision. 
Mrs J makes the point that shes not disabled and has been  perfectly  healed  of lymphoma. 
Im pleased to hear shes been well for almost  twelve years. I didnt mean  to suggest she 
was disabled, but rather I was dealing with a specific point she made in her complaint. She 
said she was complaining about  the excessively high premium which was both unfair  and 
directly discriminatory on the basis of my declared disability and illnesses. So I thought it 
important to deal with this point in my decision, and explain why I thought  Amtrust had acted 
fairly when  it took her medical history  into account when deciding the premium to charge her 
for travel insurance. 
Ref: DRN41353713Mrs J accepts that medical facts should  be used to determine the insurance  premium and 
says shes not suggested  otherwise. Her oncologist stated that there  was no sign of cancer, 
which she says was slow growing anyway.  So she says its wrong for Amtrust to charge a 
large premium on the basis that shed had cancer, which was unlikely to require treatment 
within a two-week holiday  period.  She points out that the letter  from her oncologist  written in 
November 2015  shortly after she took out her insurance said she was extremely well with no 
symptoms relating to her diagnosis. She asks whether it would have  made a difference to 
Amtrust had she sent that letter to it at the time she applied for the insurance. 
It wouldnt have made  a difference. Amtrust has shown that it asked Mrs J questions  about 
her lymphoma and recorded  her answers.  In response to its questions  she said:  shed been 
treated for the follicular lymphoma in the past,  but not in the last three months; the treatment  
had been successful and there hadnt been any recurrence; shed been told she was in 
remission and didnt  require any treatment, and this had been the case  for (then) five to ten 
years; she wasnt using any prescribed medication  and didnt suffer recurrent  infections;  
shed not experienced increased bruising  or bleeding, or breathlessness; her condition  was 
reviewed six monthly. 
Mrs Js answers  to the above  questions are reflected in her oncologists  November 2015 
letter. The oncologist that she was in remission, hadnt had treatment since 2007, had no 
symptoms and would be seen again by her oncologist in six months time. So the information  
Amtrust used to decide the premium included  the same information  as in her oncologists 
letter. 
I understand Mrs Js point that she wasnt likely  to fall ill with any recurrence of the cancer 
within the two-week holiday.  But the previous lymphoma  wasnt the only medical condition 
shed declared.  Amtrust  would take into account  each  medical  condition  in assessing the 
risk. And importantly shed told Amtrust that for two of her declared conditions  shed  been  
undergoing or awaiting test, test results and investigations for a medical  condition  outside 
the normal, regular  management of that condition. She also told it that for two of her 
declared conditions  shed had to attend hospital  as an outpatient within  the previous twelve 
months. That information was all relevant to Amtrusts judgment of risk. 
Mrs J points out that she was asked questions about  the medical conditions when 
screened by Amtrust. She wouldnt otherwise have had to mention the cancer as she had 
been healed  of it and was well. She says she was in good health then, and has plenty  of 
letters confirming that from before  she took out the insurance. 
I understand Mrs Js point but Amtrust  was entitled to ask her for information  that was 
relevant to its judgment of risk. She properly answered those questions with care, and in 
doing so explained she was in remission from cancer. 
Mrs J also sent us a letter  shed sent to Amtrust.  This was from her oncologist  in May 2015, 
and said she was well with no signs of symptoms of lymphoma relapse or progression.  The 
routine follow-up would  continue. 
Ive read the letter but again  it doesnt  make a difference. Amtrust was entitled  to take into 
account the earlier lymphoma, even though it was in remission  and Mrs J was in good  health 
at the time she took out the insurance. 
I think Amtrust  treated  Mrs J fairly when it assessed  her application and decided the 
premium it would charge  her if she decided to take out its travel  insurance policy. It treated  
Ref: DRN41353714Mrs J the same as it would any customer in the same position  at that time. I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135371