K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained that  
Bank of Scotland plc (the bank) has yet to fully refund interest  which wrongly 
accrued on his credit card account through an unauthorised transaction
The bank  hasnt  complied with Mr Ws request to supply him with information so that 
he can better understand why the unauthorised transaction took place
The bank  hasnt  adequately compensated Mr W for its poor customer  service, in 
particular for ignoring certain letters of his written  to the bank.
background 
Our investigator has concluded:
The bank  is indeed  still due to repay  Mr W some overpaid  interest
Mr W doesnt in the circumstances need to see the information  hes asked for from 
the bank
£75 is adequate compensation for all the banks poor customer  service.
The bank has said it will repay the interest  that the investigator has identified still needs to be 
repaid.
Mr W hasnt accepted the investigators  conclusions in full. Regarding the second  and third 
points above he says:
The investigator hasnt  understood the circumstances correctly.  Mr W would like to 
have the information hes requested in order to better understand why the 
unauthorised transaction occurred. This could have a bearing on his future business 
dealings. 
The bank  gave  Mr W £75 compensation for its earlier poor service. By ignoring  his 
later letters,  the bank has provided further, worse  customer service, for which Mr W 
should be additionally compensated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I havent 
upheld his complaint on the outstanding  points  two and three. 
Information about how the unauthorised transaction occurred
It isnt the case - nor has Mr W suggested  its the case - that the ombudsman service  
requires the bank to produce whatever information  the customer  asks for. The information 
that the ombudsman service  needs  to see is that which is necessary for us in order  to decide  
the complaint.  The information Mr W has asked for isnt necessary for us to decide the 
complaint. Even if it had been required information, we wouldnt necessarily share  it with the 
customer, as it may contain confidential  information  about third parties.
Apart from that, we may require the bank to provide information to the customer where the 
customer has a legal  right to see that information.  I dont think  thats the case  here. My view 
Ref: DRN43726182is that the bank  isnt legally required to give Mr W the information he seeks  even if its in the 
banks possession. 
So I dont  require the bank to provide Mr W with the information hes seeking.
Further compensation for poor customer service
The ombudsman service  takes an impartial view and isnt bound by what  the parties  
themselves may think or decide. Our statutory duty is to decide  what  we think  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I too take the view that £75 in total is fair compensation 
for all the poor customer service to which Mr W has referred, both before and after the bank 
paid Mr W £75. So I dont require the bank to pay Mr W any more compensation under this 
heading. 
Refund of interest
Theres common agreement that the bank has to make such further  payments to Mr W as 
may be required to reimburse him for the extra interest hes paid as a result  of the 
unauthorised transaction. Rather  than put a figure  on it, Ive set out an (uncomplicated) 
formula below to describe how the refund should  take place. 
I note that Mr W has criticised the bank for not refunding the interest  sooner instead  of 
waiting for an ombudsmans decision.  Mr W is entitled to take that view, but in principle I 
dont think its expected that a bank or other  financial business should settle parts of a multi-
pronged complaint piecemeal as the complaint process goes along  although it can do so if 
it wishes. I think the bank  is entitled to wait for the whole complaint  to be decided.  
my final decision
I require Bank of Scotland plc to refund to Mr W such further interest as may be required to 
put Mr W in the position, as at the date of the refund, that he would have been in on his 
account if the unauthorised transaction and its associated fees and interest had not 
occurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372618