K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the decreasing-term  life assurance arrangements  in place for two 
mortgage loans  held with Lloyds Bank PLC by the late Mr O. The mortgages were  changed 
from repayment to interest-only in 2007;  the complaint  is that the bank didnt tell Mr O he 
needed to change the life assurance to level-term cover at the same time.  When  Mr O died 
in 2017, the amount paid out by the life cover was under  £30,000 but the outstanding debt is 
in the region of £228,000.
The complaint is brought  by Mr Os son and son-in-law, who are the joint executors  of his 
estate. They  maintain the bank had a duty to advise Mr O about changing the life cover in 
2007; to put things right the executors say Lloyds should waive  the debt.
background
The mortgage loans  in question were taken  out in stages between 1998 and 2004;  for the 
most part, they were  taken out to meet Mr Os obligations under a personal guarantee hed 
given for the debts  of a limited company hed run previously. Initially, the executors 
expressed the view that the lending itself might  have been unsuitable, and that this should 
be part of the complaint.  
Our adjudicator explained that the time limits in our rules didnt allow us to look at the lending 
decisions; we could only consider the events of 2007 when the mortgages were  changed  to 
interest-only but the life cover not changed to level-term; the executors havent  disputed this. 
After having considered what both parties  had said and provided, the adjudicator  didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. In her view, critical to her finding was that the switch to 
interest-only in 2007 was a non-advice  transaction;  that is, one where the bank was acting 
out Mr Os instructions without giving  him any advice. 
The letter from December 2007  notifying  Mr O of the change  to interest-only included  a 
narrative about  the value  of having  life cover  for the debt and also reminded Mr O that from 
now on, his monthly  payment would only cover  the interest. It was up to him to ensure the 
underlying capital debt was repaid. In a non-advice transaction, the adjudicator considered 
this was enough.
The executors asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  They  maintain 
Lloyds should  have actively pointed out the need  to amend the life cover.
my findings
Im conscious of having summarised events in rather less detail  than has been presented. 
Thats deliberate  and no discourtesys intended  by it. Its a reflection of the informal  service 
we provide, and if I dont  mention something,  it wont  be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some  
instances, have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Ref: DRN44441292I assure the executors Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, however, 
Im afraid Ive some disappointing news for them.  Ive reached broadly the same  conclusions 
as the adjudicator, and for much  the same  overall reasons.
When Mr O set up the life cover, it was on Lloyds advice, in response to his expressed wish 
to ensure the mortgages would be repaid on his death. That was in 2003.  The transaction  to 
switch the mortgages to interest-only in 2007  was conducted on a different basis.  Here,  
Lloyds wasnt giving  Mr O advice; Mr O was, in effect, telling the bank  what  he wanted  it to 
do and it was complying  with his wishes. 
In that situation,  a business isnt required or even expected to give unsolicited advice. 
Lloyds duty here was limited to making sure Mr O had enough information to understand the 
implications of what he was doing. Im satisfied Lloyds met that duty when it wrote the 
interest-only transfer letter in the terms that it did. Theres  more.
It seems  the executors were aware of, and to some  extent were included  in, the discussions 
in 2007 that culminated in the switch to interest-only.  One of the executors, in conversation 
with our adjudicator,  has said they may have  missed a trick.  Without wishing to sound  
unkind, Im afraid the executor has rather hit the nail on the head  here.  If a trick was missed, 
it wasnt Lloyds omission.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
Mr Os estate to accept  or reject  my decision before 4 February  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4444129