K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that his account  with National Westminster Bank Plc was blocked for about 
two weeks and was then closed. He believes that the bank has treated him unfairly and 
discriminated against him. 
background
Mr M had an account with NatWest. It blocked it for about two weeks  meaning he was 
unable to use it during that time.  The bank  wouldnt  tell Mr M very much about what was 
happening  only that it was conducting a review. 
When the banks  review was complete, it allowed Mr M access to his account again, but still 
wouldnt explain what, if anything, had prompted  the review.  It also gave Mr M 60 days 
notice that it would be closing the account  but again without providing any reasons. 
Mr M complained about the lack of information. He also said that one advisor had been rude 
on the telephone and he thought he was being  discriminated  against. He referred his 
complaint to this service  and one of our investigators looked at it. He thought  however  that 
NatWest had acted  appropriately and in line with relevant regulations  which allowed a 
review of the type carried out by NatWest  but didnt require banks to give reasons  for doing 
so. The investigator  didnt believe the bank  had been rude or had discriminated against 
Mr M. 
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Im satisfied first of all that NatWest was within its rights to review Mr Ms account  and that it 
was also entitled  to block it while it carried out that review. It wasnt  obliged  to tell him why it 
was carrying out a review,  and I dont believe it would be appropriate  for me to require it to 
do so.   
NatWest was also within its rights  to close the account and did so in line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations. It gave Mr M adequate time to open an alternative  account if 
he wanted to do so. 
The investigator noted that the bank had acknowledged that one telephone call hadnt been 
handled as well as it might have been; it offered Mr M £50 in recognition of that. The 
investigator agreed that NatWest could have explained things more clearly  but thought that 
the offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances. I share that assessment and dont therefore  
think it necessary for me to award any more. I simply leave it to Mr M to decide whether, on 
reflection, he wishes to accept that offer.
Ref: DRN42131822my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more  to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4213182