K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that, during the course of an application for a new mortgage and transfer  
of equity, Taylormade  Finance Ltd (TMF) told Mr Ms solicitors,  (Mr M says in error) that he 
would be paying  his former  partner £15,000 for her share of the equity, rather than £4,000. 
He wants TMF to pay compensation.
background
Mr M owns a property  jointly  with his former partner, Miss B. The property also had a joint 
mortgage.
In August  2018  Mr M spoke to TMF about  a new mortgage. The electronic notes made by 
the adviser say that Miss B was to be removed  from the mortgage  but wasnt expecting any 
payment. The note goes on to say that Mr M  didnt  want to provide any further information 
about this, because he wanted to discuss it with Miss B first.
On 25 October 2018 an application was made by TMF to a lender for a mortgage in Mr Ms 
sole name. A firm of solicitors,  which I will call C, were  named  on the application as acting 
for Mr M. I understand they were  recommended to him by TMF. The application shows that, 
in addition to repaying the existing mortgage  of about £144,000, Mr M was also intending to 
consolidate about £14,000 of unsecured  debt.  The mortgage application was for £158,900. 
There is no mention of any extra money borrowed  to pay to Miss B.
On 30 October 2018 there is another electronic note which  says that Miss B required a 
payment of £15,000  and that Mr M was to pay this from his existing savings. This information 
was passed to C, who wrote to Miss B about  this.
Mr M was very unhappy about this and complained to TMF. He says that hed agreed  with 
Miss B that hed pay her £4,000, but now she would no longer agree to this and wanted 
more money.
TMF didnt uphold the complaint so Mr M brought it to us where  it was considered  by an 
investigator. He upheld  the complaint. His opinion was that, if Mr M had ever agreed to pay 
Miss B, hed have discussed this with the solicitors. He wasnt satisfied that Mr M had given 
verbal consent for TMF to pass information on to the solicitors. The investigator  also found 
that, although there were contemporaneous notes of what  had been discussed with Mr M 
during the fact find, he could find no reason why Mr M would then later telephone  TMF to 
advise that he was paying £15,000  to his former partner.
The investigator thought TMF should  refund the £295 arrangement fee and pay £500 for 
trouble and upset.  TMF disagreed with the investigators findings  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
Ref: DRN47133292provisional decision 
On 9 October 2019 I issued a provisional decision,  in which  I made the following findings:
I will explain  at the outset  that this complaint isnt about how much Miss B is entitled  to 
as a share of the equity in the jointly-owned property; thats a matter  for agreement 
between Mr M and Miss B, or to be determined  by a court.  Nor is the complaint about  
whether or not, in providing information to the solicitors, TMF breached the General 
Data Protection Regulation; that would  be a matter for the Information  Commissioner.
TMF was engaged  by Mr M to arrange  a mortgage  for him, which  it did. Ancillary to the 
mortgage, there was to be a transfer  of equity transferring the property from the joint 
names of Mr M and Miss B into Mr Ms sole name. He didnt need to borrow  any extra 
money for this. 
Ive looked at the records compiled at the time of the discussions  with Mr M in 2018. 
These notes are contemporaneous,  that is, they were compiled at the time of the 
events described in the notes.
Ive read the statement  provided by the adviser. She has a clear  recollection of what 
was discussed,  both in August 2018 when Mr M said he needed  to speak to Miss B 
about the transfer of equity and again in October 2018 when it is recorded  that Mr M 
told TMF that he was going to pay Miss B £15,000.
Given this, Im satisfied the records show that TMF was told that Mr M would be paying 
his former  partner £15,000 out of his savings for the transfer of equity.  I can see no 
reason why TMF would have plucked this figure  out of thin air. It has no impact on the 
mortgage arranged  by TMF. On balance, the evidence  is persuasive that the 
information came from Mr M.
As the transfer  of equity was an integral part of the transaction, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for TMF to include this information on the email to the solicitors. I cant  
comment on the solicitors actions in relation to the transfer of equity. They  arent 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman  Service and were acting for Mr M in relation to 
the transfer of equity.  
In all the circumstances, taking account  of the available evidence, Im not persuaded 
TMF has done anything  wrong. I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with the service  he 
received, but I can see no basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable to order  
TMF either  to refund the fee he paid for its services  or to pay compensation for trouble 
and upset.
My provisional decision was that I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.  
Mr M rejected the provisional decision but has provided no further  evidence  or arguments in 
support of his complaint. TMF has accepted the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN47133293my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the file afresh and revisited  
my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I can see no reason to depart from the conclusion  reached in my 
provisional decision. Mr M hasnt provided any further evidence  or arguments which would 
lead me to change  the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, which  is that I dont 
think TMF did anything wrong.
my final decision
For the same reasons  stated in my provisional  decision (which  are set out above), I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4713329