K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold her an income protection  
insurance policy.
background
In 2010, while in the process of seeking  a secured loan, Miss C met with an HSBC adviser 
and agreed to take out an income protection insurance policy.  The policy, after a waiting 
period of 26 weeks, would pay a monthly benefit of £200 in the event that Miss C was unable 
to perform her occupation because  of illness or injury.
In 2018, Miss C complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She said shed  been  
pressured into taking  out the policy and that she hadnt wanted or needed  it. She asked for 
her premiums to be refunded.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. It was satisfied that its adviser had made a suitable 
recommendation for Miss C to take out an income protection  policy and had provided her 
with all necessary information about this. It noted  that Miss C hadnt  followed his 
recommendation as to the extent of the cover but had instead  decided to take out a cheaper 
policy which  provided less cover. It said Miss C had been under no obligation to take out the 
policy and could have  cancelled it at any time.
Miss C was unhappy at HSBCs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that the sale had been  carried  out in an appropriate way.
Miss C didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She maintained that she had been led to 
believe the policy was obligatory and said this was why she had taken out the cheapest 
policy she could.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence shows that Miss C met with the adviser on two occasions. He conducted  a 
financial review which revealed that Miss C wanted to take out a loan of £12,000 secured 
against her home. She said that, behind obtaining  this loan, protecting her income was her 
highest priority.  In the event of sickness absence, Miss C was entitled  to full pay from her 
employer for the first 26 weeks  and half pay for a further 26 weeks  after that. 
The adviser went on to outline his recommendations.  These included that Miss C should 
take out an income protection insurance  policy to provide  a monthly  benefit  of £218 payable  
after 26 weeks, rising to £654 after 52 weeks. This policy, which  would cost £54 a month, 
would complement  her employers sickness pay in the event  she was unable  to work 
because of illness or injury.
Ref: DRN47960582Im satisfied that this recommendation was appropriate, and that the adviser had taken due 
account of Miss Cs earnings,  employee benefits and anticipated outgoings, including  her 
loan repayments.  I consider  that he provided  a clear explanation  of the nature of the cover in 
his report. 
Miss C chose not to follow his recommendation but instead opted to take out a lower level of 
cover for a cheaper price.  This was because she felt she could afford  only a small amount of 
cover at that time. The adviser noted her decision and recorded  the reasons for it. Miss C 
signed to confirm shed received a brochure  for the policy in question. Im satisfied that this 
brochure gave  adequate  information about the policy and about Miss Cs right to cancel it.
I see no reason why Miss C should  have felt obligated to take out the income protection  
policy. Indeed,  the adviser  specifically stated in the financial  planning  report that one of the 
options available to Miss C was to rely solely on her employers benefits and any state  
benefits to which she might be entitled. Furthermore,  Miss C didnt see the need  to follow the 
advisers other recommendations to take out a critical  illness  insurance policy and 
unemployment insurance policy.   
In summary,  Im satisfied  that the adviser  made a suitable recommendation to Miss C to take 
out an income protection policy. Miss C chose to vary the level of cover from that which  had 
been recommended  but that was her choice. She was provided with all the necessary  
information to understand  the nature of the cover and her right to cancel. She was under no 
obligation to take out the policy. I have no reason to suppose the policy  wouldnt have paid 
her benefit  if she had needed to make a claim. In light of this, I can see no grounds for 
saying she should  be awarded a refund of her premiums.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4796058