K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) changing her 
packaged bank  account from an Advantage Gold one to a Select  Platinum one in 2015.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint didnt think that NatWest  had done anything 
significantly wrong. Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to look at her complaint  
and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about Mrs Rs complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest did anything 
significantly wrong here. Id like to explain why I think this is the case  in a little more detail.
I should start by saying  that NatWest didnt  sell Mrs R a further packaged  account  in        
June 2015. It chose to withdraw the Advantage Gold account  at this stage. And as it was 
entitled to do this, I cant say that NatWest did anything wrong when it withdrew the 
Advantage Gold account or that it had to continue providing it to Mrs R. 
When NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account it moved all of its customers that had 
this account on to the Select Platinum one. This was because  the benefits  on the Select 
Platinum account  most  closely matched the ones that were  on the Advantage Gold  one. 
I think that its likely NatWest sent a letter to Mrs R which explained that her account was 
being changed to a Select Platinum one as the Advantage Gold  account was being  
discontinued. This letter  wouldve been sent to the address it held for Mrs R at the time. I 
accept that Mrs R might not have  read it, perhaps because  she didnt appreciate its 
significance at the time, but that doesnt  mean that she wasnt  notified of the upcoming 
change. 
In any event, even  if I were to reach the conclusion Mrs R wasnt sent a letter explaining the 
upcoming changes  (I should  make it clear that Im not making  this finding here),  I still need  to 
think about whether  she wouldve done  anything differently if they had been provided with 
this information.  
And I havent seen  anything to suggest Mrs R wouldve done anything differently if she had 
been told that her Advantage Gold account  was being discontinued and that she would  be 
moving onto a different one. 
I say this because  while Mrs R says that her Advantage Gold was a free account,  it wasnt. 
Mrs R had been paying a monthly fee since she upgraded to the Advantage Gold  account  in 
2003. And shed  been sent communications confirming this in 2009 and 2010. As Mrs R kept 
the Advantage Gold package despite this, I cant reasonably say that she wouldve done 
something different  in the event of a direct communication notifying her that she was being 
Ref: DRN47356472migrated onto the Select Platinum account   especially as I think  this is whats  likely to have 
happened.    
So overall I dont  think that Mrs R lost out because of anything NatWest  did significantly 
wrong in relation to the switch to the Select  Platinum account   irrespective of whether she 
was sent a letter telling her about  the switch.  And as a result, Im not upholding Mrs Rs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4735647