K820x#14complaint
Mr Y has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  if his previous motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Y had a telematics (black box) motor policy underwritten by AXA but branded in the name 
of the policy  administrator (the agents). The agents contacted Mr Y as they thought  hed 
unplugged his black box. Mr Y offered  to video call the agents to show that the black box 
was still plugged  in. Later the agents wrote to Mr Y to say that if he didn't plug his box back  
in they would cancel his policy. Mr Y contacted them  and again explained that the black  box 
was plugged in and suggested it may be faulty.  The agents sent Mr Y a replacement  box.
Before Mr Ys policy was due to renew  the agents  told him that he no longer met the 
underwriting criteria. So it couldn't renew  his policy. Mr Y felt that decision was connected 
with the performance  of his black box.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us. Our Adjudicator explained that the decision not to offer 
Mr Y a renewal policy wasn't  connected to the performance of his black box. He said that 
was an underwriting  decision. Mr Y didn't agree so his complaint's  been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it.
who the complaint  is against 
Mr Y has addressed his complaint to the agents  and they have replied to it. And Mr Y thinks 
the complaint  should be set up against them  and not AXA.  All of Mr Ys contacts have been 
with the agents directly.  So I can certainly  understand why he thinks  the complaint should be 
against the agents and not AXA.
But as I've indicated above the agents are the administrators of the policy. And when they 
take actions like threatening the policy cancellation or refusing to offer renewal they are 
taking those actions  on behalf of the underwriter, which is AXA. So its appropriate to 
address this complaint to AXA.
performance of the black box
Its clear that Mr Y wasn't happy that the agents  threatened  to cancel his policy. I can see 
that from the information the box provided it looked  like Mr Y had unplugged  it. But that 
wasn't the case and Mr Y told them it was plugged in. So it would have been helpful if the 
agents had considered that the black box could be faulty, and replaced  it, before  it wrote to 
Mr Y with a threat to cancel his policy. But, after Mr Y received a replacement box the 
problem was apparently rectified.  And I note when responding to his complaint the agents 
Ref: DRN45758102apologised that its service level fell below Mr Ys expectations. And I think thats  reasonable 
in the circumstances.
renewal 
After Mr Ys previous black box policy lapsed he took out another policy  from AXA online. So 
it might  appear to him that the reasons that his previous policy  wasn't allowed to renew can't 
be related to underwriting criteria. Thats because, from Mr Ys perspective,  if AXA 
underwrite the policy that insures him at the moment then he can't fall outside  of its 
underwriting criteria. 
But Mr Ys previous policy was branded in the name  of the agents. And it seems AXA and its 
agents have developed that policy to meet the needs of a specific  customer  base. Its not 
unusual for insurers  to underwrite numerous different policies, with different levels of cover, 
depending on the risk its prepared to cover and the customer  base it wishes to attract. In 
other words, simply because AXA offers other insurance policies that will cover Mr Y, doesn't 
mean that it can't also underwrite other products which Mr Y won't qualify for. And in this 
case its likely the black box policy was designed for a market with a specific level of risk. But 
after AXA changed the underwriting criteria for it, Mr Y then fell outside  that level of risk for 
that policy.
AXA have shown me evidence that the reason it wouldn't offer Mr Y renewal on his black  
box policy was because  of a change to its underwriting criteria. And thats a decision its 
entitled to come to. So Im satisfied the reason AXA refused to allow Mr Y to renew his black  
box policy was solely because of a change to the underwriting criteria. And this wasn't 
something that related to the performance  of the black box or his complaints about that. It 
follows that I think AXAs decision  not to offer Mr Y to renew his black  box policy was 
reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4575810