K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Halifax - which  later became part of Bank  of 
Scotland plc. 
In 2001 Mr and Mrs E took out PPI during a meeting  at one of Bank of Scotlands branches 
to cover each of their incomes and provide 50% of their mortgage  payments in the event 
either couldnt work through  accident or sickness or if either  lost his or her job. The policy  
provided 100% of their mortgage  payments if both couldnt work.
The policy cost £20.44 a month and 100% of the benefit covered  Mr and Mrs Es monthly 
mortgage payment  of £367.50 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2003.
Mr and Mrs E bought life and critical illness cover at the same time as the PPI as part of a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan. But their complaint is only about the PPI, so this decision is 
only about the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs E probably  chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing  to 
indicate theyd  lost out as a result of any failings by Bank of Scotland.
Mr and Mrs E disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Both parties  agree this was an advised sale. That is to say, Bank  of Scotland recommended  
the policy to Mr and Mrs E. This means Bank of Scotland  not only had to provide Mr and Mrs 
E with good  enough information about the policy so they could make  an informed decision 
about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  based on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 17 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
Ref: DRN49232152did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr and Mrs E that they had a choice  about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in December 2001. Both Bank of Scotland and Mr and Mrs E say 
the policy was sold in a meeting. But after so long there are no notes available  now to tell me 
what was said in that meeting The only documentation from the sale that Bank of Scotland 
has been able to provide  is a copy of the insurance  policy terms and conditions and some 
system screen shots  which indicate  Mr and Mrs E were asked questions about  their eligibility 
for the policy.
Mr and Mrs E have  not complained that they werent  given any choice whether to take out 
the PPI or that they didnt  consent to it. Their main complaint is that they were  poorly 
advised. But they have also said they didnt want the PPI.
I accept it is possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs E a choice  about  taking PPI. 
I also accept it is possible Bank of Scotland gave them  the impression they had to take it out. 
But it seems  more likely Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs E the opportunity  to take out the 
policy or decline it, and that they chose to take it out, but have  simply forgotten  in the years 
that have now elapsed. I say this because  theyd had their mortgage without PPI for several 
years. And, had they chosen not to purchase  PPI, or had it been added  to their account 
without either their knowledge  or consent, I wouldve expected them  to query  or challenge  
this shortly afterwards. I think theyd have noticed the PPI cost made  their monthly  
repayments shown  on their statements more than £20 higher than the monthly cost of the 
advance they would  have had in their mortgage offer.  Also documentation this service  has 
seen from other Bank of Scotland PPI sales at the same time shows  the PPI presented as 
optional.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint) it is more  
likely than not Bank of Scotland  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs E as compulsory or that 
it didnt tell them about the policy at all. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs E properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs E lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland advised  Mr and Mrs E with 
reasonable care and skill. I also dont know what information Mr and Mrs E were  given  about  
PPI. For example whether the policys  costs  and benefits were  made  clear  to them and if 
they were told about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover.  I find it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs E agreed to take the cover out without  knowing  anything about it, but I dont know  if 
they received  everything they needed  to know to allow  them to make  an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Bank  of 
Scotland recommended to Mr and Mrs E that they take out their PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs E 
may not have been treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs E have  lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  and needs  at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs E would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland  had done more.  My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs E were  eligible  for their cover and all its benefits
Ref: DRN49232153Mr and Mrs E were  employed at the time, so it doesnt appear they would have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  related to employment terms.
Mr and Mrs E have  mentioned that Mrs E had suffered from a pre-existing medical  
condition at the time of the sale. But the policy did not exclude  pre-existing medical  
conditions so this would not have  affected them.
While  Mr and Mrs E had some  sick pay entitlement and savings,  which could have 
helped them make the mortgage  payments if either was off work ill, the policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to their sick pay and for longer  if necessary  up to 24 
months for each  claim. Mr and Mrs E had limited other means to help them if they 
lost their jobs and the PPI would have left their savings  intact  for the future. So I think  
Mr and Mrs E had a need for their cover  and that it would have been useful to them  if 
either or both found themselves unable to work. It could have helped them financially 
at what would be a difficult time - it could have helped them protect their home.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £20 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.  
And as they were  paying for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it without further cost 
if at any stage their situation  changed or they no longer wanted it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs E may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland  in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr and Mrs E would have  been in the same position  if Bank  of 
Scotland had done more and properly advised and informed them  - I think  they would have 
still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs E have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4923215