K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
STARTLINE MOTOR  FINANCE LIMITED (SMFL) was not of satisfactory  quality. She wants  
to reject the car.
background
Mrs B entered into a HPA with SMFL in June 2018  to acquire a used car. She says that ten 
days after acquisition she noticed  a knocking noise when changing  gear. The car was 
returned to the dealer and repairs undertaken. However these  did not resolve  the issue. The 
car was returned to the dealer and a further fault was found. At this point Mrs B asked  to 
reject the car.
SMFL says that on 25 July, Mrs B contacted it saying that the car had developed a fault and 
although it had been taken back for repair the issues continued. It says Mrs B wanted to 
reject the car. 
SMFL contacted the dealer which explained there was a fault with the engine  mounting and 
that it had ordered the replacement part. It says that Mrs B was due to have the car booked 
in on 6 September but had cancelled the appointment.  
SMFL says that the dealer is allowed the opportunity to carry out a repair.  It also says that 
when buying a used car not all components are new and that they may need  replacing within 
a short  period. It did not accept that Mrs B should be allowed to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that SMFL had been given an opportunity  to 
repair the issues that Mrs B had raised and that this had not been successful. Because  of 
this he thought it fair that she now be allowed to reject the car. Our investigator also 
recommended that Mrs B had any deposit she had paid returned and that she was 
compensated for any time without  the car. He also thought that she should  be paid £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
SMFL did not accept  our investigators view. It said it had spoken to the dealer and it was 
Mrs B who chose not to attend the appointment for remedial work  to be carried  out even 
though she had signed the job sheet. It said that the dealer  had not been given the 
opportunity to complete the repair or confirm if a fault remained.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its merits. I take relevant regulations into account  but my decision is based  on what  I 
consider fair and reasonable given the unique  circumstances of the complaint.
Mrs B acquired a used  car through a HPA with SMFL. Under the regulations,  SMFL can be 
liable if the car supplied  was not of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account the age and mileage of the car. At the time of acquisition,  the car was around three 
years old and had been  driven  around 25,000 miles.
Mrs B says she experienced  an issue with the car ten days  after acquisition. She explained 
that there  was a noise when changing gear. The car was returned and a fault was found. 
Ref: DRN47120682Given how soon this issue occurred  I find it reasonable to accept  than any fault found at this 
time was present  or developing at the point of supply. Repairs were carried out and had 
these resolved the issue I think  this would have been a reasonable remedy. However Mrs B 
says that the issue was not resolved. The car was returned again and a further issue was 
found. This supports Mrs Bs comments that although repairs were undertaken the issue she 
had raised had not been resolved.
As I find it reasonable  to accept that there  was a fault with the car and it is more likely  than 
not this was present or developing  at the point  of acquisition, I thinks  that SMFL is liable for 
putting things  right.
The dealer  has offered  to carry out further repairs and has stated that the required part was 
ordered. However, as a repair  attempt was made and this did not resolve  the issue, I find it 
fair that Mrs B is now allowed to reject the car. 
As the car is being rejected, Mrs B should  also be refunded any deposit she has paid. 
However the HPA does  not record any deposit payment and the SMFL  has confirmed no 
deposit was paid by Mrs B. 
Mrs B was without the car while it was being repaired and investigated. I note that SMFL  has 
said that during  the last repair, Mrs B was without her car for three  days  and that a courtesy 
car was provided. It appears that from the job sheet that the first repair in July took place 
within a day therefore  I do not find that any refund is required for this. If Mrs B has further  
evidence of time without  the car and without a courtesy car then a refund should be made for 
this time.
Mrs B has been caused trouble and upset  by the issue with the car and has had to return the 
car more  than once.  Therefore I think it reasonable that she is paid compensation and I find 
the £200 recommended by out investigator is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED 
should:
1.end Mrs Bs agreement with nothing further  to pay and collect  the car at no cost to her;
2.pay Mrs B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that this matter has 
caused; and
3.remove any adverse information  regarding the HPA from Mrs Bs credit file.
If there were times aside from those mentioned above (one day in July and three  days  in 
November) when Mrs B was without  her car due to repairs being undertaken and a courtesy 
car was not provided then a refund for these periods along with 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement should be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712068