K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain that they were mis-sold a Select Added Value Account (SAVA)  
and Gold Added Vale Account (GAVA)  by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mr A held a fee free account with Lloyds from 1984.
Mr A upgraded to a Select Added Value Account  (SAVA) which incurred a monthly fee some  
time before September 2001.
Mr A further upgraded to a Gold  Added  Value  Account  (GAVA)  which  incurred a monthly fee 
in January 2002. Miss B was added to the account in September  2003.
Mr A and Miss B say that Mr A only took out the SAVA to get a higher  overdraft  and he was 
not aware that he could have kept his fee free account and had an overdraft facility.  So they 
say that the SAVA and the GAVA were mis-sold.
Lloyds has said that the SAVA and GAVA were not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr A and Miss Bs complaint  and decided  that the SAVA and 
GAVA werent mis-sold. Mr A and Miss B disagree  so the complaint  has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr A and Miss Bs complaint.
In my view, I dont think Mr A and Miss B lost out when  Mr A was sold the SAVA and the 
GAVA and Ill explain why.
Mr A and Miss B say Mr A chose  to take out the SAVA and the GAVA  because  on each 
occasion Lloyds  told him it was the only way he could increase his overdraft.
So I need to consider whether or not Mr A was aware the SAVA and GAVA were optional  
and whether he was given  a clear choice in taking out either account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following  reasons.
Lloyds doesnt  have a record that shows when Mr A opened the SAVA, but Mr A says it was 
in about May 2000 when his overdraft  went  up from £200  to £400. Im happy to accept  that 
this was when  the SAVA  was opened  as it doesnt affect the outcome of my decision.
Mr A also says, and Lloyds records show, that eight months after he took out the GAVA in 
January 2002  his overdraft increased from £400 to £600, so he says these facts show that 
there was a link between his paying  for the fee charged accounts and wanting to increase 
his overdraft.
Ref: DRN43312002But Lloyds has also provided  evidence that Mr A had previously  had a fee free account with 
an overdraft for many  years  and that he increased  his overdraft on two occasions before he 
took out the SAVA. And whilst  I dont  doubt his honest recollections I think  its more  likely 
than not that on both occasions Mr A was aware that both Lloyds  and other banks and 
financial institutions offered continuing fee free bank accounts  with overdrafts. I say this 
because they were widely advertised in a competitive market and if Mr A hadnt wanted  to 
pay a fee for an account, I think he would have questioned what he was being offered and 
sought an alternative without a fee elsewhere.
So I think Mr A was aware he had a choice on both occasions and chose to take out the 
SAVA and GAVA.
Lloyds advised  Mr A to take out the SAVA  and GAVA.  So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr A 
with sufficient information about them to make an informed choice. And in recommending the 
SAVA and GAVA,  it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA and GAVA  
were a reasonable fit for Mr As circumstances each time.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including roadside assistance cover, payment card 
protection, purchase protection, and extended warranty. And it offered a fee free and better  
interest rate overdraft  limit and higher rates on savings accounts.
The GAVA contained the same range of benefits  plus others including AA car breakdown  
cover and worldwide travel insurance  with winter sports.
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mr A about the SAVA and the 
GAVA but I think both wouldve  been of interest to him. When  he took out the SAVA he had 
a car and was clearly  interested  in using an overdraft facility.  When he took out the GAVA,  
he had a car, was still interested in the overdraft facility and he says he travelled  up to three 
times a year and did winter sports.
So the SAVA and the GAVA  were useful to him in his circumstances and to Mr A and Miss B 
later when she joined the account. 
Lloyds has provided  evidence that they used the car breakdown cover and travelled abroad 
making them eligible  for the worldwide travel insurance. They  also benefited from the better 
overdraft rates.
So in my view Mr A knew he had a choice when he took out the SAVA and GAVA and he 
chose to take them out. I think the SAVA and the GAVA  were  suitable for Mr A and later 
Miss B. And there  was no information that Mr A didnt receive from Lloyds that would likely 
have put him off taking them out. So I dont think Mr A and Miss B lost out by Mr A taking out 
the SAVA or GAVA.
Ref: DRN43312003my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr A and Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4331200