K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is about his trading account with Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain) and about 
events within  it on 5 and 6 February 2018  (the dates). He says Gain:
Unreasonably applied a margin call to his account and forced liquidation of his 
Options based  spread-bets without his consent.
Breached its obligations in terms of Best Execution by manipulating its prices.
Failed to properly disclose evidence in the course of his complaint.
Mr S seeks  compensation for financial loss. In his submissions, some of the same 
references to financial  amounts have been made in both USD and GBP. However, it 
appears that the correct currency for the account was/is GBP.
background
Mr S held his account with Gain for over 10 years.  He refers  to 13 years  professional  
experience in investments (at senior levels in internationally renowned  entities), refers  to 
trading mainly in US based  markets in his Gain account and refers to a history of trading that 
was profitable for both parties and was broadly trouble free until the events  of the dates.  
He says his routine trading approach  familiar  to both parties   on any trading day began  
with him waiting for the US equities market  to open at 09:30 US EST (14:30 GMT) in order to 
have accurate pricing, liquidity and volatility indications for US equities options. He says 
there was an arrangement for Gain to do the same in order to accurately value and price his 
open positions and that this was necessary because Gain did not provide accurate indicators 
from 16:30 GMT  onwards (the previous day)  instead it provided its own fictional Our 
Price  and because  there is limited liquidity in the market prior to 09:30 US EST. Mr S says 
part of the arrangement with Gain was to trade over the telephone at mutually agreed prices, 
not and never at its Our Price.
On the dates, Mr S says Gain  departed from this arrangement without reason; that it valued 
his open positions (S&P  and Dow based  positions) at inaccurate prices  in the morning 
(GMT) around six hours before the US market opened; that this resulted in Gains claim that 
a margin breach of around £500,000 had occurred; and that Gain  unreasonably required him 
to fund the account in this amount within an insufficient time period.
Mr S also says that his positions were hedged; that another  routine arrangement he had with 
Gain was to buy back futures positions before  the US market  opened;  and that Gain did not 
give him the chance to do this on 6 February  before it liquidated  positions  in his account.  He 
argues that this was unreasonable, given that the positions were hedged; the account had a 
cash balance of around £800,000 at the time; contrary  to what  Gain said, the margin close  
out was not triggered  by an increase in volatility (given that volatility had dropped  at the 
relevant time); contrary to what Gain said, his account had not breached  the margin  close 
out level at the time; contrary to what Gain said, the profit/loss status of the account was not 
negative and was actually positive; and no margin call event  had actually happened.
Gain mainly says as follows:
There is reliable telephone recording evidence of the events on the dates; within this 
evidence there  is proof  that Mr S and his account manager had a succession  of 
discussions during  the relevant morning; the discussions  mainly featured  notice to 
Ref: DRN43948442him about, and his awareness of, the margin breach and margin  call in his account, 
his attempt to fund the account in order to avoid  liquidations, his account manager 
giving him time to do so and then his agreement to liquidate the relevant positions 
when it became clear  that he could not raise the requisite funds in time.
There is no evidence to support Mr S claim about the agreed arrangement  he has 
referred to, especially not in the context of a margin call. The terms agreed for his 
account refer to and explain its Our Price (in the context of its 24 hours  markets  and 
24 hours indices), Mr S was an experienced and active  trader who was very familiar 
with this and he had never previously had a problem with it or complained about it.
Mr S argument rest only on his claim about the non-existent arrangement with Gain  
(in relation  to his US based trades). However, the fact is that he had non-US based 
positions which accounted for around half of the losses that triggered the margin  
breach. Losses which would have worsened  if the liquidations were delayed.  These  
non-US based  trades  could  not have been  subject  to the alleged and non-existent 
arrangement about awaiting the opening  of the US market.
Overall it was entitled  under specific terms of the account (which  it has referred to) 
 to proceed with the liquidations as it did in the circumstances as they were and in 
doing so it also sought to mitigate  losses for Mr S.
In terms of the liquidation process, it acted consistently with the terms for the 
account. They were  executed in the circumstances of the market at the time.  It was 
not obliged to execute  and did not guarantee the execution of  close  outs within a 
particular time frame or at a particular level. It was Mr S sole responsibility  to 
manage and monitor  his account  at all times, including  for the purpose  of ensuring it 
remained sufficiently funded and for the purpose  of avoiding margin  breaches.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He issued an initial  view and thereafter  
provided a final view on it. First, he mainly  concluded as follows:
The complaint  should not be upheld.
The parties had several telephone conversations on 6 February and the recordings of 
those calls show that the following was mainly discussed  volatility,  the need to 
widen Gains spreads, the deterioration of Mr S open positions,  the breach  of margin 
requirement in his account, his need to fund the account in order  to avoid closure of 
his positions, his inability to do so and his acceptance of and agreement  to the 
closure of his positions in these circumstances.
There is no evidence of the arrangement that Mr S says he had with Gain. Instead, 
there is evidence that Gain  acted  in line with the terms for the account.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome.  He set out his claim of price  manipulation, by Gain, and 
claim that his account was never  in margin breach mainly as follows:
At 10pm on 5 February 2018  he had spare  trading resources of £93,000 and equity 
of £238,000 in his account, and these figures were  marked  by Gain itself.
By 8am on 6 February  2018  Gain says his account was £500,000 in breach of 
margin. It is implausible that this could have happened, given that equity market 
prices at the time were broadly unchanged  from what they were the night before.
Based  on accurate  prices and his overnight  hedging activity  (which, in itself,  reduced 
risks in the account), his account  equity at 8am on 6 February had fallen by only 
£40,000 to £198,000,  so his account  was nowhere near a margin breach   in 
contrast, Gain falsely claims the account was £500,000  (negative)  in margin breach.
Gain also falsely claims that volatility  was higher on 6 February; this was not so; 
volatility was lower  at 8am on 6 February  (which is the time at which Gain valued his 
Ref: DRN43948443account and/or positions) than it was the previous evening, and no margin  breach 
occurred the previous  evening; Gain also misguided  itself by presenting evidence of 
volatility up to 6am on 6 February  when  its actions were based  on valuation  of his 
positions at 8am on 6 February.
In addition, it is important to note that Gain kept its prices frozen overnight so this 
calls the basis for its valuation into question and that up to 7.58am he was still able to 
place a hedging trade which means around two minutes before Gain says he was in 
margin breach he must have had equity above the margin requirement  of £145,000.
The investigator probed further  into the case and put focused enquiries   based on Mr S key 
points  to Gain.  He then presented the following main views:
He retained the conclusion  that the complaint  should not be upheld.
He put Mr S comparison of volatility on 5 and 6 February to Gain  and was satisfied 
with its response (and evidence to support its response); it said volatility did not affect  
his positions on 5 February to the extent  of causing a breach of the margin  
requirement; evidence  shows  three  potential such events in the evening of 5 
February but Gain says they were caused  by unreliable prices so no action was 
taken and when  prices became reliable it was clear that margin had not been 
breached  so, again, no action was taken.  In contrast,  there  is evidence  that the 
account was in breach of the margin requirement in the morning of 6 February  and 
based on prices from Gain that were  reflective  of prices in the underlying market. 
Prices were fluctuating  that morning, so this explains why the size of the margin 
breach also fluctuated  until the positions were  closed.
Express terms for the account  made  it legitimate for Gain  to close the positions as it 
did in the circumstances as they were.
Before doing  so, Gain gave Mr S time in the morning of 6 February  to take action to 
address the margin  breach, there is telephone  recording  evidence  of this and it is 
when he advised  that he was unlikely  to have funds  to deposit before 16:00 on the 
day that Gain decided  it had no option but to close the positions. Mr S acknowledged  
and appeared  to accept this.
Mr S positions were closed on prices  that were  reflective of the underlying market.
The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I consider it helpful  to first set out key fundamental information relevant to the complaint. I 
will then address evidence of the state of Mr S account on the dates and the core issues  in 
his complaint.
Markets
Evidence of Mr S Options  based  spread-bets is that they were  in the following markets:
UK 100  Gain says the underlying exchange  for this was the Intercontinental 
Exchange which  traded between 8am and 9pm.
Germany 30  Gain says the underlying exchange for this was the Eurex Exchange  
which traded between 8am and 4.30pm.
Ref: DRN43948444US SP 500  Gain says the underlying exchange for this was the Chicago  Mercantile  
Exchange (CME)  which traded between 8am and 9.15pm.
Wall Street  Gain says this too was based  on the CME and on the same trading  
times (with online trading between 2.30pm and 9.15pm).
Gain says it offered trading (and prices)  to match  the above times; that in the case of Wall 
Street trades  prior to 2.30pm telephone trading  was available; and that all of Mr S close  out 
trades were  hedged by Gain  on the relevant exchanges, where it took out corresponding 
trades.
Pricing Terms and Gains Prices
Gains Trade and Order  Execution  Policy (TOEP) set out the relevant terms for the pricing  
of trades  in Mr S account. The following TOEP  provisions are noteworthy:
Gain was the principal and sole execution venue  for the trades.
Its prices were  calculated with reference  to the prices of the relevant underlying 
instrument (obtained from third party exchange or market participant sources).
Its prices were  reflective of the prices for the relevant underlying  instrument but not 
identical to those  prices, as adjustments had to be made for factors  such  as its 
spreads and liquidity issues. 
In volatile circumstances no guarantee existed that price  changes in the underlying 
market would be reflected in its prices as its ability to update  its prices  may be 
limited.
Its prices outside the trading times for the relevant underlying  instrument can be set 
by reference to alternative underlying  instruments that are traded and can be 
adjusted in response to supply  and demand  from its clients;  in these circumstances 
its spread is generally wider.
All trades  are executed at Gains Our Price.
Gain has provided its pricing tick data for the relevant markets from 8 am on 6 February.  
Due to the passage of time it says it does not have access to the price feeds from which they 
were derived   but it has referred  to screenshots from Bloomberg for the Wall Street  market  
to support its claim that its prices were broadly reflective of the market. 
Account activity information  shows that the margin breach in Mr S account  was recorded as 
happening mainly  between 08:00  and 08:03:24 on 6 February. The pricing data covers this 
period. As the investigator noted,  the account  activity information shows  that three previous 
(or potential) margin breaches happened  (between  20:05 and 21:04 on 5 February)  but Gain  
says they were based on volatile/unreliable prices  which appears to match  Mr S 
description of volatility  being  worse  at the end of 5 February than it was at the beginning of 6 
February.
Margin Requirement and Margin  Close Outs
Sections 10 and 11 of the terms for Mr S account  set out what  I consider to be common  
provisions in this respect. 
I do not consider  that the matters of margin requirement and margin  close out levels  are in 
dispute  Mr S is quite  clear that the core issues in his case are that his account balances 
were never in breach of the relevant levels, that Gain  valued  his US based  positions 
prematurely at 8 am on 6 February  (instead of 14:30  onwards on the day when the US 
Ref: DRN43948445market was open and prices  became  reliable) and that it did this contrary to an agreed 
arrangement.
For the sake of completeness, and in summary,  sections  10 and 11 essentially provided,  in 
practical terms, that it was Mr S responsibility to maintain requisite margin in his account in 
order to open  trades  and to maintain opened trades;  that margin  requirement information 
would be available  to him on the trading platform;  that the margin requirement  would be 
dynamic over time depending on the state  of the account and had to be monitored by Mr S; 
and that where  the margin level in his account reached or fell below the margin  close  out 
level  with information about both levels available to him on the trading  platform   that 
constituted an event of default  which entitled  Gain to close all and any of his open positions,  
with or without notice,  at its Our Price  at the time of closure(s).
Overall and based on the balance of available evidence, I consider that Gain  acted 
consistently with these terms in Mr S case.
Mr S account on the dates
The margin  requirement  in Mr S account on the dates was dynamic and account activity 
information shows that it was broadly between £140,000 and £151,000  in the period 
between the end of 5 February and the beginning of trading  on 6 February.
There is a contract note which shows that up to, and as of, 10pm  on 5 February the exact  
margin requirement in the account was £145,537.62; there was net equity of £238,578.77 in 
the account; and there were trading resources of £93,041.15  in the account. I consider this a 
good starting point  in terms of considering what thereafter happened in the account   up to 
the period around 8am to 8.03am on 6 February  when the margin  breach was recorded. 
The account  appears to have been  in a healthy  position as of 10pm  on 5 February. Another 
available contract  note covers the period from 10pm  on 5 February  to 10pm on 6 February. 
The state of the account at the latter  time is summarised but I consider this of less use, given 
that it is the state of the account between the former  time and around 8am to 8.03am on 6 
February that is of more  relevance. There was a sizeable  amount of trading activity  during 
this period (up to 8am on 6 February) with many new positions opened, some positions  
partially closed and some fully closed. 
An initial observation in this respect is that a simplistic approach of comparing the account 
as it was the night  before  against  the morning after would not be reasonable. The trading 
activity in between  produced a sufficiently significant  change  of circumstances that defeats 
such a comparison.  Numerous Wall Street, US SP 500 and Germany  30 trades were made 
almost every  hour between  11pm on 5 February and 8am on 6 February. I appreciate  some  
were probably the hedging trades  that Mr S has mentioned.  
I note the above  because  there appears to be a suggestion within Mr S arguments that a 
simplistic comparison is applicable. I disagree, for the above reason. I understand the point 
he has made about prices  fluctuating overnight and then returning to levels  similar to those 
pre-fluctuations in the morning  so little changed  in this respect. However, the point  I note is 
that new trading  activity  inevitably created  a change of circumstances in the account 
overnight and into the following morning.
Relevant to the above  is Mr S claim that he was able to place a trade  at 7.58am on 6 
February and the inference he invited us to draw from this  that is, his ability  to do so 
Ref: DRN43948446conflicts with Gains claim of a margin breach two minutes thereafter. The contract  note 
shows a trade placement at this time, but I do not consider that this conflicts with the margin  
breach recorded  from 8am onwards.  Evidence from Gain  concedes  that the account  was 
above margin requirement at 7.23am and it was not recorded as being in margin breach until 
8am. It is plausible, and it looks  to be the case,  that the account remained above  margin  
requirement at 7.58am,  but this does  not automatically mean  subsequent events (between  
the open positions and pricing for them) could not have caused the margin breach  two 
minutes later.
Mr S also argues that Gain  kept the Wall Street prices frozen overnight so this too would  
have meant  less (or no) negative price movements to affect his account.  I disagree with this 
too. As stated earlier above, the TOEP confirms that prices continued to be derived and 
applied for markets outside trading  times. If his argument is based on the arrangement  he 
alleges, I address  that allegation further  below.
Account activity information  shows that at 8:00:56 on 6 February, following all the trading  
activities up to that point (including  the ongoing price  movements related to the open trades), 
margin requirement in Mr S account was £150,147.63;  there was net equity of minus 
£323,252.35 in the account; and there were trading resources of minus  £473,399.98  in the 
account. This led to the margin breach in the account. Over the next six minutes  the 
accounts negative  net equity and negative trading resources  fluctuated  upwards. On the 
face of this evidence, the margin breach and close outs that followed were legitimate.
Mr S allegation of price  manipulation  must be addressed in this point. It is his argument that 
the calculations  of these negative figures  were wrong because they were based on false 
prices. As stated above, we have Gains pricing information (from 8am on 6 February) for the 
trades in his account but due to the passage of time it has not been able to provide the price 
feed data (from third parties) it relied upon   in its place and with regards to the Wall Street 
market it invited us to consider the Bloomberg screenshots.  I am also mindful that if anything 
went wrong in the pricing it would have happened around 8am  given that Mr S could trade 
up to two minutes beforehand without  trouble  and the account was not in margin breach at 
that time.
A comparison between  the closing prices  (for the different  trades and from 8am onwards) in 
the contract  note and Gains  pricing  information  for the relevant times does not show any 
notable discrepancy.  With regards to the Wall Street  based  trades,  which feature in Mr S 
complaint, it should  be said that the Bloomberg screenshots  are, in parts, illegible. Other 
parts are legible and show  some  support  for the notion that Gains prices  were reflective of 
Bloombergs but, overall and because they lack the level of clarity I would have preferred, I 
am not quite  as satisfied with the screenshots as, ideally, I would like to be. 
Having said the above, and without  the price feed evidence,  it remains the case  that Gain 
was deriving prices outside the Wall Street  trading times, some parts  of the Bloomberg 
screenshots show some support for the fairness of its prices  and I do not have sufficient 
evidence to conclude  that its prices were not reflective of the relevant or, as the TOEP   
allowed outside trading times, alternative underlying market. 
On balance and based on all the points  I have addressed above, I am not persuaded to 
accept Mr S allegations about Gains  prices  at 8am on 6 February. In terms of relevance to 
the margin breach  in his account,  I am also very mindful of Gains  point about non-US based 
trades in his account contributing significantly (around half) to the margin breach. Available 
evidence appears  to support this. I consider it a valid point, given that the underlying  markets  
Ref: DRN43948447for those  trades were active at the time and there appears to be no basis to question Gains 
prices for them  I have  not seen such basis. The margin breach happened for reasons 
including but also beyond the US based  trades and it could be argued that it would probably 
have occurred on the negative movements of the non-US based  trades  alone.
Margin Breach
As treated above, the balance of available evidence says Mr S account was in margin  
breach as recorded by Gain. The terms for the account permitted  Gain  to behave  as it did in 
response to this. There is evidence to show  that it sought to assist Mr S in the 
circumstances. He was aware of his options  to address the margin breach by closing  
positions and/or funding  his account,  and he had ample time and opportunity to do both. The 
available telephone recording evidence supports this finding.  
It should also be said that the same  evidence lends no support to Mr S claims about an 
arrangement with Gain  which I address further below  or his present dispute about  prices. 
He raised neither during  the conversations. He presented himself during the calls as 
essentially accepting the margin  breach  situation and as an account holder seeking to 
negotiate concessions  with Gain with regards to addressing it. 
The main  concession was the time he needed (and was given) to try to arrange a transfer of 
funds into the account to address the margin breach. However, when it became clear that 
the promised transfer would not be as prompt as required  in the context of the ongoing 
risks within open positions  that could worsen the margin  breach  and debt in the account   
Gain took the reasonable decision to conclude its concession to Mr S and to close  the 
remaining open positions. Contract  note evidence shows that closures were suspended from 
around 8.39am  and then resumed from around midday, so it appears that Mr S was given 
over three hours to try to resolve the matter. Like the investigator, my understanding of his 
verbal response to Gains decision is that he accepted and agreed, perhaps reluctantly, to it.
Arrangement with Gain
In straightforward terms, there  is no independent  or documentary evidence to support Mr S 
assertion of a special  pricing arrangement with Gain or his description  of that arrangement  
(as summarised in the background section above). Gain  disputes  the assertion.  I have  
considered Mr S references  to past events  which support his assertion and I accept  that 
there could  have been occasions in the past during which  Gain applied pricing concessions  
similar to what  he claims to have been  an agreed  arrangement  but I have not seen 
evidence of an agreed arrangement.
As mentioned above, Mr S made no standing about  an agreed arrangement or Gains 
breach of such an arrangement within the telephone recording  evidence that has been 
shared with us. Instead, he was attempting to negotiate  an arrangement afresh  with regards 
to addressing the margin breach. 
Given the significant professional investment experience and significant trading experience 
he had/has I consider it more likely  (than  not) that he would have realised the importance of 
having any such special  pricing arrangement recorded in a manner  that showed it was 
binding upon  Gain. He actively  traded in very high values. In this context and with his level of 
experience and expertise he ought  reasonably to have sought the security  of having such  
record. That does not appear to have  been  done  and no such record  appears to exist. 
Overall, I conclude  that whilst Mr S might  sincerely  have believed  an arrangement existed 
Ref: DRN43948448his behaviour before and after the margin  breach does not show that he believed  it was 
binding on Gain;  Gain disputes his assertion in this respect and there is no evidence  that 
such an arrangement, binding upon  Gain, existed.
Conclusion
For the reasons  given  above, I am not persuaded to uphold  Mr S complaint.  I have not 
disregarded his secondary complaint issue about  disclosure of evidence  by Gain. On 
balance, I am also not persuaded to uphold this. I appreciate that he wanted and sought 
information from Gain that he has not received, but I need to be satisfied that Gain has 
unreasonably withheld available  information from him. On balance,  I have not seen enough 
to draw this conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4394844