K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P took receipt of a new convertible  car in June  2016. He funded  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
He complained to them  in September  2017 and said he wanted to reject the car and 
terminate his finance arrangement because the car was of unsatisfactory  quality. He said 
hed had to return  it to the dealership  on many  occasions, as follows:
November 2016  - reports comfort access system fault but dealership cant replicate;
July 2017 - bodywork denting too easily dealership  cant  identify a problem,  shock  absorber 
replaced;
August 2017 - Mr P reports a noisy suspension. Dealer cant  replicate. Mr P also complains 
of juddering and says he was unable to stop on a motorway. No fault found;
September 2017 - suspension  noise  reported  again.  Front brake pads changed;
October 2017- suspension fault reported  again. Rear brake pads replaced;
January 2018  - roof leak reported. Mileage 10,303. Dealer cant replicate;
January 2018  - roof still leaking. Dealer  cant replicate;
April 2017- roof still leaking. Dealer cant replicate;
September 2017 - roof still leaking.  Dealer identifies  fault and replaces the seal.  Gearbox 
software updated to prevent judder which Mr P says is still present. Mr P complains  to 
BMWFS.
BMWFS said there  was no proof  the issues Mr P complained of were  present when he took 
receipt of the car. They said they were  only responsible for the quality of the car at the point 
of supply and that issues  that presented themselves  later were Mr Ps responsibility.
So Mr P referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. He 
explained that when we considered whether a car was of satisfactory  quality we would also 
consider whether it had shown itself to be suitably durable. He didnt think this car had been 
as he thought it reasonable to suggest that a roof should be waterproof and this car had 
been leaking  since quite  early on.
So the investigator suggested  BMWFS allow Mr P to terminate  his contract with them  and to 
reject the car. He thought  they should  refund  Mr Ps deposit; pay him £200 to compensate  
him for the inconvenience caused  and refund 5% of all of his monthly instalments from 
January 2018  in respect of the loss of expectation hed experienced.
BMWFS didnt respond so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Ref: DRN44392302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr P. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied or not durable and this fault made the car not of 
satisfactory quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right. 
I think a reasonable  person would consider a key feature of a car was the ability  to keep 
water out and keep  its occupants dry. I dont think a reasonable person would therefore  think  
a car had shown  itself to by suitably durable  if it developed a leak after only 10,000  miles of 
driving. In those circumstances Id expect BMWFS to be given  a chance to repair the car but 
here, I think  theyve had that opportunity  as the car has been returned  to the dealership  on 
several occasions and the leak persists.
So I think it would now be fair to allow Mr P to reject the car. BMWFS should refund his 
deposit with interest  as hes been  deprived  of that money whilst funding an unsatisfactory 
vehicle. I would also agree that they should return 5% of the monthly instalments Mr P has 
made since the fault came to light in January 2018  as hes experienced a lack of enjoyment.  
Hes also been inconvenienced  by these matters  and I can see hes had to return  to the 
dealership very frequently to have issues looked  at. In those circumstances, I think BMWFS 
Ref: DRN44392303should compensate  him for this distress and inconvenience and I would agree with the 
investigator that £200 would seem sufficient.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund  5% of all instalments paid from, and including, January 2018,  in respect of 
loss of enjoyment;
remove any adverse reports that may have been  made  to Mr Ps credit file in relation 
to these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4439230