K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2011.  Mr C says Close Motor Finance Limited (CMF) mis-sold him 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr C says that he doesnt recall much  about  being sold the PPI  but he does recall 
being told that he needed to take out the policy in order to get the finance he was taking. 
But CMF has provided a call recording of the conversation that took place when  the PPI 
was sold. The advisor presented the policy as optional  and separate to the finance, 
and checked that Mr C was happy to proceed  with the cover.  Mr C confirmed that he 
was. And as the hire purchase  agreement had started a month before the PPI was sold,  I 
dont think Mr C wouldve thought he needed to take it out in order for the finance to be 
approved. So I think CMF  made  it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this as it was 
so long ago.
CMF recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. And although Mr C was self-employed, it 
wouldnt have been any harder  for him to make  a claim than someone who was 
employed. 
Its possible the information CMF gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
This means CMF doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But CMF  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
CMF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  CMF didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, CMF  has basically  offered  to pay back the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN42598682Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about not being able 
to make a claim on the policy. I can see that Mr C did attempt to make a claim on the policy  
 but it looks like this was declined, and then Mr C cancelled the policy.  However, my 
decision is based on whether or not the policy was mis-sold to Mr C at the time he took it out 
 and as Ive explained above, I dont think that it was, so this point doesnt change  my 
decision.
If Mr C wanted  to see if he could make a back dated  claim, he could contact the underwriter 
of the policy  if he wanted to.
what the business needs  to do
CMF has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. CMF should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
CMF should pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. CMF should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Close Motor Finance Limited does  not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Close Motor Finance Limited does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4259868