K820x#14complaint
Mr P, secretary and representative of Company W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC for short) has treated the Company unfairly in relation to closing its account and how 
it paid it the balance of the account  when it closed  it.
background
Mr P says the Company account  has been closed unfairly by HSBC and wouldnt pay the 
outstanding balance to an individual as the Company no longer has an account. Mr S, a 
Director of Company W has asked Mr P to represent Company W.
HSBC says that it required information from the Company in order to meet  its know your 
customer obligations. It repeatedly asked Company W to provide this but it didnt do so. 
HSBC told it if it didnt  cooperate its account  would be closed. So when it didnt receive the 
information required it closed the account. It has refused to pay the money in the account at 
time of closure to an individual  as its the Companys money  and should be paid to the 
Company.
Mr P complained on behalf of Company W. HSBC felt that its position with regard to this 
complaint was fair in the circumstances.  Mr P didnt agree.  So he brought the Companys 
complaint to this service.  The investigator did not agree with Mr P and said HSBC response 
was reasonable.  As Mr P remains unhappy  his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
I should make clear here that this decision  only deals with the closure of the Company 
account and HSBCs approach to paying  the closing  balance  away from the closing account. 
I can see Mr P has made a separate complaint about HSBCs customer service prior to the 
closure of the account. This is being  dealt with separately here under complaint reference 
number 21786321.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
I can see that HSBC wrote to the Company explaining what it needed to complete its know 
your client obligations  (known as Safeguard)  in November  2017 saying if it didnt receive  it 
then there  was a risk it would close the account.  It wrote again in January  2018 saying it 
would close the account on 29 March 2018 if it didnt receive what it needed.
HSBC has provided  screenshots of the automated  warnings it gave to those going  the 
Safeguard review  on its online banking service. I can also see that the Companys online 
account was accessed five times between 24 November 2017  and 17 January 2018. So Im 
satisfied that the Company had been  informed by HSBC repeatedly of the need to complete 
the process required of it for this Safeguarding  process prior to the closure  of the account.
Ref: DRN47877052Im also satisfied that Company W had been properly put on notice of its account being  
closed if it didnt comply with the Safeguard process.  So I dont think  HSBC did anything 
wrong in closing the account in the circumstances.
Company W has said it didnt have another account to pay the balance of the account  into. 
But HSBC  has pointed  out the Company still exists legally and the money belongs to the 
Company so it would  be wrong of it to pay the money to any other entity or individual.  I think 
HSBCs approach is correct on this point.
So all in all I think HSBCs position on the balance and the account  closure  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything  further  on this matter.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc by 
Mr P secretary and representative of Company W. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P on behalf of 
Company W to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4787705