K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Ferratum UK Ltd lent him payday loans irresponsibly. He wants a 
refund of his premiums  and charges with interest.
background
Mr G had four loans from Ferratum between  September 2017 and January 2018.  He said 
they were unaffordable and checks would  have shown  this. Ferratum said it had carried  out 
proportionate affordability checks and it said the loans looked affordable for Mr G. However,  
it offered him £75 as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr G was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought 
Ferratums affordability checks had gone  far enough for loans one and two, but not for loans 
three and four. But he thought that better checks would  have found that Mr G could afford to 
repay these  loans. So he didnt think Ferratum had been wrong to provide the four loans to 
Mr G. 
Mr G replied that he accepted the adjudicators view for loans one and two. But he thought 
the adjudicator  had missed other  outstanding short-term loans he had when hed asked for 
loans three  and four. He said the combined repayments meant that he had to borrow again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G borrowed  £300 (between £340.80 and £388.80 with interest) from Ferratum  four times  
over a five month period.  He repaid  all his loans.
Ferratum was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have  made checks  to make sure Mr G 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Ferratum  had to do.
Ferratum said it asked  Mr G for his monthly  income,  which he said was £3,500, and it said it 
checked his employment. Ferratum said it also carried out credit checks and it said these 
would have shown  any over-indebtedness or poor credit history.
I agree  with the adjudicator that these checks were  proportionate and sufficient for loans one 
and two. These were  Mr Gs first loans from Ferratum and they looked small and affordable  
compared to his stated income.  So I cant say that Ferratum was wrong to provide these. 
Mr G repaid his first loans  on time and so developed  a good  lending history. But he was 
borrowing back to back. So for loans three and four, I think Ferratum should  have  made 
further checks that Mr G could afford his loans.
For loans three and four, I think Ferratum should also have asked  Mr G about his monthly  
expenditure for his normal living costs and regular bills. 
Ref: DRN45280242Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements from the time to get this information, but Ferratum 
could easily  have asked  Mr G for it. From these  I can see that Mr Gs monthly living  costs  
and regular financial commitments totalled  £2,465. So I think that if Ferratum had made 
better checks it would  have found that Mr G had enough disposable income to comfortably 
repay his loans.
Mr G said he had extensive short-term  borrowing at the time and couldnt  afford  to repay  his 
loans without further borrowing. But Ferratum was only required to make affordability checks 
that were proportionate  to the amount borrowed and his lending history.  So, whilst I dont 
doubt what Mr G has told us about his circumstances,  I wouldnt expect Ferratum  to have 
asked Mr G about his other short-term  loans at this time. And so it wouldnt have seen the 
extent of his other borrowing.
So I cant say that Ferratum was wrong  to approve Mr Gs loans. And I dont require it to pay 
Mr G any refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4528024