K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that a van that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Mi Vehicle  Finance Limited,  trading  as Mann  Island,  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A new van was supplied to Mr L for his business under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Mann Island  that was signed in May 2017. He had a number of issues  with the van and it 
was repaired by the dealer under warranty - but he complained to Mann Island in November 
2018 that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality  or fit for purpose and he claimed  
compensation totalling £12,150 for eleven  itemised losses.
It said that the van had been driven  for 27,766 miles and that all of the defects with it had 
been rectified and that it was then of satisfactory quality. It also said that as a gesture of 
goodwill it would allow the finance  agreement to be terminated without further obligation   
and it then offered  to also pay Mr L £500  compensation. He didnt accept that offer and 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr L had 
lost confidence  in the van and that it was fair and reasonable for Mann Island to allow  him to 
reject it. So he recommended that Mann  Island should: cancel  the hire purchase agreement 
and collect the van; refund Mr Ls deposit, six monthly payments under that agreement and 
the hire costs for a van for the period from the date of the last repair  in October 2018 (all with 
interest); and pay him £450 for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  caused.
Mann Island  asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman  and it responded 
in detail to the adjudicators recommendations.
my provisional decisions
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Mann Island  on 9 July 2020.  Both Mr L and Mann Island provided detailed responses 
to that provisional  decision  so I issued a second  provisional to them  on 28 September 2020. 
In my second provisional decision  I said as follows:
We offer an informal dispute  resolution service.  We try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what  we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Although we do take account of applicable law and 
regulations we also consider the overall situation.  So its possible that a court would  
reach a different outcome  to the decision that Ive made. 
The van was supplied  to Mr L in May 2017 and the first repair was to a faulty injector 
in July 2017, the van broke down in April 2018,  there were  other  issues  with it, 
including with the gears and the engine and turbo  then failed in June 2018. Mr L says 
that the van was unavailable  to him because it was being repaired for a total of about 
six months between May 2017 and July 2018. I dont consider that its reasonable to 
expect a new van to have so many  faults within fourteen months of being supplied  to 
Mr L and I consider that the faults are enough  to show that the van wasnt as durable 
as it was reasonable for him to expect it to be. For that reason I consider that the van 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
Ref: DRN43208742The faults have  been repaired but I can understand why Mr L had lost faith in the van 
and chose not to use it. The van had significant  failings, wasnt available to him for 
extended periods  whilst it was being  repaired and, given all of the issues that hed 
had with it, I consider  that it would be reasonable for him to have ongoing concerns 
about the future durability of it. In these circumstances, and as set out in my 
provisional decision, I consider that its fair and reasonable that Mr L should be 
allowed to reject the van.
The agreement included an annual mileage  allowance of 12,000 miles but when the 
vans engine  failed  it had been driven  for more  than 27,000 miles  so a very large 
amount in excess of the annual mileage allowance. The agreement  was for five years 
and it was reasonable for Mr L to expect  that the van would last for five years  and 
hed then have  the option of keeping the van and making the final payment of 
£527.15 or returning the van to Mann Island. Only if he chose to return the van to 
Mann Island  would he have had to pay any excess mileage  charges. The van is now 
being returned to Mann  Island because I consider that it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied  to him and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for Mr L to be required to make any payment  to Mann Island  
(or for any award of compensation  to be reduced) because of that mileage that hed 
driven in the van.
Mr L provided a photo showing the vans mileage as 27,795 in June 2020  which  
would mean  that hes only used it to drive 29 miles since the engine failure. Mr L 
says that the vans been kept in storage  and that hes paid to insure the van whilst it 
was in storage.  I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Mann Island  to reimburse Mr L for the insurance costs in these  circumstances.
If Mann  Island considers  that theres damage  to the van when its collected from Mr L 
which is more than fair wear and tear for a van in these circumstances, including that 
its been in storage for more than a year, I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to arrange for the van to be inspected by an independent expert, at 
its cost, and to charge  Mr L for any such damage that is identified by the independent 
expert on the basis set out in the agreement.  
If the cars mileage is more than 27,795 then I also consider that its fair and 
reasonable for Mann  Island  to charge Mr L for that mileage as if it was excess  
mileage under the terms of the agreement. Any amounts due from Mr L for damage 
or excess mileage should be deducted from the payments to be made to him to give 
effect to this decision.
Mr L paid a deposit of £8,000 for the van. He says that his business wasnt registered 
for VAT at that time but has subsequently become registered and hes confirmed that 
he made a retrospective  claim for a VAT refund which has been paid. Mann Island 
says that the refund  of the deposit  should  be reduced to £3,600  to take account  of 
the VAT refund. Unless Mr L is able to provide  evidence to show  that he should  
receive a larger  refund,  I consider it to be fair and reasonable  for Mann Island  to 
refund £3,600 to Mr L, with interest. I dont consider that the period for which  I said 
that interest  should  be paid on the deposit  should be adjusted.
Mr L has been caused considerable distress and inconvenience  by these events. He 
was supplied with a van that I consider wasnt of satisfactory quality, that had 
significant failings  with which he had to deal and which wasnt available to him for 
Ref: DRN43208743extended periods  whilst it was being  repaired. In these circumstances I consider that 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr L has referred to the tow bar that he had fitted to the van It was his choice to add 
the tow bar to the van and hes had the benefit  of it when  he used the van. Its also 
his choice not to remove  the tow bar before the van is returned. In the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mr L agreed that he wouldnt make  any alternations to 
the van without  Mann  Islands consent and that it will own any additions  made to the 
van. Im not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require Mann 
Island to pay Mr L any compensation for the tow bar.
So subject to any further representations by Mr L or Mann  Island, my second provisional  
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Mann Island  has accepted my second provisional decision but Mr L says, in summary, that a 
decision should be made based on points  1 and 3 of my second provisional  decision and as 
follows:
a refund of £8,400 for the advance payment (adjusted for the recoverable VAT);
there is no damage to the van;
the excess mileage provision isnt applicable;
he should receive a refund of the £420  paid against a separate  invoice raised by the 
supplier in respect of the optional extra (which  was the tow bar) which was agreed 
as part of the original transaction prior to the involvement of Mann Island; 
he should be reimbursed for the cost of insuring  the van when it was in storage;
he should be paid the extra cost of the hire charge  over purchase of the van of 
£4,259.14, and an additional  £8,697.45, all as set out in an earlier letter;
interest of 8% per annum as applicable; and 
general compensation for the time taken  in dealing with this matter (and he says that 
he charges for his time at a rate of £350 a day).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my second  provisional decision.  
I have explained  in my second provisional  decision why I consider that the refund of the 
deposit should be £3,600  and that it should  be reduced for the cost of any damage  to the 
van (if there is no damage then there  will be no reduction for it) and any excess mileage 
(which I do consider to be applicable). Ive also explained why I dont consider that he should 
receive a refund of the cost of the tow bar and the cost of insuring the van when it was in 
storage.
Mr L chose to enter into the hire purchase agreement for the van to be supplied  to him and 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mann  Island to pay to 
him the additional  amounts of £4,259.14  and £8,697.45 that hes claimed.
Ref: DRN43208744I have also explained  in that decision why I consider  that £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  that Mr L has been  caused by these events is fair and reasonable and 
Im not persuaded that a higher award  of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
I consider that the outcome that I described  in my second provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances, its been  accepted by Mann Island and Im not 
persuaded that theres any reason for me to now change  it.
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and I order  Mi Vehicle Finance Limited, trading 
as Mann  Island, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement (other than as necessary to give effect to this 
decision) and arrange for the van to be collected  from Mr L  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund £3,600 to Mr L for the advance payment that he made for the van, adjusted  
for the VAT refund  that he was able to claim (and net of any amounts due from Mr L 
for damage to the van or excess mileage on the basis  set out above);
3.Refund to Mr L the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since  the 
van was returned  to him in November 2018.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £500 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mann  Island  to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Mann  Island  must  give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4320874