K820x#14Complaint
Miss P complains  that Oakbrook Finance Limited  (trading as Likely  Loans) lent irresponsibly 
when it gave her a loan for £5,000. 
Background
Miss P applied for a loan for £5,000 with Likely Loans in September 2018. Miss P told Likely 
Loans that she earned £37,500 a year and had outgoings of £800 a month.  Likely Loans 
approved the application  and funds were  paid to Miss P on 19 September 2018. The 
repayments were £444.25  for 18 months. 
Within a few months  Miss P contacted Likely Loans as she was having  trouble maintaining  
the payments.  Miss P has told us that she entered into an arrangement and has been 
making reduced payments to Likely Loans of £290 since  January 2019.  
Miss P complained that Likely Loans had lent irresponsibly and it responded on 9 April 2019.  
Likely Loans didnt  uphold Miss Ps complaint and said it had completed  reasonable checks 
before deciding to proceed.  Miss P referred her complaint  to our service and it was passed 
to an investigator.  The investigator didnt uphold the complaint either and Miss P asked to 
appeal. She said that it should have been clear  to Likely Loans that the new loan wasnt 
affordable and provided details about her outgoings. As Miss P asked to appeal,  her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P says it should  have been clear  to Likely Loans that the £5,000  it lent her wasnt  
affordable. Ive looked at her application  and the information available to Likely Loans at the 
time to decide whether its lent responsibly.  Whilst I can see that Miss P wasnt  able to 
maintain her loan payments, I dont agree  Likely Loans lent irresponsibly. Ill explain why. 
Miss P says her credit report should have  made  it clear that the loan she applied for wasnt  
affordable. But Ive looked at the different versions  shes sent us along  with copies Likely  
Loans has sent in and I dont agree. I can see Miss P had open credit cards  with outstanding 
balances as well as a hire purchase agreement and a loan. But I havent  found the same 
level of monthly commitments as Miss P has told us about when bringing the complaint.
In response to the investigator, Miss P said she had another loan that she was paying £280  
a month  towards.  But her credit file shows that loan was repaid on 19 September  2018,  the 
same day as she took out this loan. So I wouldnt expect Likely  Loans  to take that into 
account as an ongoing commitment. I can see that Miss P appears to have gone back to that 
lender for a new loan around  this time with repayments of £230 a month. But that loans start 
date is recorded  as 19 September 2018 as well, so I dont think  Likely Loans would have 
been aware of it when  Miss P applied. 
Ref: DRN47272582Miss P has raised other commitments which  were  repaid either before or at the point she 
took out the loan with Likely Loans.  Shes told us that she made a payment for £965  to one 
of her creditors in June 2018.  But, looking at her credit file I can see that repaid  the 
outstanding balance of that commitment in full. Again, I wouldnt expect Likely  Loans  to take 
that loan into account as it wasnt an ongoing  commitment. 
I also note that a reasonable part of Miss Ps financial outgoings wouldnt have been 
apparent to Likely Loans unless she made  them known. Miss P has told us she was paying 
around £850 a month to family members each month but theres  no way Likely Loans would 
have been aware  of that. 
Likely Loans has sent us the information  it used when considering Miss Ps loan application. 
I can see that it checked Miss Ps credit file and looked at the information she provided about 
her personal  circumstances. There was no adverse information and Miss Ps payments had 
been broadly maintained. In addition,  Likely  Loans  applied its lending criteria  to assess the 
application and it passed. Ive looked  at Likely Loans decision to proceed and I think it was 
reasonable based on what  it knew about Miss P. I understand Miss Ps concerns and that 
she quickly found the repayments  to be unaffordable,  but I think Likely  Loans  completed 
proportionate checks to ensure the loan was sustainable. 
Miss P has recently emailed to say other complaint shes made which  are of a similar nature 
have been upheld. But we look at cases individually and I havent found  grounds to uphold  
Miss Ps complaint about Likely Loans. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss P but for the reasons given  above, Im not upholding this 
complaint as I havent found that Likely Loans  lent irresponsibly. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4727258