K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a personal loan. Mr H says Santander UK plc, Abbey National at the time, mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr H says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent and he wasnt  given the 
option to decline  the cover. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think Santander made it 
clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out. I say this 
having seen a copy of his credit agreement which sets out the loan terms to be agreed.  This 
included a section  for PPI which  stated Payment Protection (where requested) . And the 
monthly cost of £15.44 has been entered in this section. Mr H was required to sign just after 
this breakdown, so I think he wouldve seen the information entered  in this section before 
signing  although  I can understand  if he doesnt  remember this now.  I think  its likely  that if 
Mr H hadnt agreed to take out the PPI during their discussions, this section wouldve been 
left blank. And if this section had been  completed  without prior discussion, I think Mr H 
wouldve questioned  this with Santander  when PPI appeared on his agreement.  Mr H signed 
the credit  agreement  so I think this reflected what he wanted at the time. 
Mr H says Santander didnt recommend  the PPI to him. Santander says it did. As things 
stand, there  isnt enough information to determine  this point. But being  able to do so isnt 
crucial to the outcome because, had Santander recommended  the policy, I think it wouldve 
been a suitable recommendation to have made  for the reasons I set out below. As a result, 
Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Santander.
 
As a recommended  sale Santander had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based  
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. Mr H completed  his 
PPI questionnaire stating  he was a lorry driver, but he says wasnt sure who his employer 
was at the time. Looking at the credit application  information supplied by Santander I can 
see that he described his role as clerical. I think its unlikely these two roles are the same. 
So Ive relied on the information from Mr Hs credit  application record, and from what Ive 
seen I dont think he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr H says he wouldve been entitled to up to 12 months worth of sick pay from his employer. 
We contacted his representative on a number of occasions to clarify Mr Hs employment  at 
the time and to ask for evidence of his sick pay. But unfortunately, at the time of writing weve 
received no response. So I cant fairly  and reasonably conclude that Mr H had such  
generous benefits   especially as Mr H wasnt sure who his employer was at that time.  But I 
accept its likely he wouldve received some sick pay. However,  the PPI wouldve paid out for 
up to 12 months for a successful unemployment  claim  and until the end of the loan term for a 
successful accident  or sickness claim. And this wouldve been on top of any sick pay Mr H 
wouldve been entitled to  so these funds couldve been used for other expenses.  
Ref: DRN41873012Ive thought about the level of savings Mr H says he had in place  - which he says wouldve 
covered him for more  than 12 months. But he took out a fairly small loan which  attracted 
interest, so I think its unlikely that Mr H had such a large amount of savings at the time. And 
even if I accept that he did, taking out this loan shows that Mr H wanted  to protect his savings 
for some other purpose. And having  the PPI in place wouldve allowed him to continue to 
protect any savings he did have. So overall,  I still think the PPI was suitable  for him.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr H any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Santander UK plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4187301