K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr M complain  about the interest  rate The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB)  have  
applied to their buy-to-let mortgage.  Theyre unhappy that the bank havent offered them any 
lower interest rates, so theyve been trapped on the high Standard  Variable Rate  (SVR), 
which they feel is unfair.
background
Mr and Mr M have  a buy-to-let mortgage  with TMB. They took it out on an interest-only basis  
in 2007, over a term of 25 years.
The mortgage was initially on a tracker rate, which tracked 1.09% above the Bank of 
England base rate. This ended on 31 October  2009,  and the mortgage has been on TMBs 
SVR since. 
Mr and Mr M say theyve  contacted TMB  several  times over the years asking about new 
rates, but have  been told TMB didnt have any rates available to offer them.  In 2018, Mr and 
Mr M complained to TMB about the interest rate theyd charged  over the life of the mortgage. 
TMB referred Mr and Mr M to an internal specialist re-mortgages team,  and a different lender  
in the same banking  group as TMB  offered them a rate. But this was higher than the SVR 
they were already paying - because the loan to value  of the property was above 100%. TMB 
paid Mr and Mr M £150 to recognise  the inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mr M brought their complaint  to our service. Our investigator explained they couldnt 
consider the interest rate TMB charged more than six years  before they complained because  
the complaint  had been made out of time. But he looked at the interest rate TMB  charged  
within the six years before  they complained, and explained that he didnt think TMB had 
acted unfairly.
Mr and Mr M disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering when Mr and Mr M made their complaint to TMB, I agree with the investigator 
that we can only consider  the interest  rate TMB have charged on their mortgage within six 
years of them making their complaint  so from January 2012 onwards.  This is because their 
complaint about  what happened before then has been made out of time under the rules I 
must apply.  Mr and Mr M have not disputed this, so I will now go onto consider  whether TMB  
have acted fairly within the scope of the complaint  that we can look at.
Not offering lower  rates
When Mr and Mr Ms tracker rate ended in 2009,  TMB had stopped offering new interest rate 
products to their customers. This meant  that if Mr and Mr M wanted to keep their mortgage 
with TMB,  they could  only do so on their SVR. Because of this, Mr and Mr M say they were 
trapped with TMB,  paying  more than they should have been.
Ive looked at the contact notes and can see that Mr and Mr M did contact  TMB over the 
years to ask about new rates for their mortgage, and each time TMB told them they had no 
Ref: DRN49104302rates available. Whilst I understand how frustrating this would have  been  for Mr and Mr M, I 
cant say TMB were acting unfairly  by not offering  them  a new rate, when they didnt have 
new interest rate products  available to any of their customers.
Mr and Mr M have  told us the property is in negative equity, and so theyre unable to re-
mortgage to another lender. I fully recognise the difficult position Mr and Mr M have 
unfortunately found themselves in  the value  of their property has suffered as a result of 
market conditions, which has left them with limited options for their mortgage. Whilst I 
appreciate this has been beyond Mr and Mr Ms control, Im satisfied TMB have treated them 
fairly by continuing to apply the SVR to their mortgage.
In 2018, TMB did refer Mr and Mr M to their internal specialist re-mortgages team  to see if 
there were any lower rates available to them  from another  lender within the banking group. 
But unfortunately the SVR was still lower than the rates other  lenders could offer. Whilst the 
rates offered  were outside of TMBs direct  control,  I think it was right for them  to give Mr and 
Mr M the opportunity to apply for a re-mortgage on a different rate. TMB have paid Mr and 
Mr M £150 for the inconvenience this caused,  and considering all the circumstances I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask them to do anything  further.
I note Mr and Mr M still have over 12 years left on the mortgage  before they need to repay 
the full balance, so there  is a chance the propertys value will increase before then in order 
to avoid having to sell the property at a shortfall. At the moment, it seems Mr and Mr M are 
affording the monthly payments due on the mortgage, so I would expect  their options to 
re-mortgage should improve if the property  value increases enough  in time. In the meantime, 
if Mr and Mr Ms circumstances become such that theyre struggling to make  the payments 
to the mortgage,  its important that they speak to TMB about this as soon as possible. 
TMBs SVR
Mr and Mr M have  said TMBs SVR has remained high over the years, which  has resulted in 
large monthly payments. I can see that since 2012, the SVR has increased once, from 
4.95% to 5.2%  in 2018. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mr Ms mortgage,  and what these say 
about the interest rate TMB can charge. The terms do say that TMB can change  the interest 
rate, for any of the reasons specified.  So under  the mortgage agreement  they are allowed to 
vary the rate. The latest increase in 2018  followed an increase in the Bank of England base 
rate, and followed the general movement in the market at the time  so Im satisfied this was 
in line with industry practice.  Its also worth noting that the SVR TMB  are charging is not 
largely out of line with similar lenders of this particular type of mortgage.
Whilst Mr and Mr Ms mortgage has been on the SVR,  there  have been no Early Repayment  
Charges applicable should Mr and Mr M have decided, and been  able,  to redeem their 
mortgage early and re-mortgage elsewhere. Im satisfied theyve been aware of the SVR 
TMB have been charging, and the fact they cant offer any other rates. And Im satisfied 
theyve known they had the option  to re-mortgage elsewhere, just unfortunately their 
circumstances (which  are outside TMBs  control) have not allowed them  to do so. 
The SVR is a set rate that the bank charges on all of their mortgages that are on that rate, 
and is reflective of the cost to the bank of lending money. Its not variable for individual  
borrowers, and I wouldnt  expect them to lower it for some borrowers and not others   as 
Ref: DRN49104303that wouldnt necessarily  be fair either. As a result, Im satisfied TMB havent charged Mr and 
Mr M an SVR thats unfairly high.
Whilst I empathise greatly with Mr and Mr Ms position,  Im satisfied TMB have acted fairly 
when not offering them a lower interest  rate on their mortgage.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4910430