K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the compensation Barclays  Bank UK PLC has offered him for the 
sale of a payment  protection insurance (PPI) associated with two loans he took out in 2008  
and 2010.
Mr S has also made other complaints  about  Barclays including a complaint about alleged  
fraudulent withdrawals from his bank  account. To be clear in this decision I am only deciding  
if the compensation Barclays has offered  Mr S for the sale of the PPI is fair.
background
In 2008 Mr S took out a loan with Barclays. The loan was for £14,200 to be repaid over 60 
months. At the same  time Mr S was sold a PPI policy. The premium for the PPI policy was 
£1,552.57 which was added to the main loan. So Mr S borrowed £15,752.57  in total.
In 2010 Mr S took out a second loan this time for £20,000. Part of this loan was used to clear 
the first loan. No PPI was sold with the second  loan.
In 2013 Mr S complained to Barclays about the sale of the PPI. It isnt clear  exactly what  
happened at the time,  but it seems  the complaint was withdrawn at some point.
Mr S complained again to Barclays in 2018. Barclays upheld Mr Ss complaint and made him 
an offer totalling £1,737.92.
An adjudicator from this service thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr S didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Barclays has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont  look 
into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Mr S. In this decision I am deciding  whether 
Barclays has calculated Mr Ss compensation  fairly  or whether it needs to do something 
different.
Having done so I think Barclays offer is fair and has been calculated the way Id expect. Ill 
explain why.
When a PPI policy is found to have been  mis-sold the business  needs to take steps to put 
the consumer  in the financial position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold.
This usually  mean the business should refund all the cost of the PPI to the consumer and 
pay compensatory interest  normally calculated at 8% simple  per year.
I can see that Barclays has calculated  the extra Mr S paid each month on the first loan 
because PPI was added  to it. And it has refunded this amount. It has also calculated  and 
paid compensatory  interest of 8% simple per year for the time Mr S was out of pocket.
Ref: DRN46536952Mr S was sold a PPI policy with his first loan, but not the second. The premium  was 
£1,552.57.  The first loan was initially meant to run for 60 months but it was repaid in 2010 
and the PPI was cancelled.  When the PPI was cancelled the insurer  paid a rebate of 
£849.77 which was used to reduce the loan balance. But this didnt remove all the PPI 
premium and some of the cost of the PPI was carried  over into the second loan. 
Barclays has worked out how much extra Mr S paid each month on the second  loan 
because PPI was added  to the first. And it has repaid this amount and added compensatory 
interest.
In total the offer Barclays made Mr S was £1,737.92. Having reviewed the way Barclays 
reached this figure I am satisfied it calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to. 
So, I think Barclays has returned  Mr S to the financial position  hed be in if the PPI had not 
been sold, and I think that is fair.  
I realise Mr S is unhappy with the way Barclays dealt with his complaints. It is unclear why 
Mr Ss PPI complaint was withdrawn in 2013. Ive seen a letter  addressed to Mr S from 
Barclays dated April 2013 in which Barclays state  Mr S withdrew the complaint following a 
telephone call. I understand Mr S may have thought Barclays  were passing the complaint to 
this service. In any event Barclays has paid compensatory interest  of 8% simple,  calculated 
up to date so Mr S will not be out of pocket for the delay in paying him compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLCs offer is fair, and I make  no further award 
against it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4653695