K822xcomplaint
F, a charity, complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc dealt with an error relating 
to a cash deposit. It also complains about the communication  methods offered by the Co-op.  
F is represented by one of its trustees, who I will refer to as Mr F.
background 
Mr F says the Co-op made an error with a cash deposit in May 2018. He discovered  the 
error and contacted the Co-op about  it in August 2018. Mr F says while  the Co-op corrected 
the account it didnt apologise,  respond to his letter or pay £25 as required by its customer 
service guarantee.  He complained to the Co-op again in September  2018 and it didnt 
respond.
Mr F has a hearing impairment.  He complains about the communication  methods offered by 
the Co-op to him, as Fs representative. 
Our investigator said Co-ops  suggested  resolution  was fair and reasonable. He said:
the Co-op accepts  it made errors when dealing with Fs complaint.
the Co-op had taken  Mr Fs feedback  about  offering a webchat service  for business 
customers. It has no current  plans to introduce  this. It offers other  facilities for customers  
with hearing impairment and details are on its website.
the Co-op no longer offers service level guarantee awards. So it didnt make an error  
when it didnt immediately  offer £25 compensation.
the Co-ops offer of £75 compensation (in addition to £25 already offered) was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr F agreed  that the additional £75 compensation offered was fair. But he wants the Co-op  
to explain why it took 11-12 weeks to respond  to his complaint. He also wants  it to confirm  
whether it intends  to upgrade its online banking services for business  customers.  Mr F says 
the Co-op hasnt  accepted its discriminating against  people  with hearing impairments by 
only having telephone contact. He also wants the Co-op to confirm when it told him it had 
changed its terms and conditions so that the service  guarantee no longer apply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The Co-op accepts  it made errors here. There was an error with a cash deposit. While Co-op 
corrected the error, it says it should  also have responded to Mr F. 
Co-op accepts it made another  error  when it didnt  treat Mr Fs September email as a new 
complaint. As a result  it didnt respond correctly and promptly. When  it did respond it referred 
Ref: DRN47030772to the complaint being made in November when it was made  in September.  It asked this 
service to pass on its apologies and offered compensation.
Mr F says that services  offered to personal  account customers, such  as webchat,  should 
also be offered to business  customers (including  charities like F). Mr F says hes been  given  
conflicting information about whether the Co-op  will be offering a webchat service  to 
business customers in the near future. I appreciate how important this is for Mr F and I 
asked the Co-op  for an update on its plans. The Co-op confirmed that it intends to upgrade  
business banking  online, but there  are no immediate plans or timeframe  for this. 
I cant require the Co-op  to offer a webchat  service  to business customers or to bring forward 
its planned upgrade to business banking online.  Its likely to be impractical  for the Co-op to 
offer this service to an individual business customer and it isnt reasonable for me to require 
this.
In the meantime, the Co-op says it offers adjustments and facilities for business  customers  
with hearing impairments,  such as text relay. Mr F can access this using the next generation 
text (NGT) service, via a free app. Action on Hearing Loss  has issued a fact sheet explaining 
the NGT service.  I think the Co-op provides facilities for Mr F to contact it. While Mr F would 
prefer to use webchat, I dont think I can reasonably find that the Co-op has treated him 
unfairly in not providing this.
The Co-op says it no longer  pays service level guarantee  awards  automatically.  It says it 
cant confirm when  it made the change,  but says it was more  than six years ago. Mr F asked 
that the Co-op confirm when it wrote to him about  the change. Its frustrating that the Co-op 
cant do this. But as it no longer offers the service level guarantee, I dont think it made an 
error by not making an automatic payment to F. The Co-op can still offer awards on a case 
by case basis  as it has done here. 
I understand Mr Fs frustration here. The Co-op has accepted it made errors. It offered an 
explanation and compensation of £75 (in addition to the £25 it had already offered) for the 
trouble and upset  this caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to require  the Co-op to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order The Co-operative  Bank Plc to pay £75 
compensation to F (in addition  to the £25 previously offered), as it has agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4703077