K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement  Admiral Insurance Company Limited  have offered after 
his car was written off.
background
Mr B has a car insurance policy with Admiral. He made a claim in July 2018 after he was 
involved in an accident. Admiral decided Mr Bs car was beyond  economical repair and 
offered a cash settlement of almost  £28,000.
Mr B doesnt  agree  with this valuation. He says he checked the value  of his car with Parkers 
guide several months after the accident and found  it was worth around £34,500.
Mr B believes Admirals  valuation is too low because they failed to include in their search  a 
number of optional  extras his car had. These  included, for example, 20 inch alloy wheels,  
heated seats and a multi-function steering wheel (this list is not exhaustive). 
Mr B complained to Admiral. They confirmed theyd included the optional extras and carried 
out valuations  with Parkers, Glass  and CAPs valuation guides. The highest valuation 
returned was the almost  £28,000 theyd originally offered, so they said they werent  going  to 
offer more.
Mr B complained to us. Our investigator  looked into it and thought Admiral had done nothing  
wrong. Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Mr Bs policy, if his car is written off Admiral  will pay him at most  the market  value of 
the car. Market value  is defined as: 
The cost of replacing  your car, with one of similar make, model, year,  mileage and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of your loss.
Weve checked  the value  of Mr Bs car. We used Glass and CAPs price guides  to check  the 
value at the time of the accident. We included the optional extras Mr Bs car had. The values 
given were just under  £25,500 and almost  £28,000.  
By the time we received Mr Bs complaint  in March 2019  it wasnt possible to get a check  
on the value of the car at the time of the accident from Parkers on-line guide.  This doesnt 
provide historical  valuations. So it couldnt tell us the value  of Mr Bs car at the time of the 
accident some nine months or so previously.  
However, Parkers valuation of Mr Bs car in March 2019 was around £26,500. Close to the 
valuations returned  by CAPs and Glass  guides for July 2018.
Mr B didnt check the value of his car on Parkers  until November 2018, so again he wasnt 
checking the value at the time of the accident.  The valuation  he says he found was around 
£8,000 higher than the value Admiral said theyd found on Parkers.
Ref: DRN47698982The value we obtained from Parkers in March  2019 is the same as Admiral  found some 
months before Mr B did his check in November 2018. Its inconceivable that the value would 
have gone up by about £8,000 between Admirals  check and Mr Bs and then back down 
again by the same amount before we did ours.
So, I think its likely the true value of the car on Parkers  guide is as per our check   and 
Admirals  at around £26,500. That would make sense when I take into account the fact that 
£26,500 is between  and close to the other  two guides valuations of the car in July 2018.
And even  if Parkers returned a value of around £34,500  as Mr B claims it did in November 
2018  it seems that would be an outlier  compared  to the other  guides.
In that context, I have  to ask myself whether  Admiral  acted reasonably in coming to the 
valuation they did.
If the value  given by Parkers was as Admiral suggest  and similar to the value we found 
when we checked Parkers around nine months  after the accident - theyve offered Mr B a 
settlement equal  to the highest  valuation of his car. That would  be more than fair and 
reasonable.
Even if we allow  for Parkers valuing the car at £34,500, as Mr B suggests,  the other 
valuations  at around £25,500 and just under £28,000  are closer together  and suggest 
the Parkers valuation is an outlier.  
So, whether  the true Parkers valuation is around £26,500  as is most  likely  or around  
£34,500, Im satisfied its not unfair  or unreasonable for Admiral to offer a cash settlement 
equivalent to the higher of the two other valuations.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769898