K821x#15the complaint
Mrs B says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on her. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs B says this caused her a number 
of issues with using  and managing her accounts. Specifically, shes said she had no access  
to online  banking for around two weeks, that TSB didnt properly deal with a fraudulent 
transaction on her credit card account, and that when TSB cancelled her card after a second 
attempted fraud  it took several weeks for her to receive a replacement. Mrs B is also 
unhappy that shes not been able to open  a new savings account  online.
Mrs B says she relies on her credit  card for day to day spending, so as a result of these 
problems she was unable  to make purchases for things such  as animal food and petrol.  
Shes also said that she spent around 40 hours  of her time trying  to resolve these  issues,  
and so feels that a compensation payment of over £1,000 would be appropriate.
When TSB initially  considered Mrs Bs complaint it offered to pay her £500 for distress  and 
inconvenience and £265 for her phone costs.  Mrs B didnt accept this offer.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought TSB should pay £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mrs B. But the adjudicator didnt think  that TSB needed to compensate  
Mrs B for any call costs, as Mrs B had said she wouldnt be able to provide any proof that 
she had to pay such a large amount for her calls.
Mrs B didnt think this was enough  compensation. So another adjudicator  looked  at the 
complaint again.  He felt that £500 compensation would be more  appropriate to recognise the 
amount of trouble and upset caused  to Mrs B, but agreed that TSB didnt  need  to make any 
payment for financial loss.
TSB accepted this, Mrs B didnt. So the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £500 compensation the adjudicator has recommended  is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint, and Ill explain why.
The fraudulent transaction  on Mrs Bs credit  card account took place  in August 2018, this 
was a payment  for around £5. Mrs B raised  this with TSB in September 2018, but I cant see 
that any specific action  was taken by TSB regarding this payment at that time,  and this 
payment wasnt refunded  to Mrs B until October  2018. 
In October  2018 there was then a further  attempted fraud for a much larger amount, which  
Mrs B contacted TSB about immediately. As a result  of this attempted fraud,  TSB cancelled 
Mrs Bs credit  card. A new card should have been issued to Mrs B, but I can see that there  
were a number of delays  in sending this, and I appreciate  that this will have been  worrying 
and inconvenient time for her. I also appreciate that she spent quite some time trying to sort 
this issue out with TSB and that she didnt  always receive calls from TSB when promised. 
Ref: DRN49307522Ive looked carefully  at the statements for Mrs Bs current account, savings account, and 
credit card. And I can see that before the issues with her credit  card,  she would generally do 
the majority of spending on her credit  card,  and then pay this off monthly  from her current 
account, which she would often top up from her savings.  During  the period when she didnt 
have a working credit card, Mrs B instead did the majority of spending  using her current 
account, and was still topping up her current account from her savings. I appreciate  that 
Mrs B wasnt  able to manage her accounts  the way she wanted to during this period, but she 
did have funds available for spending  and appears to have been able to make the payments 
she needed to.
Mrs B says he wants fair compensation for the worry and stress TSB has caused, and for 
the time she has spent  trying to resolve these issues  and I can understand her strength of 
feeling. But taking  everything into account,  I think the compensation of £500  the adjudicator 
has already recommended  and TSB has agreed  to  is fair compensation for what has 
happened here.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mrs B £500 for the impact the IT issues had on her ability  to manage  and use her 
accounts and the worry caused to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4930752