K820x#14complaint
Mr B took out a mortgage with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in 2008  through a 
government help-to-buy (HTB) scheme which assisted  with the deposit. In 2009  he had a 
meeting with RBS to discuss  consolidating his debts and to obtain help with home  
improvements.
He says RBS advised  him to look at taking  a further advance as this would be more  
affordable than a personal loan, and he did so. He says that as the original loan was through 
an HTB scheme, it wasnt appropriate to take a further advance secured against the property 
in this way. Consent was required from the government which  RBS didnt obtain.
To resolve  his complaint  Mr B wants the debt cleared,  his payments returned and 
compensation for financial distress and lost interest.
background
On Mr Bs complaint to RBS it said it did not recommend or provide advice about the 
advance. 
It acknowledged that it should  have  sought  consent  from the government  and a valuation  
would have been carried out to see if there  was sufficient equity. Instead RBS had relied  on 
the previous valuation it held as this was sufficient for its needs.
RBS didnt agree that it should  write off the loan and refund the interest Mr B had paid.  But it 
paid £500 to Mr B to apologise for not requesting consent and for the stress and upset 
caused.
Mr B wasnt  happy and brought his complaint to this service. But our adjudicator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She said the RBS offer document confirmed RBS didnt 
recommend or provide  any advice to Mr B about the further advance.  She was unable  to 
agree this was irresponsible  lending,  as she hadnt seen any evidence  that RBS gave Mr B 
any advice to take out the further  advance in 2009.
To resolve  his complaint  Mr B wanted  RBS to effectively write off the debt and to refund  all 
the interest hed paid since the further advance was drawn down in 2009. She was unable  to 
ask RBS to do this because whilst an error had been made, Mr B had had the benefit  of the 
money and carried  out home improvements on his property.
The adjudicator said RBS had already credited Mr Bs account with £500 to acknowledge the 
trouble and upset  caused. She considered this fair and reasonable and was unable  to ask 
RBS to increase  the amount it had already paid or to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he would never  have  taken  the further advance knowing what he 
knows today. This information was never  put to him. If hed been aware of the implications to 
his mortgage with the involvement with the HTB scheme he would never have agreed to the 
additional borrowing.
He said that at an educated  guess  the lending would  have been refused by the government 
in 2009 as the property  would have dropped in value. The deposit was not his to take 
monies from. RBS had been guilty of taking advantage and had admitted to it.
Ref: DRN40305682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not sure what implications to his mortgage  Mr B is referring to. The original mortgage 
was for £60,000 plus fees against a stated value of £100,000.  The HTB scheme could 
provide up to 15% or £15,000 and Ill assume it did so. 
The further advance  offer was for £20,000  plus fees. It recorded that Mr B estimated his 
property to be worth £107,000. So the cover  for the HTB loan of £15,000 was £27,000. Its 
not obvious therefore that the government would have refused consent if approached.
While RBS failure to seek consent  was mistaken,  I cant see that it has caused Mr B any 
financial loss or that theres any reason why the lending should be written off.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4030568