K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
background
This complaint is about five loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr K between May 2016 and July 
2017. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 13/05/2016 25/08/2016 3 £250.00 £167.33
2 02/09/2016 28/11/2016 5 £250.00 £101.20
3 29/11/2016 27/04/2017 6 £800.00 £304.93
4 02/05/2017 25/07/2017 3 £400.00 £205.09
5 26/07/2017 05/10/2018 12 £1,000.00 £218.33
Mr K said that he found himself trapped in the payday loan cycle and needing to borrow  from 
several lenders  to pay others off as well as get by month to month.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. She thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have lent 
loans 4 and 5 to Mr K. 
Our adjudicator set out what she thought Mr Lender  should do to put things right for Mr K. 
Mr K told us hes happy to accept  what the adjudicator said.
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator  and said there was a lack of detail and reasoning 
in the adjudicators view and it was satisfied that its assessment process and the checks it 
did meant its lending  decisions  were fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN48422822But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  evidence to say that loans 1-3 shouldnt  have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information  Mr Lender had noted down, including  income 
and expenditure  details  from the time. And given this was early on in the lending 
relationship, I agree  that there isnt enough  to say Mr Lender shouldnt have provided these 
loans to Mr K. 
As Mr K has agreed with the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans, I dont 
think I need to say any more about  them.
But I think that by loan 4, Mr Lender should  have realised that Mr K wasnt managing to 
repay his borrowing in a sustainable  way. I say this because Mr Lender could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr K had struggled 
to repay  some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 barely  a week after he repaid  
loan 1. He borrowed  the same amount  again that hed just repaid, and this time over 
a longer repayment period, possibly  to keep down the cost of each monthly 
repayment
 
Ref: DRN48422823he took out loan 3 the next day after he paid loan 2  and increased his borrowing to 
more than three times the amount hed taken  out on a single loan previously 
he took out loan 4 less than a week after paying loan 3  and although this was for 
less than hed borrowed on the last loan,  it was still significantly more  money  than 
hed started off borrowing from Mr Lender 
by now hed been borrowing and repaying Mr Lender loans for around a year which 
suggests Mr K wasnt using these loans for their intended purpose as a short term 
solution for a one off money problem  or temporary  cash  flow difficulties
it looks likely that Mr K had to borrow again  each time because  he was facing 
financial difficulties after repaying  each previous loan.    
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk Mr K wouldve been unable  to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for loan 4, and for any further loans. So Mr Lender 
shouldnt have provided loan 4, or any further loans, to Mr K. 
And in the event,  I can see that Mr K had repayment  problems on loan 5  he paid this loan 
around three  months  after the original due date after agreeing a repayment plan and 
Mr Lender discounted  the amount he owed by £81.80.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4 and 5, not including anything  Mr Lender  has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr K the total of A plus B.
D.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Ks credit file for loans 4 and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN48422824my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint about  loans  4 and 5.
PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should  take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4842282