K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains on behalf of her late mothers Estate (Mrs R), that the TSB Bank  plc (TSB) 
allowed her late mothers partner (Mr R) to transfer  the balance  of her account  to himself, 
when he had no legal authority so to do. 
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mrs J and TSB so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
After Mrs R passed away, her partner who shared the same  surname visited  a TSB branch. 
He produced Mrs Rs death certificate,  his ID, and declared in writing  that Mrs R had not left 
a Will and that he was her husband.  He asked for the entire account  balance to be 
transferred to him, which  it was. He also gave the bank an indemnity.  It was however 
accepted by Mr R that he was not entitled to the monies transferred, and so he subsequently 
reimbursed Mrs J directly.
Mrs J is the Executor to the Estate  and when she found out she complained to TSB. When 
responding to her they inadvertently addressed letters to her mother, and which they sent to 
the address where her mother  had lived with Mr R. 
TSB did not consider they had acted unfairly  in transferring the account balance,  arguing 
that there  was no evidence or information at the time of the transfer  request to alert them to 
the fact that Mr R was not entitled to the funds. They did however apologise for wrongly 
addressing the correspondence and made  an offer of £325 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience and a further  £50 to cover Mrs Js expenses.
Mrs J was unhappy with TSBs response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint 
but didnt think  TSB had acted unfairly or unreasonably. As Mrs J didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court service. 
What I need to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mrs J. I 
take into account both TSBs view and that of Mrs J. So, my aim is to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I do 
appreciate that Mrs J feels that Mr Rs actions  amount to a clear case  of fraud,  but it is 
beyond my remit to make  any such findings. I would however say this; I note that Mrs J has 
made a complaint to the Police about this incident, and they are of course the appropriate  
authority to investigate the same. She may well be correct in asserting  that Mr R was acting 
Ref: DRN47068612in a deliberate  calculated  manner, intending  to deceive the TSB, but equally it may be he 
was simply confused and mistaken about his entitlement. I appreciate  Mr R declared himself 
to be Mrs Rs husband, which as a matter of law he wasnt, but it may be that he simply 
considered himself in that role and thus described himself  as such. I also appreciate that he 
declared there was no Will, when there was, but it may be that he wasnt aware  of that when 
he made the declaration. All of these matters need  proper  investigation  before a finding of 
fraud might be made, and as I have indicated, the local Police service is the appropriate 
authority to carry that out, should they deem it to be necessary.
Returning to the actions  of the TSB on the day that Mr R presented  in the branch; he 
provided a death  certificate and ID, the combination  of which,  when taken  with his signed 
declaration and the indemnity he gave,  reasonably  led the person with whom he was dealing  
to accept that he was entitled to the funds. I can again appreciate  that with hindsight one 
might make the argument that TSB should have  done more, but I take into account  the 
amount of the sum transferred (under £10,000) and the fact that an indemnity was provided. 
In addition the death certificate can easily be interpreted as indicating Mr R was Mrs Rs 
husband. The issue is one of reasonableness, and I think the actions of the TSB were 
reasonable at that time. Subsequently TSB have  investigated the case, and the money  has 
been returned resulting in no loss to the estate. 
TSB have  candidly accepted they fell into error in wrongly addressing  correspondence  and 
they made an offer of compensation to Mrs J. I have  thought  about  this offer and I think that 
this is very reasonable. It is in fact greater than the awards this service would make for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put 
matters right. I know Mrs J will be disappointed  with my decision but I have  come  to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for similar reasons and so I cant say TSB have 
acted unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
TSB has already made an offer to pay £375  to settle the complaint  and I think  this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. It is unclear to me whether TSB have actually paid that sum to 
Mrs J yet, but in the event  they have not, my decision is that TSB Bank plc. should pay £375 
to Mrs J. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4706861