K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
In 1992 Mrs W applied  for and took out a mortgage  during a branch meeting. At the same 
time PPI was also taken  out designed to protect the mortgage payments in the event Mrs W 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and at the start it cost just around  £10 a month.
Mrs Ws mortgage account ended  in 2003.
I issued my provisional decision of September 2019. Here I said I was likely not to uphold 
this complaint. In summary I said this was because:
While  Nationwides mortgage application  required a tick not to take out PPI, which I 
acknowledged was not typical, in the particular circumstances of this complaint and 
in the context of a branch meeting about a mortgage, I thought  it likely  Mrs W chose 
and agreed to take out PPI.
Nationwide might not have given Mrs W all of the information she needed  about  PPI 
in a clear and timely manner  including the cost and the significant limitations and 
exclusions of cover. But given her circumstances at the time  the fact she wasnt 
affected by the exclusions  on or limits to the cover  and didnt have significant existing 
means to fall back on  I didnt  think shed have been put her off taking out PPI had 
Nationwide done anything more.
Nationwide replied and said it had nothing further  to add.
Mrs W replied and said Nationwide didnt tell her that she couldnt claim on the policy if she 
was self-employed.  And she said she thought the sale of PPI was deemed illegal.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been given anything  which leads  me to change  my mind.
Ive acknowledged  that it was likely there were gaps in the information Nationwide  provided 
about the policy at the time.  But despite  what Mrs W says,  Ive not seen anything in the 
policy terms and conditions applicable  at the time,  which  wouldve made it difficult  for a self-
employed person  to claim for unemployment  benefit  so there  wasnt a significant exclusion  
or limitation  around  this which needed to be highlighted. 
While Mrs W wasnt self employed at the time,  I can see that she became self-employed  a 
few years later. But in these circumstances it wouldve been for Mrs W to have investigated 
whether a change  in the nature of her employment affected the appropriateness of the policy 
at that time  there  was no duty for Nationwide to do so.  
Ref: DRN47240572To Mrs Ws second  point - while the mis-selling of PPI is well documented (and a certain 
type of PPI was later banned from being sold) it hasnt been  deemed that the selling of PPI 
was illegal. And its not the case that it was mis-sold in all cases and everyone lost out. 
Having considered the individual  circumstances of this particular complaint and carefully 
weighed up the evidence presented to me by both parties to the dispute,  I find that Mrs W 
has not lost out as a result of taking  out PPI. So theres nothing Nationwide  has to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4724057