K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd (Carole Nash) because  the 
settlement figure hes received from the third party insurer doesnt provide a sufficient 
valuation. He feels Carole Nash shouldve done more  to help get a better offer for his 
motorcycle. 
He would like:
Payment so that his motorcycle can be replaced (with all the accessories) as it was 
just before the accident;
Compensation for the delays and stress  hes experienced.
background
On 2 February 2018, Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident  He was riding his 
motorcycle, which ended up being written off. The third party  driver was in a car and 
admitted liability for the accident. 
Mr H reported the accident to his broker, Carole Nash,  and it took over managing the claim 
with the insurer  and on Mr Hs behalf. The claim was settled directly by the third party insurer  
and Mr H didnt use his own insurance company to make that claim. The third party  insurer  
valued the motorcycle but Mr H wasnt happy  with it and made a complaint to Carole Nash.
Carole Nash looked into Mr Hs complaint  and said it hadnt done  anything wrong and if he 
was unhappy  about the valuation of the motorcycle, he should complain to the third party 
insurer. It said it acted appropriately  and in the best interest of their client by providing the 
options available Mr H. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr H referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and said she didnt think Carole Nash had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr H has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision and the complaint has therefore  
been passed to me. Mr H says in summary:
He had little interest  in getting his bike back sooner  because  the injuries  he sustained 
in the accident would  have precluded  him from safely riding a bike for a while;
He felt having to wait longer appeared to be the better offer because there was no 
point claiming on his own motorcycle insurance policy  for the cost of an accident  
which was caused by someone else;
He wants to be in the same position  financially relating to the replacement of his 
motorcycle as he was at the time of the no fault accident.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43117772The crux of Mr Hs complaint is about the valuation  provided for the written  off motorcycle. 
Hes not satisfied that the valuation will provide a replacement thats the same model and 
with the same accessories he had on his motorcycle before the accident. 
For clarity,  Id like to firstly explain what we cant look at on this complaint and what we can. 
what we cant look at
Mr H didnt make a claim through  his own insurer but went  through the third partys insurer.  
So, were  unable to look at his complaint about  the settlement amount offered by the third 
party insurer   he doesnt have an insurance contract with Carole Nash  and hes therefore 
not a policyholder with it. Had he submitted the claim through his own insurer,  we could have 
potentially looked  into the issue of settlement for him. But as it stands, we cant  look at the 
settlement offered by the third party insurer.
what we can look at
Mr H is also unhappy with how Carole  Nash has treated him and the issue left for me to 
decide is whether  or not he was treated unfairly and unreasonably since the accident 
happened in February 2018.  And also whether Carole Nash  could have done anything  more 
to get Mr H a better valuation on motorcycle. 
Contrary to what Mr H believes,  Carole Nash is the insurance broker  and not the insurer  or 
underwriter of his motorcycle insurance  policy. So if the crux of the complaint  is about the 
valuation of the motorcycle, as I said above, Carole Nash isnt responsible  for this. 
In looking at how Mr H was treated by Carole  Nash, Ive listened  to the call recordings 
provided by Carole  Nash that took place  with Mr H in February  2018  just after the accident 
happened. 
The calls explain clearly to Mr H about  the claims process and the options  he had. It 
explained that he could claim through his own insurance policy or through the third partys 
insurer. He made the decision  to go through  the third party  and Carole Nash  obligation was 
to ensure he had the right information in order to make the decision.  So based  on this, Im 
satisfied that Carole Nash didnt treat him inappropriately or unfairly.  
Ultimately, Mr H decided not to claim from his own insurer and while  I appreciate hes not 
happy with the settlement amount offered by the third party insurer,  this isnt because of 
what Carole Nash has done.  
Mr Hs main disagreement and comments surround  the valuation  thats  been  provided for his 
motorcycle. But Ive already said this isnt something we can look at. I accept that this is 
disappointing as he feels hes out of pocket.  But it was his decision  not to claim through  his 
own insurer and Carole Nash isnt able to change  or influence  how the motorcycle has been 
valued. 
I understand that Mr H is also unhappy  with the delays  and stress caused and would like 
compensation for this. Having looked  at whats happened I dont think  Carole Nash is 
responsible for the delays that may have  been  caused. So it doesnt  need to do anything in 
this regard either.
conclusion
Ref: DRN43117773Overall, Im not persuaded that Carole  Nash has treated  Mr H unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. It provided him with options  in the calls that took place and I 
dont think it didnt anything wrong.  I dont require  it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint against Carole Nash 
Insurance Consultants  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Nimisha Radia 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4311777