K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Retail Money  Market  Limited,  trading  as RateSetter, (RMM), didnt
carry out adequate affordability checks before he received a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr M also complains  that RMM wrongly pursued him for debt after it had been told he was a
vulnerable consumer. The complaint is brought to this service  on Mr Ms behalf by a family
member (Mr M2).  But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr M, unless
otherwise stated.
background
RMM arranged for Mr M to enter into a fixed sum loan agreement  for a loan of £10,000 in
April 2016 provided  by peer to peer lenders. RMM acted as agent for the peer to peer
lenders. The loan terms and conditions said that RMM advanced  the amount of credit,
collected the repayments and conducted enforcement action  on the lenders behalf. The loan
amount was repayable over four years by 48 monthly payments of £254.83.
Mr M2 said that the loan had been lent irresponsibly to a vulnerable person and he failed to
understand how the loan could have been justified if proper credit and affordability checks
had been executed and validated. Mr M2 said that RMM should have asked for proof of
Mr Ms income.
Mr M had said in his application  form that he was earning a net monthly income of £7,715.
But Mr M2 said that at that time Mr M wasnt working. Mr M had been suffering from manic
periods following an operation and had since been diagnosed with bipolar disorder,
depression and generalised anxiety disorder. Mr M2 sent a medical report  to RMM  in
June 2018 which said that Mr M was unable to work. The medical report  also said that the
debts Mr M currently had were contributing further  to his depression and thus having  a
detrimental effect on his health. Mr M stopped making loan repayments in mid-2018.  Mr M2
wanted the loan to be frozen and ideally written  off.
Mr M2 is also unhappy at RMMs delay in dealing with the freezing of Mr Ms account
following RMM  being informed of his mental  health  issues and vulnerability and RMMs
unsatisfactory administration of his account after being sent a letter  of authority appointing
Mr M2 to deal with his financial affairs in March  2018.
RMM said that it had completed two credit  reference agency checks as well as income  and
affordability checks. Its underwriting team had said that all minimum lending  requirements
were met. RMM  said that the loan was affordable on the basis of Mr Ms declared income
that hed put on his application. The correct process  had been followed and there  was no
error on its part.
our investigators view
The investigator firstly considered whether  the loan had been lent irresponsibly. He didnt
recommend that this aspect of the complaint  should  be upheld. He didnt think  RMMs credit
checks contained anything which would call for further investigation.
The investigator also noted that if a lender was told that a customer  was vulnerable,  it must
suspend the debt. He said that RMM  was told in July 2018 that Mr M was a vulnerable
customer, but it carried on pursuing  the debt.
Ref: DRN40367392The investigator also said that on 15 November 2018, RMM  had agreed to freeze the
interest on the debt and suspend the collection process indefinitely. RMM had also agreed to
wipe off any interest which had been added  to the account since  July 2018.  The investigator
thought this was fair. But he noted that Mr M2 wasnt happy with this because Mr M2 felt that
RMM should completely cancel the debt. The investigator said that he wasnt  able to ask
RMM to do that because  he felt that it had done  enough due diligence for the amount being
lent and Mr M had had the benefit  of the money.  So it wouldnt be fair for the debt to be
written off.
Mr M2 disagreed. He responded to say that it wasnt satisfactory  for RMM  to accept  Mr Ms
declared income. Mr M2 accepted that Mr M had received the loan, but due to Mr Ms
condition he had no recollection of where  this money had gone. Mr M2 said that Mr M had
managed to pay back at least half of the loan, but this had been  done by borrowing more
money from other sources.
Mr M2 also said that Mr Ms condition had caused  him to have manic episodes  and suicidal
tendencies, and no compassion had been  shown by RMM.  For several months, Mr M2 had
been hounded by RMM despite  it being aware  of Mr Ms condition.  This added considerably
to the stress Mr M2s  wife and Mr M2 had been  suffering.  Mr M2 also said that there was no
letter of confirmation  from RMM that the debt would not be sold on and there was no
guarantee the debt would be suspended indefinitely. He said that in the circumstances it
wouldnt be unreasonable for the debt to be written off.
The investigator responded to say that by agreeing to freeze  the loan indefinitely, RMM had
made appropriate accommodations.  So he wouldnt be asking RMM  to do anything  further.
Hed asked RMM to send  Mr M2 written confirmation that Mr Ms debt would be suspended
indefinitely and wouldnt be sold on.
Mr M2 responded to say that hed received an email from RMM confirming the loan would be
suspended indefinitely and wouldnt be sold on. But Mr M2 also noted that RMM had said
that this would be reviewed annually as the loan was outstanding.
Mr M2 said that he thought that this contradicted RMMs intention to suspend  the
outstanding amount indefinitely and it also went to show that RMM didnt understand the
implications of someone having  bipolar disorder. Mr M2 said that he would have thought  that
the loan should be written  off when taking all the circumstances into consideration.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to RMM on 2 April 2019. I summarise my findings:
I said that there were  two aspects to this complaint  and that I would deal with each of these 
separately.
affordability assessment
I noted that RMM needed  to make sure Mr M could  afford the loan repayments. There 
werent a set list of checks  that RMM had to carry out. But its checks  needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount of each repayment, the length  of the agreement 
and any borrowing history. I noted  that RMM had said that it had asked about Mr Ms 
Ref: DRN40367393income, made two credit checks and checked affordability. Mr M had declared his net 
monthly income to be £7,715.
I had seen the report from Mr Ms doctor and noted  Mr Ms health difficulties. But I couldnt  
see anything to show that RMM was aware  of these when Mr M applied for the loan.
I had seen a summary  of RMMs credit  checks.  Id asked the investigator  to ask RMM for its
more detailed credit  check results, but the information it provided to us in response was the
same as the summaries Id already seen.
The two credit check summaries showed  similar  results, although Id noted that a credit  
score of 604 was given  by one of the credit checks.  There was no credit score given by the 
other. The reason  given  for the credit score of 604 on the credit  check was the high credit 
limit utilisation  on Mr Ms accounts. Id noted  that this differed from the assessment in RMMs
complaint response  letter dated 12 September 2018  which said Mr M had a high credit score
due to a previous strong repayments  history. I didnt think that its complaint response
reflected what the credit  check said. And I thought that the relatively low credit  score for
someone with Mr Ms stated salary and the negative comment  accompanying it might have
given RMM some concerns.
Id also noted  that Mr M had eight active other  credit  accounts. Of note, I could see that the 
credit balance on one of Mr Ms credit cards  had been over its credit limit for six out of the 
previous nine months. The balance on another credit card had increased by around £2,100 
and £2,456 respectively in each of the previous two months with a balance outstanding of 
around £8,456.  Id also noted that Mr Ms current account was also overdrawn.
I thought that all these recent indications of Mr Ms credit behaviour  together  with the 
relatively low credit  score and accompanying adverse  comments might have concerned 
RMM. Overall and taken  together, I didnt think they would normally  be expected of someone 
earning the salary  level stated by Mr M and I thought they might have suggested that Mr Ms 
finances were under  pressure. Id also noted  that Mr Ms regular financial commitments (an 
unsecured loan and a mortgage for which the total monthly payments were £869) wouldnt 
appear to have been the cause of such financial  pressure. But I did note that Mr Ms 
mortgage repayment had appeared to have  increased by around £400  when hed taken  out 
a new mortgage  around six months earlier.
So considering the information revealed  by RMMs credit check  and that the repayments on
this loan were to be spread over 48 months, I thought it would have  been  proportionate for 
RMM to have gathered a more comprehensive view of Mr Ms financial circumstances and
sought some  independent verification of these.
Although I didnt think the checks RMM  did before the loan were sufficient, Id said that in 
itself didnt mean that this aspect of Mr Ms complaint about this loan should  succeed. I also
needed to see whether  what  I considered  to be proportionate checks  would have shown 
RMM that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford the loan.
To find out more about this, Id reviewed  Mr Ms bank statements for the month before he
took the loan.  Had RMM done so, it would have seen that he had no income and was 
approaching his £3,000  overdraft limit at the time of the application. So, I thought  if RMM 
had done what  I considered to be proportionate  checks, it would have seen the problems 
with Mr Ms financial  situation. And so I didnt think it would  have agreed  the loan.
Ref: DRN40367394Id asked the investigator to ask Mr M2 if Mr M would be able to work in the next 12 months
and for Mr Ms current health  situation.  He said:
Unable to give a clear indication as to whether [Mr M] will be able to obtain any income in
the next 12 months. He is self-employed and due to his bipolar had very high expectations
but in reality, sadly these  do not come to fruition.  We have had to fund most  of his debts but
are now unable to continue,  so the future at present is not looking very bright.
He [Mr M] knows  we are trying to deal with [RMM] and when aware of any contact becomes
very depressed and had in the past contemplated suicide.
Mr M2 said that Mr M was now being  cared  for at a hospital for mental  health.
Id noted that Mr M had paid over half the amount due under the loan. I could see that RMM 
had now frozen Mr Ms account and that it said that it would check  his situation  annually. But 
in view of Mr Ms medical report, the circumstances outlined by Mr M2 and the potential 
impact on Mr M of any contact from RMM, I thought that it would be reasonable for RMM  to 
arrange for the outstanding balance on the loan to be written off and to arrange for the 
removal of any adverse entries on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan.
pursuing the debt
I could see that Mr M2 had sent RMM an email on 29 March 2018  with a third party  authority 
and requesting further information about the loan. RMM didnt respond to the email  and on 
10 April 2018 Mr M2 spoke to RMM. RMM said that it hadnt  received the email and couldnt 
discuss the account. It had then found  the email on that date but didnt respond  to Mr M2s 
questions raised  in that email and considered the matter settled.
RMM upheld Mr M2s  complaint about how the authorisation had been  added to
Mr Ms account and how this was communicated on 14 June 2018. Id noted that RMM
had apologised  for this.
I had seen Mr Ms medical report dated  May 2018 which said he had recently  been
diagnosed. Id also noted that the report said that Mr M was unable  to work at that time and 
that the debts  were  having a detrimental  effect  on his health. I could see that Mr M2 had sent 
the medical report to RMM on 9 June  2018 and asked for a copy  of RMMs duty of care 
policy.
RMM told Mr M2 on 21 June 2018 that it didnt have a duty of care policy. As the request for
the duty of care policy was requested in connection with Mr Ms mental  health  issues,  I 
thought RMM should have realised that Mr M2s  request was in relation to these and that it 
could have told Mr M2 about  its Vulnerable Customer Guidance (VCG), but it failed to do 
so.
As RMM  would have been aware  from 9 June 2018 of Mr Ms mental health issues,  it would
have known that Mr M was a vulnerable  customer and that it should  have acted  in line with
its own guidance for such customers.  But Id seen RMMs contact notes and could see that
whilst a note had been made  in April 2018 that Mr M had a physical illness, it didnt appear
to have been amended to reflect the fact that he had a mental  health  illness. So I thought  
that RMMs staff might not have  dealt with the case in line with the VCG because  of this.
Id seen RMMs VCG  and noted the following provisions:
Ref: DRN40367395Where we are made aware of a particular vulnerability, ..the objective of any action
taken will be to mitigate any potential  detriment or harm  that might  be caused to the 
customer were  we not to provide an appropriate  level of care.  
As well as taking appropriate action to support vulnerable customers, we also needed to 
make sure that other  members of staff who deal with the customer  are aware of the 
situation.
There will be instances where  customers in arrears lack the capacity to make  decisions
about the management of their debt or engage  in the debt recovery  process. . Where
we are made  aware (or are notified) that this is the case, we must  immediately suspend the
pursuit or recovery of a debt.
Id noted that Mr M2 had sent a third party authority to RMM on 29 March  2018.  Hed also 
said that Mr M was suffering problems following a brain tumour  operation.  Despite this, I 
could see from RMMs contact notes that it continued to contact Mr M until 20 April 2018, 
with around four emails being sent to Mr M and three text messages being  sent to Mr M. I 
could see that these might have  caused  substantial distress to Mr M.
I didnt think that RMM  had acted in line with its own VCG  and noted  that RMM had pursued
the debt after it was made aware of Mr Ms mental  health issues and lack of disposable
income. Id noted  that after Mr Ms medical report was sent to RMM  in June 2018, RMM told
Mr M2 that it could only freeze interest  and set up a repayment plan once it received income
and expenditure  details  and bank statements. Mr M2 had sent RMM Mr Ms income and
expenditure form and bank  statements  in July 2018. So it was aware  of Mr Ms current
financial difficulties. Nevertheless, I could see on RMMs contact notes  that RMM was texting
and emailing Mr M2 weekly, sometimes daily, to pursue the debt. In October  2018 Mr M2
was told that the account was at risk of being sent to a debt collection agency.
I have considered whether to make an award  to reflect  the emotional and practical impact
RMMs actions have had. I asked  the investigator to ask Mr M2 whether Mr M had been
caused stress by RMMs actions. Mr M2 said:
I know  [Mr M] also had received  communications from [RMM]  but I am reluctant to enquire
at this stage, unless vital, for fear of any adverse reactions. 
In view of Mr Ms medical report, I have  no reason to doubt what Mr M2 had told us. I 
thought it likely that Mr M would have  been caused  unnecessary distress by RMMs  
continued communications to Mr M after being provided with a third party authority on 
29 March 2018.  So I thought it would  be appropriate  for RMM  to pay Mr M £300 
compensation for distress and anxiety as a result of its actions.
Id also noted  that RMM had caused  considerable trouble and upset to Mr M2 and his wife 
by failing to deal with his communications  promptly, by pursuing the debt and by failing to
respond to his questions posed in several  communications in July, August and
September 2018. But as Mr M2 and his wife werent RMMs  customers, I said that we 
couldnt award them compensation for the poor way RMM had dealt with them. We could 
only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset  experienced by its customer.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or RMM  my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  RMM  to:
Ref: DRN403673961. Arrange to write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan;
2. Pay £300 compensation to Mr M; and
3. Arrange to remove any adverse information about  the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M2 on behalf of Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted  my 
provisional decision. RMM hasnt provided  a response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr M has accepted my provisional decision and RMM  has given me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require RMM  to pay 
Mr M some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Retail Money Market  Limited, trading as RateSetter,  to:
1. Arrange to write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan;
2. Pay £300 compensation to Mr M; and
3. Arrange to remove any adverse information about  the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
RMM must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If RMM considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from
that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr M a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  8 June 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4036739