K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Novaloans Ltd, trading as Cash4unow  (Cash4unow)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 2 instalment loans Cash4unow provided to Mrs B between April and 
May 2018. Mrs Bs borrowing history  based on what Cash4unow provided is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest  
repayment
1 24/04/2018 11/05/2018 4 £200.00 £71
2 14/05/2018 6/11/2019 6 £700.00 £215
Mrs B has said Cash4unow provided unaffordable  and irresponsible  lending to her. 
Cash4unow has said it carried  out the appropriate  checks before the loans was provided. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint in part and thought loan 2 should not have been 
given. Cash4unow  disagreed so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN41287072I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans  1 so I wont be looking at this 
any further as there is no ongoing disagreement  about it. But I will bear it in mind when Im 
looking at Mrs Bs other lending. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 2 would most likely  have shown  
that Mrs B was having trouble in managing her money. 
Cash4unow has informed  us of the checks it carried out before  lending any of the loans.  It 
says it checked  Mrs Bs income and expenses and also searched her credit  file. From the 
information that has been provided, Ive seen that Mrs B had a number of existing short-term  
credit commitments  with several other  lenders when she applied for loan 2. So, it was clear 
from this that Mrs B wasnt using these  high-cost  loans to deal with a short-term  cashflow  
problem. So, in these  circumstances,  Cash4unow  ought to have realised it was unlikely     
Mrs B would have been able to sustainably repay loan 2  and any subsequent loans. 
If Cash4unow took its checks further, it wouldve  been aware that Mrs B was likely having 
wider financial problems  and wouldve struggled  to repay the loan. In the circumstances, 
Cash4unow shouldnt  have lent loan 2. 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 2 and Cash4unow should put things right.
Mrs Bs complaint about the service  provided  by Cash4unow
Mrs B has also complained about  the service that has been provided  by Cash4unow and 
how she has felt harassed by its contact with her. Mrs B has said she felt threatened and 
pressured with regards to a payment plan she was in contact  with Cash4unow about. But 
based on the evidence that weve been  provided,  Im not in a position to say that 
Cash4unow treated  Mrs B unfairly.  So in this instance I make no award  against  Cash4unow 
in relation to this.
Ref: DRN41287073putting things right  what Cash4unow  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mrs Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. 
Cash4unow must give Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Novaloans  Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4128707