K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr G between November 
2014 and August 2017. Details of the 5 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Instalments Date repaid
1 01/11/2014 200 13 weeks 14/01/2015
2 28/07/2015 300 52 weeks 29/06/2016
3 17/09/2016 500 13 weeks 10/02/2017
4 10/02/2017 1000 10 months outstanding
5 03/08/2017 100 6 months outstanding
Satsuma agreed to put things right with regards  to loan 3. Mr G has an amount left 
outstanding for loans  4 and 5.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint in part and thought loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have 
been given. Satsuma didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN40499542There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Tradings guidance on irresponsible lending and 
then the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G applied for his first loan with Satsuma in November 2014. It was for a relatively small 
amount and was the first time he had approached Satsuma for credit.  So because it was so 
early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Satsuma 
to ask him for the amount of information  that would  be needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable before  agreeing the first loan.
There was a gap of around  6 months before Mr G asked Satsuma for another loan. When Mr 
G did approach Satsuma again  in 2015, it did a number of checks. It asked him for details of 
his income and his normal  expenditure. It gathered data from credit  reference agencies 
about other credit repayments that Mr G would need to make  over the coming months.  And it 
then used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Mr G had left over each  
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mr Gs financial situation  at the time he asked for loan 2. So again I agree 
with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there was nothing to indicate  Satsuma 
needed to do more when it approved loan 2.
Mr G approached Satsuma again for a third loan.  This was for a higher amount than his 
previous loans and was taken out by Mr G only a few weeks  after he had repaid loan 2. 
Satsuma has agreed  to pay Mr G compensation and put things right with this loan. So 
because of this I have not needed  to draw  a conclusion about whether it was right to grant 
him loan 3. I will be asking Satsuma to honour its offer with this loan.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Mr G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought to have realised  Mr G was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr G had taken  out 3 loans  over a period of 17 months (17 months 
Ref: DRN40499543of repayments). So Satsuma ought to have realised  it was more likely Mr G was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loans were leaving in 
his finances.
Mr G wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Satsuma. The amount 
he was asking to borrow was going  up with Loan  4 being for 3 times the amount of 
loan 2. Satsuma  ought to have  known that Mr G was not likely borrowing to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need and his reliance on its 
credit was increasing.
I think this pattern of lending should have alerted Satsuma to the likelihood  that Mr G 
was having problems managing his money. I think that Satsuma shouldve  been 
concerned that Mr G might be borrowing elsewhere to repay its loans, increasing his 
indebtedness unsustainably.
I think that Mr G lost out because Satsuma  continued to provide borrowing  from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Gs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5. Ill also be asking Satsuma to put things 
right with loan 3 as well as it has already offered to do so. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 3 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Gs credit file
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loan 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr 
Gs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  Satsuma must give Mr 
G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As I have already  mentioned,  Mr G still owes Satsuma some of the principal balance he 
borrowed on his final 2 loans (loans  four and five). Satsuma may deduct this from the 
compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should be 
recalculated to remove any interest  and charges, but taking account  of any repayments  Mr G 
has made on that loan as though they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
Ref: DRN40499544my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Provident Personal  
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should  pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4049954