K821x#15complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the advice he received to invest part of his self-invested pension plan 
(SIPP) into three  unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). These were a forestry  
fund and two senior  life settlement funds.  Gyr Consulting Limited has confirmed to our 
service that its responsible for dealing with this complaint. 
background
Mr L met with an adviser from Gyr in May 2009  to talk about his existing pension 
arrangements. The adviser recommended that some  of Mr Ls existing pension plans should 
be transferred to a SIPP. In July 2009 the adviser  then recommended  how the funds in the 
SIPP should  be invested. This included  making investments into the Centurion Defined  
Return Fund, the EEA Life Settlements  Fund and the Quadris  Environmental  Forestry Fund. 
Mr L invested £25,000 in Centurion  in July 2009.  Then, in September  2009 he invested 
£30,000 in Quadris  and £25,000 in EEA. The Quadris fund was suspended in March  2011. 
By June  2014,  the EEA and Centurion  funds had also been suspended. In November 2017 
Gyr told Mr L that the Quadris fund needed to be wound up and had no value. He 
complained to Gyr the following month  about  his investments in all three of the suspended 
funds. 
Gyr said the advice it had given to Mr L was entirely appropriate given his attitude to risk and 
his financial circumstances. Gyr also said it didnt think  this was a complaint we could look 
as it had been made too late. I decided we could look at the merits of this complaint. I 
explained why I thought  it had been made within the time limits set out in the rules our 
service has to follow. 
One of our adjudicators then looked at the merits of Mr Ls complaint. In summary, he 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. The adjudicator noted that Gyr had recorded  Mr Ls 
attitude to risk as balanced-medium. But he thought Gyr had wrongly classified the 
Centurion, EEA and Quadris funds  as medium risk when they should have been classed as 
high risk. The adjudicator  then set out what he thought  Gyr should  do to compensate Mr L. 
Gyr didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Again in summary,  Gyr said: at the time of the 
advice the problems with the three  UCIS investments werent  foreseeable; Gyr clearly 
warned Mr L he could lose the entire  value of these investments; the three UCIS funds were 
medium risk based on how it classified such investments and only made  up 6% of Mr Ls 
total investable  capital; Gyrs classification of the UCIS was based on the information 
available at the time and they werent considered to be within  the 5% high risk investments 
of Mr Ls portfolio; Gyr thought a more diverse  investment  approach of including  a small 
percentage of UCIS assets  was a sensible approach in Mr Ls situation; and, Gyr didnt think 
that Mr L having 6% of his investable portfolio invested in the three UCIS funds exposed him 
to more risk than that of his risk profile.  
As Gyr didnt agree  with the adjudicator, this complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN41598152Gyr has made numerous points in response to the adjudicators  view.  Im aware  that Ive 
summarised these above in rather  less detail and in my own words. Im not going  to respond 
to each point individually.  
I dont intend any discourtesy  by this. Its a reflection of the informal nature of our service.  If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. It will be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of this complaint. This approach is in line with what Im required 
to do by our enabling legislation.  
It allows me to focus on what I consider a fair outcome will turn. Thats  exactly what Ive 
done. Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issue here: were  the three UCIS 
investments correctly classified as medium  risk?  
The promotion of UCIS to the general  public is normally not allowed unless the relevant 
regulations allow an exemption. In this case,  Gyr relied on an exemption in the Conduct  of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS) rules  produced  by the then regulator, the Financial Services  
Authority, now the Financial Conduct  Authority.  Gyr relied on COBS  4.12 Category 2 and 
assessed the investments as suitable  for Mr L. 
But, as the name suggests, UCIS  are unregulated. This, and the fact that they cant be freely 
promoted, shows that UCIS, by their very nature, are thought of as a higher risk. The 
regulators view is that UCIS are generally  regarded as being  characterised by a high degree 
of volatility, illiquidity or both. This means  theyre usually thought of as speculative  
investments. This means that in practice UCIS are rarely  considered as suitable  for more 
than a small share of an investors portfolio. 
The Centurion and EEA funds are both life settlement funds, with underlying assets  as 
purchased US life policies for which  the fund carried on paying  the premiums  in expectation 
of getting the benefits when the policyholders passed away. 
The Centurion fund was complex. It invested in unusual potentially illiquid assets, used 
leveraging or borrowing  and was described  as involving a high degree of risk which can 
result in the loss of all or part of the investment. It should have been  apparent  at the time of 
Gyrs advice that this type of fund presented significant risks.  
Similarly, the EEA fund was designed  to operate in a very specific way. It could suffer  
significant losses. At the time of investing,  these losses would be difficult  to predict or 
estimate. My understanding is the publicised investment objective  of this fund was to provide 
a benchmark 8% annual return on a stable  long-term basis.  The target annual  net return  was 
9% to 10%. 
The prospectus listed numerous risks,  including but not limited to: investment risk; changes 
in taxation; availability risk; leverage  risk; cell risks; concentration  risks; valuation  risk; 
insured fraud risk; policy  pricing risks;  liquidity risk; missing insureds; counterparty  risk; and, 
US Federal  and State tax risks. Im satisfied that at the time of Gyrs advice, it was clear  the 
EEA fund exposed investors to a significant  risk of capital  loss. 
The Quadris fund was invested in South American teak plantations.  The promotional 
literature for this fund,  provided to us by Gyr, states that the fund was intended as a long 
term investment. Gyrs letter to Mr L from May 2009 describes long term investment funds as 
higher risk. Ive also seen  reports in the mainstream media from early 2008 describing  the 
Ref: DRN41598153Quadris fund as a high risk investment. I also think an investment in a single commodity 
based unregulated fund is a higher risk investment. 
Taking all the above into consideration,  Im satisfied that the Centurion, EEA and Quadris 
funds were incorrectly identified as medium risk by Gyr. All three should have been classified 
as higher risk from the outset. 
Gyrs advice to Mr L in May 2009 stated his attitude  to risk was balanced-medium. The letter  
listed three categories of investments: The first category was short  term low/very  low risk 
investments. Category  two was medium term, balanced/medium risk investments. The last 
category was long term, alternative higher risk volatile investments. 
In July 2009 Gyr recommended  that Mr L should  take a more cautious, low to medium  risk 
approach with his investment portfolio as hed chosen to defer buying an annuity. It said his 
investment portfolio should be split, with 65% in short  term, 30% in medium  term and 5% in 
long term investments. 
Gyr recommended  that the funds being invested  in the SIPP, just under £437,000,  should be 
split in the same proportions with around £286,000 in three short term investments, 
£130,000 in four medium term investments, which included  Centurion, EEA and Quadris, 
and the remaining £21,000 in four long term investments.  
Gyr has said that the £80,000 invested  in the disputed UCIS investments only represented  
around 6% of Mr Ls total investable capital. But thats not quite right.  This figure  was also 
quoted by Gyr in its final response letter to Mr L. It referred  to total assets  of £1,316,000.  I 
agree that £80,000 is around 6% of this figure. But the total asset  figure included a 
substantial amount of assets that were  either  jointly owned or were  in Mrs Ls sole name.  
Even more  importantly, if Centurion, EEA and Quadris funds had been correctly  classified as 
higher risk, this would have brought the percentage of recommended  higher risk investments 
in Mr Ls SIPP to over 23%.  Gyrs  July 2009 advice letter states the recommended SIPP 
funds had been allocated to reflect as closely  as possible the 65%:30%:5% split for a low to 
medium risk investor. 
Given all the above Im satisfied that Mr L wouldnt have invested in the Centurion,  EEA and 
Quadris funds. I think he would have wanted  to invest the £80,000 in funds that were 
actually medium risk, rather than funds that had been wrongly described as such.  
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr L, as far as possible,  into the position he would probably now be in if 
hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr L would have  invested  differently. Its not possible 
to say precisely what he would have done  differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ls circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  Gyr do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Gyr must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr Ls investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. 
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. The losses should  be 
Ref: DRN41598154combined and the total is the amount of compensation payable. 
Gyr should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Gyr should pay into Mr Ls pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  
Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Gyr is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Ls pension  plan,  it should  pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected  marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. 
Mr L is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr L would have been able to take a tax free lump 
sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
In addition, Gyr should pay Mr L £250  for the disruption caused to his retirement  planning. 
Gyr should  also provide  details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear,  simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Gyr deducts income tax from the interest  
it should tell Mr L how much has been  taken  off. Gyr should  give Mr L a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Centurion 
Defined 
Return 
Fundstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
EEA Life 
Settlements 
Fundstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid within 
Ref: DRN4159815528 days of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
Quadris 
Environ-
mental       
Fundstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Gyr should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above. 
If Gyr is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Gyr may require that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay Gyr 
any amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  allow  
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Gyr will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gyr totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. 
Ref: DRN41598156The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ls circumstances and risk attitude.  
Finally, Gyr should pay Mr L £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the disruption  to his 
retirement planning. Mr L has been  caused  a great deal of upset by the problems with these 
three investments. I think a payment of £250  is appropriate for that upset. 
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance. 
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Gyr Consulting Limited should pay Mr L 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum  of £150,000 plus any interest 
set out above.  
If Gyr Consulting  Limited doesnt pay the recommended amount, then any investment  
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr L. This is until any future  benefit  that he may 
receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Gyr Consulting  Limited  
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Gyr Consulting Limited may request an undertaking from Mr L that either he repays  to Gyr 
Consulting Limited  any amount  Mr L may receive  from the investment thereafter  or if 
possible, transfers the investment at that point. 
Mr L should be aware that any such amount  would  be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking. 
Gyr Consulting Limited should provide  details  of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple  
format. 
Gyr must also pay Mr L £250  for the trouble  and upset hes been caused by the unsuitable 
advice. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Gyr Consulting Limited pays Mr L the balance  plus any interest  
on the balance  as set out above. 
This recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. It doesnt bind Gyr Consulting 
Limited. It is unlikely that Mr L can accept  my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr L may want  to consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
Ref: DRN41598157Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019. 
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4159815