K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 to 
protect a personal loan.  Mr D says Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as 
GE Capital  Motor Finance (Santander) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr D aware  the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his loan. Mr D has told us he was told he had to take the PPI to get the 
loan. Santander  has provided a copy of the script it expected its representatives to follow at 
the time it sold the policy to Mr D. The script  directed  the representative to present the policy 
as optional and gain consent before adding it to the loan. I cant be certain of how closely the 
representative followed the script  in Mr Ds case but I think  it most  likely represents what was 
discussed during  the call. 
Mr Ds loan application form also had a separate section for PPI which  Mr D has signed 
separately to agree  to the PPI. So overall  I think Santander made  it clear  that D didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making 
his repayments  which included sick pay and help from friends and family.  But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr Ds sick pay, and while  Mr Ds friends and family would have 
wanted to help, their ability to do so would have been dependent  on their circumstances at 
the time,  which could  have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN48910062To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has, but these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr D any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr D any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr D the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr D 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  Consumer  (UK) plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Santander Consumer  (UK) plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4891006