K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr M had with Preferred Mortgages Limited. As there 
are various heads of complaint I detailed them in the narrative of my provisional decision 
rather than trying to summarise them here. On 10 November 2018  the mortgage  was 
transferred to a new lender.
background to complaint
I issued my provisional decision in November 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached to, and 
forms part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt minded 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision.
Preferred told us that it had nothing further  to add. Mr M disagreed with my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive reviewed all the submissions carefully,  and considered the case  afresh, but my opinion 
hasnt changed.  
Mr M has raised various points  in his response, which Ill summarise below. I wont be 
answering all Mr Ms points individually as they fall into five broad categories:
1.Issues relating  to the original arrangement of the mortgage,  including  whether this 
service can consider a complaint  about  the broker.
2.Issues relating  to the building insurance.
3.Preferred still charged interest whilst the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  
made Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI) payments.
4.When an overpayment was refunded to Mr M the balance of his mortgage increased.
5.Mr M thinks he shouldnt have been paying  interest for three years when he was in 
credit.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Im not considering any parts of the complaint that 
have previously been decided by my ombudsman colleagues. So Im not considering again 
complaints from Mr M about the original arrangement of the mortgage and issues  relating to 
the building  insurance, which are points one and two above.
Points three,  four and five come down to what I called in my provisional  decision a 
fundamental misunderstanding  about  how mortgages work.  I was clear that I wasnt blaming 
Mr M for that, as I said it was completely understandable considering  this is the only 
mortgage Mr M has ever held.
Mr M is right; Preferred did still charge interest whilst  the DWP made SMI payments. But that 
was the correct thing for it to do, as its exactly what any mortgage lender would normally do. 
The interest is still due on the mortgage  every month, and the SMI payment is designed to 
cover that amount  (either in full or in part, depending on the consumers eligibility and 
mortgage). Any shortfall in payment   that is, any amount  that is part of the contractual  
mortgage payment  that isnt covered by the SMI payment  is still due each month from the 
consumer. So Preferred  did nothing wrong here.
Ref: DRN46733652Mr M has said when  an overpayment  was refunded  to him the balance of his mortgage 
increased. Thats also correct. Any overpayment on the mortgage means the balance is 
lower at that point in time than it was due to be. The overpayment can just be left on the 
account, which means the balance stays lower and less interest  will be charged each month.  
Or, as happened here, Mr M received a refund of the overpayment. But by removing the 
overpayment from the mortgage account  the mortgage balance will have to increase by that 
same amount. Mr M cant ask for money  back,  but also still have  the benefit of the 
overpayment being on the account.
Finally, Mr M has said he shouldnt have been paying interest for the three  years  when he 
says he was in credit. To explain, even if a mortgage is in advance of where it should be its 
never in credit as theres  still a debt outstanding.  That debt may be less than was due at 
that point, but its still a debt. And where theres  a debt outstanding, interest will be due. For 
a standard mortgage, the only time interest will not be due is when the debt is completely 
repaid in full. I dealt  with this point in my provisional decision, and Ill copy  my explanation 
below:
But thats not the case; its not how most mortgages work, and its certainly not how 
Mr Ms mortgage works. Most mortgages  - including Mr Ms - are held on whats called 
daily rest, which  means interest  is calculated  on the amount owing on the mortgage at 
the end of each day. The interest is charged to the account daily,  increasing the balance 
by the amount of interest, but is only shown on the account  as an accumulated amount 
 on the monthly  payment due date.  With an interest-only mortgage, payments must be 
made monthly and are credited to the mortgage to cover the interest charged for the 
preceding month.
So interest will be due each and every month for which a debt remains outstanding. 
There was no past point in time whereby the amount of interest  to be paid on the initial 
loan had been comfortably paid off as all Mr M has been doing is covering each month 
the interest that had been charged for the month before. For example, with a lifetime 
mortgage that situation could continue indefinitely, and the balance (and monthly  
payments, if interest rates didnt  change)  would remain the same from month 1 to month 
100 (and beyond).
On a side note,  that situation applies now, even though the mortgage term ended  in 
December 2018;  interest  is still due every  month  and Mr M is liable for monthly payments 
to cover that until such time as the entire  debt is repaid.
I would like to reassure  Mr M that theres not been the errors that he believes there are, as 
most of his points come  down to not understanding how mortgages work.  To be clear,  thats  
not a criticism of Mr M at all as I wouldnt expect him have  that level of understanding. To 
close I think its prudent for me to copy below another extract from my provisional  decision: 
I understand Mr M has concerns about the balance  of his account, and various 
transactions that are showing. As our investigator  said, it isnt the role of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service to provide  an auditing service or carry out a forensic  analysis of 
mortgage records. But Ive looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing  on there 
that appears unusual or incorrect (other than those points already corrected by 
Preferred).
Mortgage accounts are complicated, and involve complex calculations as Ive shown 
above. I wont say there  are never  any computing  errors, but theyre  not as common  as 
Ref: DRN46733653people might think, and I cant see any here. Of course, its open  to Mr M to instruct  an 
independent qualified professional to audit his account and see if hes right about the 
errors that he says have  occurred. But that would have to be at his expense; though if 
errors were found to his financial detriment he could complain about them and his costs in 
discovering them could  be taken into account in putting matters  right.  But as things stand, 
Im not persuaded that Preferred has mis-managed his account  or that the current  
balance is wrong.
my final decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out:
I dismiss the elements  of the complaint that weve previously  considered, and
I dont uphold  the other elements of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46733654COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mr M had with Preferred Mortgages Limited. As there are various 
heads of complaint Ill detail them below  rather than trying to summarise them here. On 10 November 
2018 the mortgage was transferred to a new lender.
background
Mr M took this mortgage  out in December 2003. He was a first-time  buyer and bought his property 
under a right-to-buy  scheme.  It was taken out on an interest-only basis over a 15-year term.
In April 2004  the Department  for Work and Pensions started helping Mr M with his mortgage 
payments. Over the years various overpayment balances  built up, and each time Mr M asked that 
those be refunded  to him, which meant the balance  went back up by the equivalent amount. Preferred 
also charged Mr M for buildings insurance, something that turned out to be duplicated as Mr M had 
insurance elsewhere.
There have been various complaints over the years, three of which were  dealt with in final decisions 
by ombudsman colleagues:
In March 2017 a colleague issued a final decision  on a complaint summarised  as Mr M 
complains that Preferred  Mortgages Limited  incorrectly claimed that hes in arrears with his 
mortgage. Mr M is also unhappy that hes in arrears because his mortgage interest payment by a 
government agency has been reduced. 
The ombudsman said that as Mr M had dual buildings  insurance for a number of years,  the 
policies arranged by Preferred should  be cancelled, as if theyd never  existed.  In resolution she 
said Preferred should (upon receipt of suitable evidence) refund or reverse all the insurance 
premiums charged She didnt uphold  any other part of Mr Ms complaint.
In March 2019 a colleague issued a final decision  on a complaint summarised  as Mr M 
complains that Preferred  Mortgages Limited  has wrongly treated  his mortgage as being in 
arrears, added fees to the mortgage, threatened him with legal action,  and provided  poor service 
overall.
The ombudsman said she was satisfied the arrears management fees were  charged correctly,  
but felt Preferred hadnt  treated  Mr M fairly in instructing solicitors when it did. She also said it 
was clear Mr M had found  the letters hed received  about legal action stressful and upsetting  and 
awarded £250  compensation for that. In resolution she said Preferred should refund any fees for 
referral to solicitors  and other legal  costs which  it applied to Mr Ms mortgage in 2018  She 
didnt uphold  any other part of the complaint.
Also in March 2019 a colleague issued  a final decision on a complaint summarised as Mr M 
complains about  a mortgage he took out with Preferred Mortgages  Limited. He says the 
mortgage was unsuitable  and was mis-sold.
The ombudsman said a mortgage broker sold the mortgage to Mr M so it was responsible for any 
advice that was given about the suitability of the mortgage. She didnt uphold  any element of Mr 
Ms complaint.
This latest complaint was referred to us in December 2018. Theres been a large amount of crossover 
with the earlier complaints. But on top of that Mr M has queried some of the transactions  showing on 
his account,  and also the overall  balance and interest charged.
Ref: DRN46733655Our investigator explained  that we couldnt  look at the earlier complaints again, and she rejected most  
of the complaint. But she did think there were two elements Preferred needed to look at, and said 
some transactions should  be refunded to Mr M. As neither party  agreed with the investigator, the 
matter has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
We dont  decide every complaint thats referred to us. There are some complaints that we cant  look 
at, because the rules we operate under dont allow us to. And there are others that we are able look 
at, but we choose not to due to their circumstances. The rules that set this out are referred  to as the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are laid down within the Financial  Conduct Authority handbook. 
DISP rule 3.3.4A  says the ombudsman may dismiss  a complaint referred  to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint  would seriously impair the effective operation  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.
DISP rule 3.3.4B  says examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded under  the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service (unless  material  new evidence which the Ombudsman considers 
likely to affect  the outcome has subsequently become available to the complainant).
As theres  no material new evidence put forward, this means that I wont be considering any parts of 
the complaint that have  previously been decided  by my ombudsman colleagues.
I now turn to the parts of the complaint which I should consider. At the heart of this I believe is a 
fundamental misunderstanding  about  how mortgages work, which is completely understandable 
considering this is the only mortgage Mr M has ever held. Hopefully my explanations  will be useful to 
him. 
Mr M has said It is my contention that the transaction history shows that I have already paid 
considerable [sic] more than required  in interest payments on my interest only mortgage.  According  to 
my calculations this will amount to some £5897 by the end of the term. I calculate that payments from 
about November 2014 should have been deducted from the original  loan amount rather than being 
set against additional  interest requirements. And  the amount of interest to be paid on the initial  
loan had been  comfortably paid off well before the end of the mortgage term.  This means that the 
amount paid in interest from that point on should either have been subject to a refund or a credit 
against the remaining end of term balance. 
But thats not the case; its not how most mortgages work, and its certainly not how Mr Ms mortgage 
works. Most mortgages - including  Mr Ms - are held on whats called daily  rest, which means  
interest is calculated on the amount owing on the mortgage at the end of each day. The interest is 
charged to the account daily, increasing the balance  by the amount  of interest, but is only shown  on 
the account  as an accumulated amount  on the monthly  payment due date. With an interest-only 
mortgage, payments must be made monthly and are credited to the mortgage to cover the interest 
charged for the preceding  month.
So interest will be due each and every month for which a debt remains outstanding. There was no 
past point in time whereby  the amount of interest  to be paid on the initial loan had been comfortably 
paid off as all Mr M has been doing is covering each month the interest that had been charged for the 
Ref: DRN46733656month before. For example, with a lifetime mortgage that situation  could continue indefinitely,  and the 
balance (and monthly payments, if interest rates didnt  change) would  remain the same from month 1 
to month 100 (and beyond).
On a side note, that situation applies now, even though the mortgage term ended in December 2018; 
interest is still due every  month  and Mr M is liable for monthly  payments to cover that until such time 
as the entire  debt is repaid.
Mr M has also said hes been waiting for a final statement so he knows whats owed, but again thats 
not how it works. Mr M would have received annual  mortgage statements, and then letters from the 
lender(s) setting out the term end date and outstanding balance (at the time the letter  was written). As 
the balance will change each day based on interest charged and payments  made, its not possible for 
a definitive figure to be given unless specifically asked for. If Mr M wants  a precise  redemption figure  
for a particular date then he needs to request that from the current  lender.
One element our investigator  upheld  related to two transactions described  by Mr M as other  credit 
not applied . These were for £652.22 on 5 January 2017 and £839.15  on 24 April 2017.  Our 
investigator said she couldnt see the account  balance  had reduced by equivalent amounts  and 
therefore she told Preferred it should refund these amounts to Mr M. She also said Preferred should  
refund any insurance premiums charged from September 2016 to January  2017 if it hadnt  already 
done so.
Ive looked carefully at these two points and Im satisfied  Preferred  doesnt need to do anything  as all 
the amounts have already  been refunded  and/or  reversed. The insurance  premiums in question were  
reversed off the account  in January 2017 as if theyd not been  charged. And the other two 
transactions were reversed off the accounts  on the same day, but as separate amounts, for example:
date my description debit
24 April 2017 arrears adjustment / other credit not applied -£839.15
24 April 2017 insurance premium  reversal for 1 April 2010 -£193.44
24 April 2017 insurance premium  tax credit for 1 April 2010 -£9.67
24 April 2017 insurance premium  reversal for 1 April 2011 -£193.51
24 April 2017 insurance premium  tax credit for 1 April 2011 -£11.61
24 April 2017 insurance premium  reversal for 1 April 2012 -£202.06
24 April 2017 insurance premium  tax credit for 1 April 2012 -£12.12
24 April 2017 insurance premium  reversal for 1 April 2013 -£204.47
24 April 2017 insurance premium  tax credit for 1 April 2013 -£12.27
So whilst the single adjustment of £839.15 didnt reduce  the balance,  the eight transactions  
underneath (which add up to that £839.15) each  came  off the balance. The total figure of £839.15 is 
just an administrative line of the transaction history to show an account  adjustment, and isnt a 
separate transaction in itself.
Its the same for the £652.22  adjustment on 5 January 2017, with six other individual transactions  
being listed the same  day (for the insurance refunds from 2014, 2015 and 2016)  all coming  off the 
mortgage balance.
I understand Mr M has concerns about the balance  of his account, and various transactions that are 
showing. As our investigator said, it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to provide an 
auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage records.  But Ive looked at the transaction 
history and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect (other than those  points already 
corrected by Preferred).
Mortgage accounts are complicated, and involve  complex calculations as Ive shown above.  I wont 
say there are never any computing errors, but theyre not as common as people might  think, and I 
cant see any here. Of course,  its open to Mr M to instruct  an independent qualified professional  to 
audit his account and see if hes right about  the errors that he says have occurred. But that would 
Ref: DRN46733657have to be at his expense; though  if errors  were found to his financial detriment he could complain  
about them and his costs in discovering them could  be taken into account in putting  matters  right. But 
as things stand, Im not persuaded that Preferred has mis-managed his account or that the current  
balance is wrong.
my provisional  decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties  by the 
due date, my provisional  decision is:
I dismiss the elements  of the complaint  that weve previously considered, and
I dont uphold the other elements of the complaint.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4673365