K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mis-sold him Select, Gold  and Platinum 
packaged bank  accounts.
He says that he asked the cashier  for an overdraft and was told that he had to get a 
packaged bank  account to get one. Mr F says that the Gold and Platinum  accounts  were 
sold in a similar manner.
background
Mr Fs account  history is:
Opened as a fee-free  under 19s account  21 January 2000
Change to a fee-free Classic account   21 December 2004
Upgraded to a fee-paying Select packaged  account  27 January 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold packaged account  7 November 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum packaged  account  18 April 2008
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic  account  25 September 2012
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and concluded that the Select account had 
not been mis-sold,  but thought that the Gold and Platinum accounts  had been.  TSB 
disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman  to issue a final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Fs complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint, including what the 
adjudicator has said and all of the responses weve received from both parties. Having done 
so, I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part. Id like to explain why.
TSB has said that none of the accounts  were sold on an advised  or recommended basis.  But 
when the accounts were  sold,  TSB was operating under a different name and was operating 
under different sales practices to what it may follow now. And based on what I know about 
how packaged accounts were sold in the period that the Select, Gold and Platinum accounts 
were sold to Mr F, I think  its more likely that they were sold on an advised basis.  
This is an important distinction to make,  because  it meant that TSB was required to check 
that the packaged accounts were a good  fit for Mr Fs circumstances.
Select account
Mr F says that he went to TSB to get an arranged overdraft on his account. And Mr F says 
he was told that the he needed to upgrade his account to a Select account to do so. 
However, TSB has provided  evidence which suggests Mr F applied  for an overdraft on his 
account on 31 December  2004 - which was well before  his account was upgraded to a 
Select account. 
Ref: DRN47400852The customer notes suggest that his overdraft  was later temporarily increased for six months 
to £250 on 16 March 2006.  But this happened  a few months after the sale of the Select 
account. So Im not persuaded  that Mr F was misled  into thinking that he had to upgrade to 
the Select account  to have an overdraft or to increase it. On the contrary, the notes  suggest  
that the Select account was sold to Mr F as he could benefit from the mobile phone 
insurance  and he has said he had one at the time in our questionnaire. 
Mr Fs representative  said that he didnt need the mobile phone insurance as his phone was 
covered under her home insurance policy. Its not clear when exactly Mr Fs phone was 
covered by his representatives policy, but I can see notes from TSB that say Mr F had 
moved into a flat around the time of the Select  account sale.  So I think  its unlikely Mr Fs 
phone wouldve continued to be covered by his representatives contents insurance policy 
when the Select account was sold to him. Having considered what  Mr F and his 
representative have  said and the notes  that were made  during  the sale, I think that its more 
likely than not that Mr F did have a need for mobile phone insurance  at the time. And, 
alongside the mobile phone insurance benefit, Mr F wouldve also been able to benefit from 
a £50 interest free overdraft facility. So I think recommending  the Select account to Mr F was 
not unreasonable in the circumstances. 
As well as making sure the account  was right for Mr F, TSB also had to give Mr F the 
important information  about the account.  Because of the lack of information from the time, 
its not clear what information Mr F was given. But Ive not seen anything about  his 
circumstances at the time that makes  me think more information  about the account wouldve 
put him off from agreeing to it. After all, Mr F appears to have been aware of the monthly 
account fee and was apparently willing - at least at the time - to pay for it, knowing that fee-
free accounts were  available. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think the Select account  was mis-sold.
Gold account
I cant see from the customer  notes from the time that Mr F discussed his overdraft during or 
prior to the sale of the Gold  account.  And Mr F already had an overdraft with his Select 
account. So I dont  think Mr F agreed to the Gold account because he thought  he had to 
have it for an overdraft. I note that the account came with a £100 interest free overdraft,  so 
where Mr F recalls being sold it to get an overdraft, I suspect that Mr F might recall being  
told about this benefit and so agreed to it for that reason.
At the time of the sale, the Gold account cost £10 per month  i.e. £3 more  per month than the 
Select account cost.  And the main benefits  that the Gold  account  provided, that the Select 
didnt, were worldwide travel insurance  and a slightly  increased  interest  free overdraft benefit 
of £100, with a preferential  interest  rate on balances overdrawn by more  than that amount.
Looking at Mr Fs circumstances, I dont think TSBs recommendation to upgrade to the Gold  
account was a fair one. Firstly, I cant see that Mr F had a particular need for annual  
worldwide travel insurance. TSB has pointed out that there was an ATM  transaction abroad 
around three  months  before the Gold account sale. But Mr F has said he didnt regularly 
travel. And beyond  a one-off payment abroad, which happened before  the upgrade, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Mr F had a particular  need for on-going  worldwide travel 
insurance.
Ref: DRN47400853Looking at Mr Fs bank statements, I can see that he was regularly using his overdraft. But 
given the minimal savings  that hed make  on this benefit, I dont think  recommending  Mr F 
upgrade to the Gold account for this benefit  alone  wouldve been an appropriate 
recommendation either. And although there  is evidence that Mr F drove, Mr F already had 
breakdown cover on the Select account.
So taking everything into account, I dont think TSBs recommendation was appropriate, as I 
cant see that Mr F had a particular need  for the additional benefits  that it provided.  And I 
dont think Mr F wouldve agreed to the Gold account had TSB not recommended  the 
account to him. So I think Mr F has lost out from what TSB has done
Platinum account   
At the time of the sale, the Platinum account  cost £17 per month i.e. £5 per month more than 
the cost of the Gold account. The main additional  benefits of the Platinum account were 
worldwide family travel  insurance,  enhanced  breakdown  cover  and a £250 interest free 
overdraft benefit,  with a preferential  interest rate on balance overdrawn  by more than that 
amount.
Based on what I know about Mr Fs circumstances,  I dont think that he had an ongoing need 
for travel insurance, let alone  worldwide family  travel insurance. It seems that Mr F was 
driving at the time. Mr F has said that in 2008 he did buy a new car, whereas  prior to then he 
was driving his parents car. Mr F says that he already had breakdown  cover, but was 
covered for breakdown  cover with his prior packaged accounts. Having looked at the 
information available,  Im not persuaded that Mr F had a particular need for the enhanced 
levels of breakdown cover that the Platinum  account  provided.  
According to TSBs  notes,  Mr Fs overdraft facility was increased to £650  and he went on to 
use his overdraft frequently.  But  like the Gold account, because  of the level of Mr Fs agreed 
overdraft facility at the time, I dont think recommending Mr F upgrade to the Platinum 
account for this benefit on its own was reasonable either.
So I agree with the adjudicators findings  that it was not unreasonable  for TSB to have sold 
the Select account  to Mr F, but that it did mis-sell the Gold  and Platinum accounts  to Mr F 
and he has lost out because of this. 
Ref: DRN47400854what TSB needs to do to put matters right
To put things right, TSB should put Mr F back into the position he wouldve  have  been  in, if 
he hadnt been sold the Gold and Platinum accounts. So TSB should:
pay Mr F the difference in monthly account  fees between  what  he paid for the Gold 
and Platinum accounts and what he wouldve paid had he kept the Select  account  
instead, up until he downgraded his account  back to a fee-free account in September  
2012; and
add simple interest at 8% per year on each  of the above amounts from the date he 
paid the fees to the date of settlement;
If TSB is able to work  out any additional  savings Mr F has made from holding  the Gold  and 
Platinum accounts  that he wouldnt have received had he kept the Select account and it can 
show these calculations to him, it may, if it wants,  deduct this additional saving from any 
compensation that is paid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give Mr F a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint in part and require TSB Bank  
plc to do what I have  said above to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4740085