K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2000  at the same  time as taking a 15 year mortgage  loan. 
They applied for the lending and PPI policy at a meeting in a branch.
The policy provided  cover  on Mr W for disability and unemployment  subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. Halifax has told us it offered to repay £405.97  a month towards  
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim and cost £24.60 a 
month at the time.
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a mechanic  and had been with his employer  for around 
three years. Hes told us he wasnt entitled  to any sickness or redundancy pay if he wasnt  
able to work. Mrs W was employed  by the NHS and entitled to full sick pay for at least  six 
months. From what Mr and Mrs W have  said about  the health issues theyve suffered from, 
Mr Ws health issues didnt start until after the sale. Mr and Mrs W have said they didnt have 
anything else - like savings - to help make  mortgage  payments.
Halifax has sent us a screenshot to show the mortgage account closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ws representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  shouldve  told Mr and Mrs W 
about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN42392432The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
provide their responses  to the adjudicators  opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 but before  the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC)  
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN42392433I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
Ref: DRN42392434did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs W signed a separate 
box on their mortgage application  to say they wanted the cover.  They also signed a separate 
PPI application  form for the cover. So I think its likely Halifax made it clear the cover was 
something separate from the mortgage  loan. Ive nothing that makes me think  Mr and Mrs W 
were led to believe they had to sign the box or the PPI application if they didnt want  the 
cover. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W knew  the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs W say they cant  remember 
whether advice was provided. Taking  all this into account, I think Halifax  did provide advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs W. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. Also Mr and Mrs Ws application form for 
the PPI suggests  Halifax  established Mr W was the main income earner and wasnt  aware of 
any impending  unemployment. But I dont think Halifax  did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable and establish Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the cover.  For example Ive nothing to 
show that Halifax asked  Mr W what redundancy or sickness benefits his employer provided.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy. Mr W was the main earner. Aside from statutory 
pay, he would not receive  any pay if he suffered redundancy or was unable to work due 
to disability. So Mr and Mrs W couldve suffered a significant loss of income if Mr W lost 
his job or was too sick to work. Also Mr and Mrs W didnt have savings or anything else 
to help replace  any loss of Mr Ws income   so it seems likely their finances could be put 
under some  strain if Mr W lost his income,  even allowing  for Mrs Ws income.
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mr and Mrs W say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen  nothing  
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. There  
was nothing about Mr Ws employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult 
for them to claim. Also from what Ive seen I dont think the health  issues  Mr and Mrs W 
Ref: DRN42392435have told us about for Mr W arose until after the policy  started  but also the policy  terms 
didnt exclude  disability claims arising from pre-existing health issues.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr W was unable to do his own job or any similar job and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances,  including Mr Ws lack of employee sickness and 
redundancy provision  and Mr and Mrs Ws lack of savings and other means  to make 
their payments, which meant the policy could play an important role in helping  them  
with their mortgage payments if Mr W lost his income; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  and the 
potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs W be unable  to make the repayments on 
loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and to make an informed decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and were told what it 
would cost and what the benefit  would be. I have  reached this conclusion because  I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have taken the policy without any sense of what  it was for (and 
the box on their mortgage application said it was mortgage repayments  insurance and 
insurance against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. Also, the application 
form they signed for it showed what the premium and monthly benefit was likely to be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs W all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ws. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN42392436-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it shouldve done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done things properly.
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently,  or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr W was unable to work  because of disability or unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN42392437As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost and 
the monthly benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy,  such as 
the limitations and exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to do 
his own job or any similar job and also unable to do any paid work which  his experience,  
education or training reasonable qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking out the 
policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr W was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs W should the insured risks have become a reality. Also Mr W was in permanent 
employment, didnt  have existing health issues and the policy didnt exclude existing health 
issues. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr W wouldve been caught  by any of 
the significant exclusions. So I think Mr and Mrs W still had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs W from taking  out the policy, Mr and Mrs W, in their circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if Mr W was not only unable to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  to do.  
And I accept  it may have  given them pause  for thought  although  given their circumstances,  
the loss of income theyd suffer if Mr W wasnt working and the limited other means  they had 
to make up for such a loss, on balance I think they still would have been interested in taking 
out the cover.
Ref: DRN42392438Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made  would be limited to a 24 
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But Mr W wasnt entitled to sickness or redundancy pay beyond  any statutory entitlement  
and, aside from Mrs Ws pay, Mr and Mrs W had little else to fall back  on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would be of benefit to them and would help 
them manage the consequences should Mr W be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made  and it could help 
reduce Mr and Mrs Ws outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, ensuring their home  was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr W was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints 
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh  
the presumption.  They say we should  follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN42392439That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4239243