K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that One Insurance Limited  cancelled her motor insurance  policy.  She 
wants compensation and references  to the cancelation  removed  from any databases. Mrs S 
is represented in this matter by her niece, Ms S.
background
When Mrs S took out a policy  with One Insurance  she said she had eight years previous No 
Claims Discount (NCD). Its broker asked her for proof of her NCD entitlement to validate the 
policy. One Insurance then cancelled the policy  saying that Mrs S had made  a 
misrepresentation at the start. But it didnt  then explain  what  this was. Mrs S had to find 
alternative cover elsewhere at short notice. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  One 
Insurance hadnt provided evidence that Mrs S had misrepresented  her NCD. He saw that 
her previous  insurer confirmed that she had eight years NCD. 
The adjudicator recommended that One Insurance should refund Mrs S her fees and 
charges and charge her pro-rata for her time on cover. He thought One Insurance  should 
provide Mrs S with a letter saying that her policy had been cancelled in error and remove 
any reference to the cancellation from any databases. And he thought One Insurance should 
pay Mrs S £200 compensation for the stress and upset caused  by its actions.
One Insurance replied that it had cancelled Mrs Ss policy  because  the only evidence  it had 
of her NCD was five years earned on a mobility  scheme policy.  It said the NCD wasnt 
earned on a private  car, as required by her policy. It said if Mrs S had provided the correct 
evidence from her previous insurer then it wouldnt  have cancelled.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs S has also complained separately  about  the actions of the broker. I cant 
comment on this and I will consider here just her complaint about One Insurance.  
One Insurance said it cancelled Mrs Ss policy because she misrepresented  her NCD years. 
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
look to see that it asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the misrepresentation. 
The adjudicator asked One Insurance  for evidence of the question it asked Mrs S about her 
NCD when she applied  for her policy. But I cant see that its provided this. It has provided 
evidence that it asked Mrs S to check her information after she bought the policy.  Its also 
provided evidence  that the broker asked Mrs S for evidence of her NCD to validate her policy.  
But I dont think this is relevant to Mrs Ss complaint. Without  this evidence I cant say that One 
Insurance asked  Mrs S a clear question about  her NCD when she bought her policy. 
Ref: DRN40701612The adjudicator also asked One Insurance for evidence that this information  about the NCD 
would affect whether the policy was offered. We expect an insurer to provide its underwriting 
guidelines as evidence of this. But One Insurance has provided the guidelines  relevant after 
Mrs S bought her policy. It hasnt  provided  further information after this was brought to its 
attention. So I cant say that the information Mrs S provided would affect  whether  or not a 
policy would have been offered.
Mrs Ss previous insurer provided  a letter stating that Mrs S had earned eight years NCD at 
the date her policy with One Insurance started. One Insurance said this included five years 
on a mobility scheme policy, which it didnt accept.  But I havent  been provided with any 
evidence that Mrs Ss NCD years werent earned on a private car policy.  So, regardless of 
the questions  asked or the underwriting criteria that may have been  in place, I cant then say 
that Mrs S misrepresented her NCD to One Insurance. And so I think One Insurance  unfairly  
cancelled Mrs Ss policy.
Mrs S had to find alternative cover  at short notice because of the cancellation. She had to 
declare this to the new insurer and I understand that her premium  was affected. Mrs S was 
charged cancellation fees by One Insurance and her broker, although she was later refunded 
£55.99 by the broker. She said she was caused  stress and lost sleep because of the error.  
I think One Insurance should make this right for Mrs S and pay her £200 compensation for 
the trouble and inconvenience caused  her. This is what  Id recommend in similar situations 
and also taking into account that One Insurance didnt explain to Mrs S what 
misrepresentation she had made at the time.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
1.Reimburse Mrs S for all the fees charged for the policy to be set up and cancelled.
2.Charge Mrs S for her time on cover at a pro-rata  rate without applying short-term rates.
3.Remove record  of the cancellation from any internal or external databases.
4.Provide Mrs S with a letter stating that her policy had been cancelled in error and she 
neednt declare this to future insurers. 
5.Pay Mrs S £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by its actions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4070161