K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Miss T took out the MPPI policy in 2003 with a mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
The policy was sold as part of a package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
The TMPP also provided critical  illness and life cover. But Im only looking  at the sale of the 
MPPI here, as thats what Miss T has complained about.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss T has said that the MPPI wasnt presented  as optional  and she felt pressured  to take 
out the policy. I know she feels strongly  about this and that shes  sent us a statement  
from who I understand is her mum, who I understand  they say was also present at the 
sales meeting. I accept its possible that Miss T wasnt  given a clear choice and that she 
was pressured.  But overall I just dont  think theres enough  evidence  for me to say this is 
what most  likely  happened. And overall,  including  what  I know about Bank of Scotlands 
sales practices  at the time, whilst this is a difficult decision,  I think  its most likely that 
Bank of Scotland made it clear that Miss T didnt have to take out the MPPI and she 
chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI  to Miss T so it had to check that the MPPI was 
right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  And whilst I understand Miss T 
has said she was in a secure job and in good health, the MPPI  was designed to provide 
protection for the unexpected. I understand Miss T has said she was entitled to sick pay 
and that she may also have had some savings, but the policy couldve paid out for up to 
24 months  per claim if Miss T was unable to work or lost her job, at what couldve been a 
difficult time.  The mortgage was a significant commitment secured on her home.  And I 
think the MPPI  was a sensible  precaution.  So I dont  think I can say it was wrong of 
Bank of Scotland to recommend the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss T about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the MPPI would have  
put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN45370632Ive thought about everything Miss T has said. But for the reasons explained  above,  these 
points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss T paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Miss T back  
some of the cost of the MPPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Miss T now Ive issued my final decision, if 
it hasnt done  so already. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4537063