K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited has sent him promotional  
material despite him opting  out of receiving  any marketing  or promotional material.  He also 
complains about  how his complaint was then handled.
background 
Mr M has opted out of receiving any marketing or promotional material from American  
Express. But he says hes received  e-mails promoting its shop small campaign and its 
app. Mr M says he was told he wouldnt  receive any further such  information when he 
complained but thats not been the case.  He says he was promised a call back  when he 
complained but didnt  receive it. Mr M says this has had an enormous impact  on him, 
causing stress and wasting his time.  He says American Express has ignored  his data 
protection rights and should stop e-mailing  him in this way. Mr M also says that he should  be 
paid compensation.  
American Express says Mr M is not enrolled for receiving marketing information but it says in 
line with its privacy notice, its entitled  to send Mr M service related information.  So it says 
the e-mails Mr M received were not marketing e-mails and its not made a mistake.  American 
Express accepts it didnt  deal with Mr Ms complaint as it should  have and has apologised 
and paid £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and says American Express  shouldnt be allowed  to decide 
which of its campaigns are in his best interests  to receive information about. Our investigator  
asked American Express if it could ensure there  were no further  e-mails  sent to Mr M and 
American Express said it would stop these types of e-mails. The investigator thought 
American Express was entitled to send this type of material and had acted in line with its 
privacy statement information  which Mr M was given. The investigator  accepted  American 
Express hadnt dealt  with Mr Ms complaint as it should have but thought  the £50 gesture of 
goodwill payment was fair and reasonable taking into account the impact the mistake had 
upon Mr M.
Mr M didnt  accept that view and says the compensation isnt enough.
American Express now says its unable to stop the e-mails and says its made  a business 
decision to continue sending them  in line with its policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that American Express has dealt fairly with this complaint and I dont require it to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint for the reasons I will explain. I realise 
Mr M will be disappointed by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly he feels about 
whats happened.
Ive looked at American Expresss privacy policy which Im satisfied Mr M would have seen  
when he decided to opt out of receiving any marketing material and when he opened the 
account. Im satisfied that policy  makes clear that American Express will continue to send its 
customers communication relevant to the servicing of an account and including any account 
benefits. So I dont  think American Express has made a mistake or acted  unfairly by sending  
Ref: DRN47383832the material it did. And I dont think the information that was sent was marketing material but 
information relevant  to Mr Ms account.  I appreciate Mr M says it shouldnt be for American 
Express to determine  what  information he should  be sent in his best interests. But Im 
satisfied that American Express position was made clear  in its privacy document  and it 
would have been up to Mr M to decide if he wished to continue with his application or 
continue his business relationship with American Express  in those circumstances.
I can see that American Express initially said it would be able to prevent Mr M receiving this 
type of material  and e-mails. But its now said that is not the case due to a business 
decision. I accept  Mr M will be frustrated to be told that and I also think  it would have been 
helpful for American Express  to have clarified  its position before telling Mr M it could stop all 
e-mails. But Im satisfied that American Express is entitled to make such  commercial 
business decisions and that is not something I can fairly interfere  in, as we are not the 
regulator of American  Express.
There is no question here that American  Express didnt deal with Mr Ms complaint as it 
should have. I have no doubt Mr M was caused inconvenience by not receiving a promised  
call back. But Im satisfied  that American  Express has accepted  it made a mistake  and has 
apologised. Im also satisfied that its paid a fair and reasonable  amount  of compensation of 
£75. I think that award fairly reflects the level of its mistake  and the impact that mistake  had 
upon Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M will remain  concerned about future material he may receive from American 
Express. For the reasons Ive explained  Im satisfied the material he was sent was in line 
with American Expresss privacy statement. But going forward no doubt Mr M will consider if 
he wishes to maintain a business relationship  with American Express in circumstances 
where he may receive future  e-mails and material from it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms main  complaint and that 
American Express Services Europe Limited  has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation in respect of Mr Ms other complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4738383