K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited  have treated him unfairly,  by trying to repossess  a 
car he got under a hire purchase agreement with them.
background
In January 2017, Mr C got a car under a hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse. A few 
months later, Mr C missed one of the repayments,  but he managed  to pay off the arrears  
soon after.  Over the next year, Black Horses records show  there were other missed or late 
payments. In June  2018, Mr C stopped  making  payments altogether,  towards the 
agreement.
Around this time, Mr C says his financial circumstances changed and he moved to a new 
house. He says he told Black Horse  about his change of address. Because the repayments  
towards hire purchase agreement werent  being  made by Mr C, Black  Horse sent him a 
default notice.  Along with other  letters, the default notice was sent to Mr Cs previous 
address. The default  notices told of Black Horses intentions to transfer the account to an 
agent, who would try to reach a repayment plan with Mr C, to repay the arrears.
Mr C sent the agent an email, proposing  to repay  Black Horse  weekly. But, the agent  says 
they were unable to speak with Mr C directly, and that this was necessary  to talk more  about 
Mr Cs offer.  The agent says they traced  Mr C to his new address and tried to speak with him 
again. 
By December 2018, the agent  and Black Horse say they hadnt managed to speak with 
Mr C. As the agreement remained unpaid, Black  Horse sent Mr C a letter  notifying  him of 
their intentions to repossess the car. This letter also went to Mr Cs previous address, but 
Black Horse  say a copy was hand  delivered to Mr Cs new address.
A month later, Black Horse terminated  the hire purchase agreement and told Mr C that they 
will repossess the car. Mr C says that at this point, he made  an offer to repay  the majority of 
the agreement, to try and stop the repossession from happening.  But, Black  Horse refused 
his offer.  Mr C was unhappy  with Black Horses decision  and contacted  us to complain.
Black Horse  placed any repossession on hold, whilst they looked  into Mr Cs complaint. In 
their final response,  they said no repayment  had been made since June 2018 and the 
account was in arrears.  They said they needed to speak with Mr C directly,  to see if he could 
repay the arrears.
Mr C didnt accept this and says he wasnt aware of their plans to repossess the car, as all 
Black Horses letters had been  sent to his previous address. One of our investigators  
considered Mr Cs complaint. He tried to help find a way where  Mr C could repay  the arrears  
gradually and keep the car. Mr C made  another  offer to repay  a lump sum towards the 
agreement. But, Black Horse declined Mr Cs suggestion and said it would take him too long, 
to bring the account back up to date.
The investigator concluded that Black  Horse had given Mr C enough time and opportunity to 
repay the arrears.  He found that Mr C was given notice of Black  Horses plans, to repossess 
the car if the agreement went unpaid. So, he said that Black  Horse hadnt treated Mr C 
unfairly.
Ref: DRN41970882Mr C didnt accept this and says he wasnt given enough time to put together a plan with the 
agent to repay the arrears. He also said Black  Horse had sent their notification  of 
repossession to the wrong address. The investigator  didnt change  his conclusions and the 
car remains with Mr C.
Mr Cs case has now been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the arrears on Mr Cs hire purchase agreement
I have thought carefully about the repayment  of Mr Cs hire purchase agreement. I can see 
from the account statements that Mr C missed  a repayment within the first four months of 
having the car. I can also see that there were other times during the following year, where 
payments were missed.  
The account  statements  show  that Mr C was able to make  smaller, more frequent  payments, 
to try and repay the arrears. But, by the time Mr C stopped making payments altogether,  the 
account was not up to date. So, I think it was reasonable  for Black Horse to want to engage  
with Mr C, about his account and talk about  his circumstances. 
Black Horses contact notes show that they sent letters to Mr C, to try and reach  a 
repayment arrangement  on five occasions, from January 2017 until June 2018. This was 
before he moved  to a new house. I have  seen copies of those letters  and I think Black Horse 
attempted to help Mr C with his plans to repay the arrears.
The terms of Mr Cs hire purchase agreement say:
If you fail to pay a Repayment we will write to remind you. If you fail to pay that and the next 
Repayment, i.e. two consecutive Repayments then this will mean that you no longer intend  
to comply with this Agreement. (This is called Repudiation). If that happens then we will be 
entitled to accept this and end this Agreement.
Having considered all the evidence, I think Black  Horse treated Mr C fairly, by trying  to talk to 
him about the arrears on his hire purchase agreement. I also think  Black Horse followed the 
terms of the account,  in that they started debt recovery action at the appropriate time.
Mr Cs change of address
Mr C has explained that due to a change  in his circumstances, he moved to a new house in 
June 2018. Mr C has told us that he changed his address with Black Horse,  soon after the 
move. And after three months he says he started  to receive letters, which  proved they had 
his new details. 
Around that time, in September 2018,  I can see from the agents records,  that they 
exchanged emails with Mr C. I can also see that they were  trying to trace  Mr C, as they 
Ref: DRN41970883became aware  that he had moved  to a new house. The emails show that Mr C had proposed  
to repay  a weekly amount to reduce the arrears, but that the agent needed to talk to him 
directly, to discuss his income  and expenditure. The notes  continue on to show  that the 
agent wasnt successful  here.
The agents  records  show that by August 2018,  they were aware Mr C had moved,  but didnt 
know where. They also show that they started to trace Mr C, by sending letters to a possible 
address held by him. Black Horse  continued to send  letters to Mr Cs previous home, until 
December 2018.  It was at this point that their agents records  show they had successfully 
traced Mr Cs car, to his new address. 
I have also looked  at Black Horses  contact records and I cannot see that Mr Cs address 
was changed.  So, I think the letters Mr C received at his new address  in September  2018,  
were from Black Horse, trying to find out where  he was. I think that it wasnt until December 
2018, when their agents visited  Mr Cs new home, that they could  confirm  that hed changed 
his address.
Black Horse  say that during this visit in late December 2018, they hand delivered  a notice 
telling Mr C that they were  terminating  the contract. This was supported  by what Mr C 
explained, when  he first told us about his complaint. So, on balance, I think  Black Horse 
notified Mr C, that they had ended his contract  and wanted to repossess the car.
Although Black Horse  didnt change Mr Cs address  when he said he told them about it, I 
think he became of aware of their intention to repossess the car, when they gave him their 
notice of termination in late December 2018.  I think Mr C was aware of the arrears on his 
agreement, due to previous notices and what  he knew  about  the missed  payments. So, I 
think Mr C knew  his account  was underpaid and that Black  Horse were likely to take the 
action that followed.
the repayment plans and lump sum offers
Since Black Horse first attempted  to speak with Mr C, about the arrears on his agreement 
and his financial circumstances, four repayment arrangements  have been discussed. Black 
Horses records  show  that from March to June  2018, Mr C made  sporadic payments to them,  
but these didnt repay the arrears. After  this time, any repayment stopped altogether.
Later, in October  2018 Black Horses  agents spoke to Mr C about his proposal  to pay £75 a 
week towards the arrears.  But, neither the agent nor Mr C followed this up with a meeting to 
discuss the overall affordability of his suggestion.  I think it was prudent of Black  Horse and 
their agent  to want to check  that Mr C could afford  the repayments, given what  they already 
knew about his financial circumstances.
I think that either party could have made more efforts here. But, I also think  that Mr Cs offer 
of repayment  needed  to be realistic,  in that it needed  to take the account  out of arrears. 
Whilst his suggestion  would have seen him pay more than the scheduled  monthly 
repayments, I dont  think Black Horse were  unreasonable to try and make  sure it was 
sustainable for Mr C. 
And, no repayments were  made by Mr C anyway, after the offer in October  2018.  So, I think  
it was reasonable  for Black Horse  not to take Mr Cs offer further and look to try and speak to 
him about an alternative, or about him giving the car back.
Ref: DRN41970884Mr C has told us that he made an offer to settle the majority of the agreement  in early 2019, 
but says Black Horse  refused to agree.  Black  Horses records  show  that they spoke to Mr C 
in January 2019, about a large lump sum repayment. They  also show  that Black Horse  told 
Mr C they would still collect the car from him, but place  a hold on the sale at auction, until his 
full repayment  was made. 
Having carefully considered these notes, I agree that Mr C did make this offer.  But, I dont 
think Black  Horse refused  it out of hand.  I think Black Horse  were willing to give Mr C the car 
back, if he could  pay the majority of what was due under the hire purchase agreement. Mr C 
didnt make any subsequent payment, so I dont  think Black Horse treated him unfairly,  by 
continuing to try to collect the car.
Lastly, our investigator  put forward another suggestion from Mr C, where by hed make  a 
lump sum repayment and pay weekly, until the agreement was no longer in arrears. Black 
Horse declined to accept the offer and said this would mean Mr C would still be repaying the 
agreement, after the date when it had been scheduled to end.
Having considered everything, I think Black Horse  have tried to work with Mr C at various 
times since in last repayment  in June 2018. And, I can see that the agreement  remains 
unpaid, since Mr Cs final offer was declined by Black Horse in May 2019. 
I also note that Mr C still has the car in his possession. So, I think Black  Horse have been 
reasonable with Mr Cs personal circumstances, despite no repayments being made to his 
agreement with them.
In all the circumstances, I think Black Horse have  treated Mr C fairly. I accept that its not 
clear when Black Horse should have changed his address. But, I think  its reasonable that 
Mr C knew his account had been underpaid. 
I also think Mr C has had a fair opportunity, since he was given  the notice of repossession in 
December 2018,  to reach an appropriate  repayment plan with Black Horse  and their agents. 
I think Mr C was made aware that unless the arrears  are satisfied, that Black Horse will look 
to repossess the car.
Although I sympathise that not having  the car may have an impact on Mr Cs personal  
circumstances, I dont  think  Black  Horse have treated Mr C unfairly  in their process to 
repossess the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197088