K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about Barclays  Bank UK Plc over the service  she received when trying  to 
access her mothers  online banking. 
background
Mrs J holds an account with Barclays. And in March 2019 she contacted Barclays  because 
she was unable to see her mothers accounts  when  logging  in online. Mrs J holds Power of 
Attorney (POA)  for her mother. She was concerned  that shed be unable to pay bills that 
were due. She also transfers money from an ISA to a current  account for her mothers day to 
day living. 
Barclays advised that thered been a problem setting up Mrs J as POA. As a result, Mrs J 
would need to go into branch with her mother to get things sorted. During  the call the advisor 
offered £100 in compensation  and some flowers.  Mrs J complained  that the call cost her 
£6.74 and took too long, causing her to have to cancel  plans.
A week later Mrs J visited her local branch with her mother. After around two hours in 
branch, it was understood the issue had been resolved. However when Mrs J got home, she 
found she still couldnt see her mothers accounts  online. So she called Barclays and the 
complaint was reopened. 
The following  day, Barclays called back.  This call made Mrs J feel anxious, and led to her 
having a panic attack. She asked for her husband to speak on her behalf. She was 
reassured this time the issue had been resolved.  Barclays sent a letter  to confirm this, and it 
offered an additional £200 to make things  right.  Mrs J didnt accept this offer at the time as 
she wanted time to think about it. 
In April, Mrs J experienced  something  similar, but this time the cause  was different. She now 
had full access to her mothers accounts. But Mrs J wasnt happy with the way her complaint 
was handled,  so came to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays needed to increase its £300 offer.  She thought 
Barclays made reasonable adjustments for Mrs J when they were made aware of her 
anxiety. She also felt theyd resolved things in a timely manner. 
Mrs J feels that the points made in the view dont add up. She feels they shouldve done  
more to help her considering the severity  of her anxiety. She said she feels  victimised  by 
Barclays, and wants £500 to put things  right. Because of this the complaint was passed to 
me to look into. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Js 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to her. But Ill explain my reasons why 
below.
Barclays have explained why Mrs J was having issues  accessing  her mothers accounts  
online. Originally, she wasnt added to the account properly, which  was an error. For this to 
be completed she needed to visit a branch. This was so the relevant  documents could be 
Ref: DRN48767562copied, and so that Barclays could  get authorisation from Mrs Js mother. Banks  needs  to 
take steps to ensure only authorised people have access to their customers accounts. So 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask for copies of the documents  it 
needed. Ive not seen  any evidence  to show Barclays was aware of Mrs Js anxiety at this 
point. So I dont consider they were in a position  to have done anything differently. 
The branch  didnt complete the process properly because they had two profiles for Mrs J. 
And the incorrect profile was linked to her mothers accounts. Barclays  has admitted  this was 
a mistake on their part. But they identified this within a couple of days,  and corrected their 
mistake. This meant Mrs J was then able to see and access her mothers  accounts.  
The second  time Mrs J couldnt log on was unrelated. This was  due to an IT glitch and was 
resolved on the same  day Mrs J phoned  in. I know that Mrs J feels  shes  been given different 
reasons for the problems with her online access.  But thats because the reasons were 
different, and not because the members  of staff were unsure or trying  to upset her. 
These issues took place  over a two week period. Barclays acted quickly when trying  to help 
Mrs J and mostly did so within a 24 hour period.  The longest  delay  was between the first 
call, and Mrs Js visit to branch. This happened just over a week after Mrs Js call. And 
I understand this delay  was caused in part to her anxiety and her mothers  mobility issues.  
As mentioned above, Barclays werent  aware of Mrs Js condition at that time.  And its told 
us a home visit could  have been  arranged if it had known. Barclays  adviser could tell how 
upset Mrs J was on the phone.  Thats why she was offered £100 and flowers. But theres  
nothing to suggest they shouldve known the severity of Mrs Js anxiety. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to say that because  someone  is upset on the phone,  Barclays  should 
assume a home visit is necessary. So I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays 
responsible for the time it took Mrs J to be able to visit a branch. 
Barclays sent us the recordings  of some  of the conversations  it had with Mrs J about her 
online access. Ive listened to these  calls and reviewed  their call notes. And I think  Barclays  
did as much as possible  to try and support  Mrs J and ease her feelings  of anxiety. It took 
steps such as offering  call backs at a later date and giving her one point of contact.  It also 
agreed to speak to Mrs Js husband on her behalf  when needed. These are the type of 
solutions I would have expected Barclays to offer. So Im satisfied Barclays took reasonable 
steps to help Mrs J communicate with it effectively. 
Mrs J has confirmed she was able to pay all the relevant bills for her mother. So fortunately,  
the problems with Mrs Js online  access didnt cause any financial  loss for her or her mother. 
However, I do recognise the possibility of not being  able to pay her mothers bills on time 
would have been stressful. And I cant ignore the fact the stress of this may have been more 
difficult for Mrs J given  her anxiety. 
In deciding how Barclays should put things  right,  Ive considered  impact  the service  has had 
on Mrs J. This includes how they treated her during the conversations they had with her, and 
whether any delays were  caused in dealing with her complaint. I accept that Mrs J has been  
very upset  by this complaint. And had the POA been set up correctly, she wouldnt have had 
cause to complain.  But once Barclays was aware  of the issues Im satisfied it treated Mrs J 
in a courteous and professional manner. Im also persuaded Barclays  tried to fix their 
mistake and the IT glitch as soon as possible. 
Ref: DRN48767563Barclays has already  offered Mrs J a total of £300  in recognition of its mistake and the stress 
this caused her. Barclays have acknowledged the impact of the online access  problems. And 
for the reason mentioned above, Im satisfied Barclays worked with Mrs J to get this matter  
resolved. So, I consider  Barclays offer of £300  is fair  and I wont  be asking it to do 
anything further  to put things right.
Barclays has confirmed the £100 offered by the first adviser has been credited to Mrs Js 
account. The additional £200 offered hasnt been paid as it was waiting to find out if Mrs J 
accepted it. So, if Mrs J would like this amount  credited  to her account, shell need to contact 
Barclays to do this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4876756