K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) failed to keep him updated about his 
unsuccessful claim with Lender C.
background
Mr R instructed TCG to pursue a claim for mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) on a 
credit card account he held with Lender C. TCG  received a response to their data subject 
access request (DSAR) which stated PPI had been  present on the account. TCG submitted 
a claim on Mr Rs behalf after they received a valid questionnaire.
Lender C responded explaining that PP had never been applied to the account  and no 
premiums had been taken. So, no refund would be provided.
Mr R chased TCG for an update on a number of occasions and TCG told him they were 
awaiting a response  when in fact his claim had already been unsuccessful.  Mr R was 
unhappy with this and raised a complaint.
TCG admitted they provided the wrong  information  and offered  Mr R £20 to recognise  their 
error. Mr R was unhappy with the amount offered and so referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint  and didnt uphold it. They explained TCGs offer 
was fair as the error  didnt  alter the fact Mr Rs claim had been turned down by lender C. 
TCG didnt respond. Mr R disagreed with this view and re-iterated his belief that the 
monetary amount should be greater.
As Mr R disagreed, the complaint  has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive seen that TCG initially conducted a free PPI check. Lender C confirmed through  this 
check that a credit card account held PPI. So, TCG  submitted a claim on Mr Rs behalf.
Before submitting the claim, TCG  needed  a PPI questionnaire to support Mr Rs claim.  
Between December  2018 and February 2019,  Mr R and TCG were in regular communication 
to ensure the questionnaire was completed correctly. Although this delay must have been 
frustrating for Mr R, I cant agree  TCG failed to keep  him updated at this point as Ive seen  
they contacted  him a number of times  through different platforms.
The claim was submitted on 1 February.  Lender C responded on 7 February  rejecting Mr Rs 
claim, saying  the account contained no PPI. This contradicts the response they provided to 
TCG following  the free PPI check. 
I understand this would have been  confusing for Mr R when  hed been  told there was PPI 
but I dont think  this was TCGs fault.  Its Lender  C who explained their position  only after the 
claim had been  made and TCG were unable to control this. So I think they acted in good 
faith when submitting the claim.
Ref: DRN48853472However, Ive seen TCGs system notes which show they didnt change the claims status  to 
rejected until 5 April.  Although I havent seen evidence of the contact  Mr R had with TCG 
between this time, its reasonable to assume each time he requested  an update  he would 
have received the incorrect information.  In their final response, TCG accepted on two 
occasions Mr R was told the claim was ongoing  when  it was in fact rejected.
I understand when  Mr R realised hed been  waiting on a decision that had already been 
made he wouldve  been left both disappointed  and frustrated. However, even  if TCG had 
made Mr R aware his claim had been  rejected correctly, this wouldnt alter Lender Cs 
position that no PPI refund was due. So, Mr R hasnt incurred any financial loss. 
When considering  the above, I think TCGs offer of £20 is reasonable to recognise the error 
they made on two occasions when Mr R requested an update. So, I dont direct  TCG  to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about The Claims Guys Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4885347