K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent him money that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr A took out one loan with Uncle Buck in January 2018 for £400.  He was due to repay  the 
loan in three instalments with a maximum monthly  repayment of £173.
Mr A says Uncle Buck was irresponsible to agree to lend to him. He wants  Uncle Buck  to 
pay him compensation.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld.  She thought that Uncle  
Buck carried  out adequate checks before agreeing to lend.  And that based on the 
information Uncle Buck had about  Mr A, it looked  as though he could afford to repay the 
loan.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the adjudicators  recommendation so his complaint came to me.     
Mr A said that he was due to repay  other short term and revolving credit lenders more  than 
£3,460 in the same month was due to make  his first repayment to Uncle  Buck. Mr A said that 
this showed he couldnt afford the loan from Uncle  Buck.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mr A could  repay any money that it lent to him. Any 
checks had to be proportionate to things  such as the amount of the loan, the repayments 
and any borrowing history. But there  wasnt  a set list of checks  it had to carry out.
Uncle Buck  expected Mr A to repay the loan over three instalments. He hadnt borrowed 
from Uncle Buck before  so it didnt have any lending  history  to take into account. 
Uncle Buck  asked Mr A about his outgoings, including any credit commitments  and it carried 
out a credit check.  This was Mr As first loan and the repayments represented a very modest 
proportion of his declared monthly income of £3,240.
In the absence of any other evidence to the contrary, I wouldve agreed  with the adjudicator  
that it was reasonable of Uncle Buck to agree to lend. However, Uncle  Buck gave us a copy 
of the credit  check that it carried out when Mr A applied for the loan. 
I had a close look at the results  of the credit  search. Mr A was due to make  a number of 
monthly payments  on various loans around the time that he was due to pay the first two 
instalments on the Uncle Buck loan. I could  see that the payments due in January  2018 
come to around £3,500.
I thought that Uncle Buck  had enough information  to realise  that Mr A mustve owed more  to 
creditors than hed disclosed. Some of the other  loans had fairly short  repayment  terms 
which might  indicate  that they were short term or instalment loans. I thought  it was 
Ref: DRN43765522proportionate to expect Uncle Buck to act on this information and find out more  about Mr As 
other debts.
If Uncle Buck had tried to verify Mr As other  regular  and short term lending credit 
commitments it seemed likely that it wouldve discovered that Mr A was repaying  several  
short term lenders  around  £2,000 towards the end of January 2018.  Mr A was also using 
revolving credit and made a repayment  towards that lender of almost  £1,190   again at the 
end of January  2018. Finally, Mr A was repaying  around £173 a month on at least one 
longer term loan. 
By adding  just the other short term lending commitments to Mr As declared outgoings of 
£1,100, he wouldve been left with around  £140  of disposable income. This wasnt enough to 
afford to repay the loan to Uncle  Buck.
I thought the fact that Mr A continued to borrow thousands of pounds each month from the 
revolving credit provider demonstrated that the lending from Uncle  Buck wasnt  sustainable. 
That is Mr A couldnt afford  to repay  Uncle Buck without borrowing elsewhere.  With better  
checks, I didnt think  Uncle  Buck wouldve  agreed  to lend.
I thought that Mr A has lost out so Uncle Buck should pay him compensation. I wasnt  sure 
whether Mr A still owed  money to Uncle Buck. As hed had the benefit of the money lent, it 
seemed fair to allow  Uncle  Buck to choose apply the refund  against any outstanding  balance  
if there is one. 
If after applying the refund, Mr A still owed money on the principal balance,  I expected  Uncle 
Buck to treat any repayment offer that he might make, sympathetically and reasonably.
further submissions
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with my provisional decision. It says that the credit search it 
carried out showed that Mr A was only using about 62% of his revolving  credit  limit of just 
over £3,000. Uncle Buck says there isnt any evidence of Mr A borrowing thousands  of 
pounds each month from revolving credit  providers.
Uncle Buck  says that although Mr A has outstanding short term loan balances of around 
£1,250 and had paid £608 in the previous  month,  he wasnt expected to repay £1,250 all at 
the same  time.
Uncle Buck  says that there wasnt any evidence of the extent of Mr As indebtedness  to 
other payday lenders from the information that he provided at the time of the loan. And Uncle 
Buck says that the maximum outstanding balance on revolving credit  at the time was under 
£2,000.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  that it shouldve been prompted to dig deeper in to Mr As finances 
before agreeing to lend. Uncle Buck says that based  on the information that Mr A gave he 
had more than £2,200  from which to make any other credit  repayments. 
Ref: DRN43765523Finally Uncle  Buck  questions why Mr A has gone on to make further applications for loans 
after receiving its final response. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence and argument to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate what Uncle  Buck says about Mr As revolving credit  but I explained  in my 
provisional decision that even if I excluded the revolving credit repayments, Mr As other 
short term lending commitments  meant that he didnt have enough disposable income  left to 
afford the loan from Uncle Buck. 
I also made the point  about Mr A continuing  to take on more  revolving credit after hed 
borrowed from Uncle Buck to demonstrate that Mr A wasnt  able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way  that is without borrow more money.
I still think that there was enough information  on the credit report  that Uncle Buck  gave to us 
to suggest that Mr A was due to make  fairly  significant monthly  payments to other  creditors.  I 
consider that Uncle Buck  shouldve acted  on this information rather than rely on what Mr A 
told it about his finances. 
I cant say why Mr A went on to make more  loan applications. One explanation is that Mr A 
still owed money to a number of other  lenders so had to juggle various loans at the same 
time in an effort  to keep  up with his repayments.  Mr As bank account was also heavily 
overdrawn so he mightve been borrowing more to keep  within  his overdraft limit. I dont think  
the fact that Mr A asked to borrow more money  from Uncle Buck means  that I cant find the 
original loan wasnt suitable for him.
Overall, I still consider that the results  of Uncle Bucks credit  check  suggested that Mr A 
didnt have enough money  to repay  the loan in a sustainable  way. If Uncle  Buck had gone on 
to gather a more  comprehensive picture  of Mr As finances, I dont think it wouldve  agreed to 
lend. 
It follows that I still consider its fair to uphold Mr As complaint. Im grateful to Uncle Buck  for 
confirming that Mr A has now repaid the loan.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges Mr A paid on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr As credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN43765524my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to take the 
steps outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4376552