K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that a loan made  to her by Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd was 
unaffordable and amounted to irresponsible lending. She wants any outstanding amount on 
the debt written off and any default removed from her credit  file.
background
Miss D says in early 2015 she obtained  a fixed-sum loan agreement  for £15,000. She tells 
us at the time she already  had another personal loan as well as an overdraft facility. Miss D 
says shed lost her full-time job in December 2014. Since when shes  worked on an ad hoc 
basis but her income is not stable. She feels shes been trapped  in a spiral of debt and has 
had to take other loans to repay the Creation loan.
Creation told us that at the time of the loan Miss Ds application had stated she was in full 
time employment with a monthly income  in excess of £2,800 and a rent/mortgage  of £1,100  
per month. I addition it had checked  Miss Ds credit  file and applied its own internal lending 
criteria. As Miss D met the relevant criteria the loan was granted.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  She said there  was 
nothing to show that Miss D had informed Creation shed  lost her full-time job and her 
income wasnt fixed. She felt Creation had carried out adequate checks to ensure the loan 
was affordable. And she wouldnt be asking it to write off the outstanding debt or remove the 
default.
Miss D didnt accept this outcome. She maintained  the loan had been unaffordable and 
made irresponsibly. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman  has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Miss D has experienced a lengthy  period in which shes faced financial 
difficulties. It cant be easy and I can see its caused  her a good  deal of anxiety and upset.
As this complaint  is about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending Ill explain in detail our 
approach to such cases. Prior to offering credit, a lender is required to make  adequate 
checks. These should be sufficient and proportionate to a number of factors including, but 
not limited to, the size of the loan and the amount of periodic payments.  Theres no set list of 
checks - each business can decide  what information it requires. And it can take into account  
information which a customer  has provided.  Its important to understand that the point at 
which the lending  decision  is judged is when the loan was made. And additional credit  taken  
on after a loan is made or other changes of circumstance  arent  matters  which  Creation 
could have known  about in making the lending  decision. 
The evidence shows Miss Ds application stated she was in full-time employment  with a net 
monthly income of just over £2,800 and that she was paying rent of £1,100  per month.  
Ref: DRN40532752Theres also an additional affordability  assessment the details of which  the adjudicator 
included in her view - so I neednt repeat this. This was based on Creations  check upon 
Miss Ds credit file, the information provided by Miss D and an assumed figure for living 
expenses in addition  to the rent figure. This led to a calculation that Miss Ds disposable 
income was over £800 per month.  And the check had shown  shed had no default or County 
Court Judgments in the previous six years. Her credit score passed  Creations limit.
Whilst Creation does not appear to have  identified another loan which  Miss D was paying at 
£235 per month its unlikely this would have affected  the lending  decision. It still left an 
apparently substantial disposable income  and the other loan was paid up to date.
Miss D has provided evidence that her income in the months leading up to the loan - apart 
from December when  she received additional payment in relation to the termination of her 
employment - was usually  only around £2,200 per month and her rent was £1800 per month.  
Additional expenditure meant  her outgoings  exceeded her income.
Whilst Ive seen evidence  in support of these figures Creation is reasonably able to rely on 
information supplied  by a customer as well as its own checks. And Ive seen no evidence 
that Miss D informed Creation of the change in her employment situation or that her rent was 
higher than stated  in her application.  
I believe Creation  carried  out adequate checks and based on those and information  provided 
by Miss D the decision to lend to her was not irresponsible. Nor did Creation have grounds 
to believe it was unaffordable based  on the information it had and which  it was reasonable to 
rely on.
So whilst I know it will disappoint Miss D Im not going to uphold this complaint. And I shant 
be asking Creation to write off the outstanding  balance or remove any default. But if Miss D 
wishes to contact Creation with a view to making affordable  arrangements for the repayment 
of this loan Id expect it to treat her fairly  and with due consideration and forbearance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4053275