K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) accepted  liability  
and settled a claim  against  her insurance policy when it shouldnt  have. 
background
Miss D was involved in an incident  in a car park, when she was reversing out of a space. 
She says that the driver of the other car was passing behind  her, and she was stationary, but 
the other driver said she bumped into them. 
Miss D reported the incident the following day to LV, she told it that there was no damage to 
her car and that she couldnt see any damage on the other car either. She said she was 
unsure if there was contact at all, but if there had been, she didnt feel she was at fault.
The other driver did later submit a claim, which LV settled. The claim was recorded as a fault 
claim. LV didnt  notify Miss D this had happened, and she was only made aware when her 
policy was due to renew  some nine or so months  later.
Miss D complained to LV about this, she felt it shouldnt have settled the claim without 
further investigation, she said she had a witness and gave LV the details. LV looked  into 
matters and completed a retrospective investigation. It instructed an investigation company 
to take a statement from the witness  and referred  the details of the claim to solicitors  for a 
legal opinion. 
The investigation company tried to contact the witness by phone,  post and by visiting  his 
home address, but the witness wasnt willing to co-operate, so LV wasnt  able to pursue that 
line of investigation  any further.
The solicitors said it would be difficult to give full advice  without the benefit of full and 
detailed statements from all parties,  so was inconclusive.
LV has said it looks at who has the higher  duty of care in an incident. It says the onus is 
mainly on the part of the reversing party unless there is CCTV or witnesses to show 
something different.  Because  Miss D was the reversing  party  in this case  it felt its decision to 
accept liability and settled  the claim was correct.  It did however accept that it shouldve 
carried out the investigation at the beginning of the claim and shouldve kept Miss D 
informed, to recognise this it sent Miss D a cheque  for £150.  Miss D remained unhappy with 
this and brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator that looked into Miss Ds complaint didnt uphold  it, in summary they said:
They didnt think LV had acted unfairly in settling the claim
They did agree LV shouldve kept Miss D informed  but thought the £150 it had 
offered for this was fair.
Miss D was unhappy with this outcome,  so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Miss D has told us that she would like to know all the information  pertaining  to timescales  
and costs of the claim and she also would like to know who the other driver was insured by. 
She has asked what if any affect the other  drivers occupation had on the claim.
Ref: DRN43251932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Miss D that I think  the investigator  has reached a fair outcome here, Ill explain.
Its not my role here to decide liability for the claim,  but to make sure that LV has acted fairly 
when doing so.
Miss Ds policy  like all others I have  seen on the market, contains the following in the terms 
and conditions under  the heading Accident and claims procedure:
Were entitled to:
 have total control to conduct,  defend and settle  any claim; and
 
This means  that LV can settle a claim under the policy however they choose, even if the 
decision is based on cost alone. I do expect LV to look into things and consider if it is likely 
to be able to defend a claim before settling it.
Its not in dispute  that LV settled in this case before any real investigation  was carried  out, but 
the decision was based on its knowledge  and experience in claims. It did retrospectively  
carry out an investigation but still considered that this claim wouldnt  be one it could defend  
in court  due to lack of evidence. This may have been different if the witness Miss D had 
provided had been  willing to co-operate, but that was beyond LVs control  and there is 
nothing to suggest the witness  wouldve been  more co-operative if contacted sooner. So, 
based on this I dont think the liability outcome on the claim is unfair. 
I would however like to point out to Miss D that LV settled the claim on a without prejudice 
basis  this means she would be free to take it to court  if she chose to  but before doing  this 
I would strongly suggest she take legal advice.
Id also like to reassure  Miss D that I havent seen anything in the file to suggest that the 
other drivers  occupation  had any influence in the settlement of the claim, in fact I didnt see 
it mentioned in the file at all. I also didnt  see anything to suggest  that the claim costs  were 
unreasonable or exaggerated in any way.
LV has accepted it couldve  done better here and that it shouldve kept Miss D updated. I 
think the £150 it awarded for this is in line with what Id expect and so I wont  be asking  it to 
anything more. I understand  Miss D hasnt yet cashed this cheque   so if thats  the case and 
it has expired LV should reissue the payment to her. I know  Miss D will be disappointed  with 
this outcome. But my decision ends  what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with LV can do 
for her.
Ref: DRN43251933my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4325193