K820x#14complaint
Mr C, through his claims management company  (CMC), has complained about the advice he 
received from a business which was an appointed  representative of Openwork Limited 
regarding taking a pension annuity.
background
In April 2009  Mr C met with an adviser  to review his financial  circumstances.  Mr C was 58 
years old at the time of the meeting and he was self-employed. The fact find completed at 
the time of the sale records he needed to buy a van but didnt have enough cash  to do so. At 
that point in time Mr C has two personal  pensions with two different companies which 
provided him with a combined value of around  £43,000.
He was recommended to take a with profits annuity  provided by business A and to take the 
maximum tax free cash of 25% of the combined  fund which  amounted to just over £10,000. 
The balance provided an income of just under £1,500 per year.
Mr C has said that when arranging the annuity  he wasnt  given the appropriate information to 
help him decide  the best type of annuity for him. Hes also said the benefits  of an enhanced  
or impaired  annuity  were  not discussed  and this could have been relevant given he was 
suffering from epilepsy and a bad back at the time of the sale.  Hes also complained that the 
benefits of considering an income  drawdown  arrangement were not discussed.
Openwork investigated  the matter and felt that a full analysis of Mr Cs circumstances  had 
taken place when  Mr C met with the adviser. It said Mr C had a specific need for access  to 
his pension fund and he had no other way of releasing his money. It also said that health 
concerns were considered and when he was asked whether he suffered from a list of certain  
illnesses Mr C answered no.
When challenged that epilepsy wasnt on that list in the fact find, Openwork accepted  this but 
it explained that the annuity provider wouldnt have offered an enhanced annuity for either of 
Mr Cs health conditions.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She felt that the adviser asked clear  questions about Mr Cs health conditions  in 
respect of the impaired life or enhanced annuity  and that Mr C wouldve been  made  aware of 
the possibility  of an enhanced annuity resulting  from poor health at this stage. She also felt 
the adviser presented the open market option  in the document entitled  Annuity  
Recommendation Summary.
I issued my provisional findings in February  2019  where I set out my reasons why I thought  
the complaint  couldnt be upheld but why the reasons were different to that presented by the 
investigator. An extract is below and forms part of this decision:
The first point  to make is that Mr C was sold the annuity in 2009 by a business that wasnt a 
whole of market adviser. This meant the adviser  could only advise on and recommend 
products from certain businesses rather than from every business across  the market.  And in 
this particular situation Openwork at the point in question could only recommend annuity 
products from two businesses, one of which was the business that provided Mr Cs annuity, 
business A.
Ref: DRN49465172Given this was the situation,  in making  my decision I have to consider in light of the 
restrictions of Openworks  advice,  whether the adviser ensured Mr C was aware of those 
restrictions and, in light of those restrictions, did the adviser ask clear  enough  questions  to 
get all the required  information from Mr C to advise him in the best way. Furthermore, given 
one of Mr Cs complaint  points is that he didnt disclose some  medical  issues I have also 
thought about whether the adviser  did enough  to ensure Mr C knew  that he could benefit if 
he disclosed  these conditions.
Looking at the paperwork provided to Mr C at the time I am satisfied the adviser made it 
clear that there were  restrictions with regards to the businesses he could recommend the 
annuity from. A letter  sent to Mr C dated 15 June 2009 stated that the adviser  had spoken  
about which companies he could recommend products from and had provided  Mr C with a 
Keyfacts document about his service and Keyfacts document about the cost of his services  
which covered these areas in detail. The letter also explained the adviser  was a member of 
Openwork and that this business is a network of financial advisers.
Having looked  at this Keyfacts document I can see it explained that for investment (pension) 
products Openwork could only offer products  from a limited number of companies and it 
prompted the reader to ask it for a list of the companies whose products it offered.
So given this information, while the Openwork adviser only gave very limited information to 
the annuity provider I am satisfied the reason  for this was because the adviser was restricted 
as to which  businesses he could offer products from. I think he made Mr C aware of these 
restrictions so I dont  think the adviser  failed to give sufficient information as he was required 
to do. Nor do I think the adviser did anything wrong or that he had to provide Mr C with any 
more information  than he did.
Turning now to the question of the enhanced  annuity, this is partly  related to the points I
have made  above.  Because  Openwork wasnt an open market provider and could only 
recommend pension products from two businesses its reasonable that the adviser had the 
criteria for enhanced  annuities by these providers in his mind when looking at Mr Cs health 
and lifestyle issues. So its not unreasonable that epilepsy and a back  problem wasnt 
included in the list of medical conditions identified in the fact find.
Looking at the fact find I am satisfied that Mr C was asked health questions. I appreciate that 
epilepsy wasnt included in the list of medical conditions (because  it wouldnt have attracted 
an enhancement from the providers Openwork used) but Mr C was also asked  whether  he 
had any other serious health conditions and to this he answered  no. I think the questions 
were clear  so Mr C should have at that point  in time answered yes if he wanted to declare
his epilepsy and back problem. As he answered no there was no need to complete the 
enhanced annuity questionnaire  as directed in the fact find.
In our experience its unlikely any annuity  provider would underwrite  a bad back in terms of 
reduced life expectancy. But a lot of people would consider epilepsy to be a serious  health  
condition and Mr C wouldnt have had anything  to lose by raising this when the adviser
asked about if he had any serious conditions.  The adviser might  then have checked whether 
the two annuity providers  Openwork used  would have considered this, to which  the answer 
would have been no. Mr C had already chosen  to use an adviser that didnt cover the whole 
of the market, so I dont  think it likely he would then have done anything  different.
Ref: DRN49465173I am also satisfied that the adviser  did make  Mr C aware of the fact he could potentially get a 
higher rate from another  provider. In the suitability letter  dated  above the adviser  did specify 
in the alternatives  section  that another company may provide the same type of annuity  with a 
higher income  and offered  to refer Mr C to an independent adviser who could look at this 
open market option for him. As Mr C didnt take the adviser up on this offer it would appear
to me that he was satisfied with the advice he had received and wanted to continue  with the 
plan as set out by the Openwork adviser.
I know Mr C has also said that an income drawdown  arrangement wasnt considered.  But 
looking at the fact find that Mr C was taken through at the meeting it seems the sales  
process didnt allow  for a drawdown arrangement if the fund was lower than £100,000. So 
given Mr Cs fund was worth around  £43,000 at that time he wouldnt have qualified  for a 
drawdown arrangement  with the annuity providers the adviser was restricted to. And, as 
I have already said, its not unreasonable the adviser was restricted  to these providers 
because I think this was made clear  to Mr C.
Its also worth noting that a drawdown  arrangement can be relatively expensive if the fund 
size is small so its likely the adviser  also thought  this wouldnt be the most suitable way of 
allowing Mr C access to his pension.
Overall therefore, in light of what I said above I currently think  Mr C was given all the 
relevant information  in 2009 to help him decide  on the best type of annuity  for him. 
I appreciate the adviser was restricted to two annuity providers but I am satisfied  Mr C was 
made aware  of this and so the information the adviser did provide was in line with his 
responsibilities in his position  at the time.
Openwork accepted the findings  in the provisional decision and provided no comments.
The CMC on Mr Cs behalf didnt  accept the findings  and provided  the following comments:
It wants the view reconsidered and for me to specify what  additional evidence I want  
Mr C to provide.
Mr Cs medical  conditions  could  have entitled him to an enhanced annuity.
Because of Mr Cs unfamiliarity with financial  matters the suggestion in respect of 
whole of market  advisers  in unrealistic and clutching a straws.
There is no evidence that Mr C understood the difference between a tied adviser or 
an independent or a restricted  adviser. And Mr C didnt  have the wherewithal to seek 
further clarification.
The provisional decision is reliant  on a technical  reference buried deep in a plethora 
of technical disclosure that the average person  wouldnt comprehend.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional findings.
I will address the CMCs points in turn.
The CMC should  be aware that my provisional  findings were not a view. A view is usually 
the first assessment to a case carried out by an investigator. My provisional  findings  are my 
Ref: DRN49465174preliminary thoughts  before I make my final decision. My provisional findings  were that 
I agreed with the investigator that the complaint couldnt be upheld but this was for different 
reasons which  is why a final decision has not been  issued straight away.  
The provisional decision provides the opportunity  for me to present my thoughts  and for both 
parties to refute my findings in a convincing way. It also provides a further opportunity for 
both parties to provide further evidence  to support its positions if either party  sees fit. So for 
the CMC  to ask me about what additional evidence I would want  to see is inappropriate. If 
any evidence were  to be submitted  this should have  happened by the deadline set out in the 
provisional decision. It isnt for me to direct one of the parties as to what evidence is 
necessary and Mr C and his CMC  have had ample opportunity to do this given the initial  
view was a non-uphold.
The CMC is correct that Mr Cs conditions may have entitled him to an enhanced annuity. 
However, as explained  in my provisional  findings,  the providers which the adviser could only 
provide recommendations for wouldnt  have  provided an enhanced annuity for these  specific 
medical conditions.  And I havent been  provided  with anything persuasive  that leads me to 
depart from what I said in my provisional  decision that I think the adviser  made it clear to 
Mr C that he was limited in regard to which  providers  he could recommend.
The remaining  points raised by the CMC  I believe are all similar. Mr C may have been  
unfamiliar with financial matters and may not have had the wherewithal to seek 
clarification, although I suspect the CMC may be doing Mr C a disservice. However, if this 
was the case  this doesnt mean that it validly allows  Mr C to abdicate the responsibility he 
personally had to ensure he understood all that was being explained.  In any financial advice 
transaction the customer has an element  of responsibility too and this cant be ignored.
All the adviser  could do was make it clear what he could advise on, which  I have already 
explained in my provisional findings  he did, and then provide the accurate advice around 
that, which again I have explained I think he did.
If Mr C didnt understand something  it was for him to raise that question.  The adviser and 
Openwork cannot  be held responsible  for something Mr C may not have understood but 
didnt clarify  and its unreasonable to expect  the adviser to know  Mr C had concerns or didnt 
understand something if Mr C didnt  raise this.
Despite what the CMC has said, it hasnt provided anything  substantial to persuade me to 
change my provisional findings.  As already set out, I think the adviser from Openwork did all 
he had to in this specific situation  in relation  to the advice and information he gave Mr C. It 
cant be held responsible if Mr C didnt seek clarification if he needed to. 
So overall I dont  think Openwork  has done  anything wrong.
Ref: DRN49465175my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4946517