K821x#15complaint
Mr G says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL),  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four short term loans PDL provided to Mr G between 
January 2017  and April 2018.  Loans 1 to 3 were repayable by three monthly instalments and 
Loan 4 was repayable by six monthly  instalments.  Mr Gs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 12/1/17 18/4/17 £300 Around £203
2. 14/7/17 25/10/17 £300 Around £188
3. 3/11/17 26/3/18 £400 Around £192
4. 2/4/18 Outstanding £700 Around £253
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint in part and said Loans  3 and 4 shouldnt  have  been  
given. She said that by Loan 3 Mr Gs overall pattern of borrowing suggested  that he had 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
PDL disagreed. It referred  to other decisions of this service in which the ombudsman  said 
that a consumer taking out three  loans  couldnt  be considered to be reliant on short  term 
loans. PDL also said that its credit reports didnt  show outstanding short term loans. This 
showed that Mr G wasnt  persistently  reliant on short term loans. It said that the highest loan 
repayment of £253.16  was less than 13% of Mr Gs net monthly income. It had also carried 
out an expenditure assessment prior to each  loan to ensure repayments were  affordable.  
Even after Mr Gs highest  repayment  he would be left with a disposable income of £514.84 
for unforeseen expenses.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to PDL on 17 December 2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that PDL had referred  to other  decisions made by this service. But I said that we 
assessed each  case on its own merits. And it wasnt always  appropriate to compare  the 
outcomes of complaints without a detailed  understanding of the specific  facts  of each 
complaint.
Id noted that when  PDL lent to Mr G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN40334452But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that PDL was required to establish  whether Mr G could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Gs complaint.
Regarding Loans 1 and 2, I could see that the repayments that Mr G needed to make were  
relatively modest compared  to the income  that hed declared to PDL.  The highest 
repayments for the loans were £203.20 and £188.20 respectively. I didnt think  the 
repayment amounts  were  so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr G difficulty.
So given Mr Gs repayment  amounts for Loans 1 and 2, what  was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, and that these  were his first two loans  with the lender, I didnt 
think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have  asked  him for the amount of information 
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Mr G provided  or the information  
PDL shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I didnt think PDL was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr G.
Ref: DRN40334453Id noted that Loan 2 was paid on the due date and Mr G borrowed Loan 3 nine days  later.  
The loan amount had increased  to £400  although the highest monthly loan repayment was 
only slightly higher  than the highest loan repayment for Loan  2 and slightly  lower  than the 
highest loan repayment on Loan 1. Id noted that the adjudicator  had said that Mr Gs overall 
pattern of borrowing suggested  that he had become persistently reliant  on short  term loans 
by the time of Loan 3. But I disagreed with the adjudicator. I could see there  was around a 
three month gap between  Loans 1 and 2. So by the time of Loan 3 there didnt seem an 
obvious pattern  of dependency.  
Again I could see that the repayments that Mr G needed to make on Loan 3 were relatively 
modest compared to the income that hed declared  to PDL. The highest repayment  was 
£192.13. Again I didnt  think the repayment amounts  were  so large that its obvious  they 
wouldve caused Mr G financial difficulty.
So given Mr Gs repayment  amounts and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have asked him for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Mr G provided  or the information  
PDL shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I didnt think PDL was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mr G.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of PDLs  lending history with Mr G, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  PDL should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, Id thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 4. Id said this because:
Mr G deferred the final repayment  on Loan 3 twice and the loan wasnt  repaid until 
two months after the due date. I thought this might have  caused  PDL some concerns. 
Mr G took out Loan 4 just a week after repaying Loan 3. The loan amount had       
increased substantially  to £700  and the loan was to be repaid over six months with a 
highest instalment  of £253.16. So Mr G was committing to making his repayments 
over a far longer period than his previous loans. I thought  all this should  have 
suggested to PDL that Mr G was having  problems  managing his money. 
By Loan  4, Mr G had been borrowing from PDL for almost 15 months. 
Mr G wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed PDL. Loan 4 was over 
double the amount  of Loan 1. And Mr G had paid large  amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to PDL over an extended  period.
There were some  small gaps  between loans being repaid and a new loan being 
granted including the gap of around three  months between Loans 1 and 2. But, 
overall I didnt  think it would have been reasonable for PDL to have concluded these 
gaps were any indication that Mr Gs finances had moved  on from whatever situation 
had required  his previous loans.
I thought that Mr G had lost out because these  loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging 
Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-term  use 
over an extended period  of time. And the length of time that Mr G had been taking out short  
term loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Gs ability to access  
mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN40334454Id considered the main points PDL had made  in response to the adjudicators  view.  
Id noted that PDL had said that Mr G didnt use more than 13% of his income  for any of his 
contractual repayments and that the loans should have been affordable. But I thought PDL 
knew or ought to have  known from previous decisions (as well as what was set out on our 
website) that there were cases where  this service considered the overall  lending  pattern and 
not just the affordability of each loan.  And there would  be times when the pattern of lending  
alone was enough to indicate that a consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty   or 
would otherwise be harmed should  relending  continue. 
Id also thought that when  a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, 
it was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As PDL knew, the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of 
high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of 
unsustainable lending  patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr G or PDL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  PDL to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what PDL needs  to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on Loan 4 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 and 
pay any balance to Mr G; 
Remove all entries about Loan 4 from Mr Gs credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If PDL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
PDL responded to say that it had no further information to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr G has accepted my provisional decision and that both Mr G and PDL have 
given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
Ref: DRN40334455reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part of the complaint and require 
PDL to pay Mr G some  compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on Loan 4 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
3.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 
and pay any balance  to Mr G; and
4.Remove all entries about Loan 4 from Mr Gs credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If PDL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4033445