K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC has applied excessive charges to her credit card even 
though her account has a credit balance. To settle matters shed like a refund of the charges 
applied.
background
Ms S explained to us that Lloyds has applied excessive financial charges when she uses  her 
credit card even though  her credit card is always in credit, often  by large amounts. She 
thinks this is unfair. She says she was promised a full refund, but this hasnt happened.
When Ms S complained to Lloyds, it agreed  there  had been a delay in responding to her and 
it also agreed that shed  received poor customer service so it offered £75 for this. However, 
with regard to the charges applied to her account it explained that these were  non-sterling 
transaction fees and cash fees and these fees were  correctly  applied in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of her account.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator  
didnt think Ms Ss complaint should be upheld.  The charges applied  by Lloyds were non-
sterling transaction fees and international cash withdrawal fees and these services are 
provided by Lloyds for a fee which is set out in the terms  and conditions  of Ms Ss account 
and which  are payable  even though her account  is in credit.
Ms S disagrees with the investigators view and shes asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. She says the charges are excessive because her account is in credit and it 
hasnt been used as a credit card. She says Lloyds has already admitted that shes  
been charged excessively and agreed  to refund all charges some  time ago.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Ms Ss credit card statements and I can see that most  of the charges Lloyds 
applied to her account  are for non-sterling transactions when she uses  her credit card to 
make a non-sterling  transaction and for international cash  withdrawal fees when she uses 
her credit card to make  a non-sterling cash withdrawal.
I appreciate that Ms S thinks the charges are excessive but what  I need to think about here 
is whether they were  correctly applied by Lloyds  in accordance with the terms and conditions  
of her account.
I appreciate that Ms S usually maintains  a credit balance on her account  but I cant  say it 
was wrong of Lloyds  to apply the charges it did. By allowing her to use her card for non-
sterling international transactions and international cash withdrawals  Lloyds is providing  a 
service for which it is entitled  to make a charge as set out in the terms and conditions of her 
account.
These charges  will be applied even where the credit  card account  is in credit.
The terms and conditions  of her account allow Lloyds to charge a non-sterling transaction  
fee of 2.95%  on the sterling value of a transaction  and they also allow it to charge non-
Ref: DRN40374292sterling international cash withdrawals at 3.00% or a minimum of £3.00. These charges are 
clearly stated in the terms and conditions and they are also detailed  on Ms Ss monthly credit 
card statements.  I think  Lloyds  did enough to make her aware of the applicable charges. And 
its difficult for me to say she wasnt aware  of the applicable charges - particularly as she 
used her card for many non-sterling transactions and non-sterling cash  withdrawals.
I appreciate that Ms S considers these charges to be excessive but as the charges were 
applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of her account  I cant say it was wrong 
of Lloyds to apply the charges.
Ms S says Lloyds has admitted she was charged excessively and it agreed to refund her. 
Whilst I dont have  any reason to doubt Ms S, Id expect to see some record of this on 
Lloyds customer notes  if this were the case.  However, Ive looked at Lloyds customer notes  
and theres nothing to suggest it admitted to a mistake on its part or that it agreed to refund 
the charges. It follows that I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4037429