K821x#15Complaint
Miss A complains  that the finance  agreement set up when she acquired  a car from a dealer  
was mis-sold. The dealer  was part of the Sytner Group Ltd and acted as a credit broker. 
Background
Miss A entered a hire purchase agreement with a finance provider in 2014 to acquire a car. 
She has explained that she asked for the agreement to have an annual  mileage limit of 
10,000 miles as would be doing  a lot of travelling  with her job. She says the documents  were 
agreed over the telephone and the car then delivered. Around  a year later Miss A checked 
her agreement and found  the annual mileage limit was 8,000 miles.  She contacted the 
dealer and says she was told the mileage limit couldnt be changed but the mileage charge 
wasnt usually enforced.
Miss A then discussed  part exchanging  her car in 2017 and was told that there  would be an 
excess mileage charge. Miss A voluntary terminated the agreement in 2017  and was 
charged for excess mileage. She took out a new agreement and says she was told the cost 
was around £4 per month more for an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 miles compared 
to 8,000 miles.
Sytner issued  a final response in November 2017  not upholding Miss As complaint. It said 
there were no call recordings from the time and that the documents were  signed with the 
annual mileage of 8,000 miles and an explanation of the excess mileage charge. 
Miss A didnt accept  Sytners  response  and referred her complaint  to our service.  She 
wanted the excess mileage charge to be written  off or to be negotiated.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said it was reasonable to expect a consumer to 
read the finance agreement before they committing to it, but it wouldnt be fair to consider 
only the paperwork. On balance, she was persuaded by Miss As testimony  that she had 
asked for an annual limit of 10,000  miles. She thought it likely that had Miss A been aware 
the agreement  was limited to 8,000  annual miles, she wouldnt have gone ahead and instead 
would have paid more for a 10,000 miles mileage allowance.  Because of this our investigator 
recommended that Sytner refund the excess mileage charge that Miss A paid up to the 
10,000 annual mile point, pro rata for the time the agreement was running.  She didnt 
recommend a separate payment for any distress and inconvenience as she noted it was 
likely that a higher  monthly payment on the finance  agreement would have been payable  on 
an agreement with 10,000 miles annual allowance.
Sytner didnt accept our investigators view. It said there was no evidence that Miss a had 
requested an annual mileage allowance of 10,000  miles and noted that she ordered the car 
on 14 October 2014 and completed the transaction on 23 October. It also said that when 
Miss A raised her complaint it was about the finance company changing its policy  about 
enforcing excess mileage charges when an agreement  was voluntarily terminated.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its individual merits. I take in to account  relevant rules and regulations, but my decision is 
Ref: DRN41472432based on what I consider  fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered this complaint, I agree with the conclusions  reached by our investigator  
for the following reasons:
Miss As testimony has been  consistent  throughout her complaint and while I note 
she signed an agreement  with an annual mileage allowance  of 8,000 miles, I think it 
fair to consider  all aspects  of evidence including verbal testimony.  In this case, 
Miss A has explained why she asked for a 10,000  mile annual  allowance and on 
balance, I think it more  likely  than not that she thought this would be part of her 
agreement.
Based  on the information provided, I find it more  likely than not that had Miss A been 
aware that her agreement had an 8,000 mile annual limit she would  not have 
accepted this. Instead I think she would have required the annual mileage allowance  
to be increased to 10,000 miles even if this increased the monthly repayment 
amounts. 
Miss A has also said that when  she became  aware  of the lower mileage limit and 
contacted the dealer she was told the charge would likely not be applied. I note this 
comment and the comments  about the finance provider changing its approach  
regarding applying  excess mileage  charges.  However, this complaint is against  
Sytner as a credit broker and I do not find I have evidence to say that Miss A was told 
when entering  the finance agreement that the excess  mileage  charge would likely  not 
be applied. Therefore, I havent considered  this aspect of the complaint further.
On balance, I think that a mistake  was made  with the mileage allowance  and that it is 
fair that Miss A is compensated to reflect  the difference between the 8,000 mile and 
10,000 mile annual allowance.
This issue  has caused Miss A distress and inconvenience. However, I also accept 
that had a 10,000 mile allowance been  included  in the agreement,  Miss A would 
likely have needed to pay higher monthly  repayments. I note the comment Miss A 
has made about the difference  in price, but I do not find I can now say what impact 
on the repayments including a higher mileage allowance would have  had at the time.  
Therefore, I think it fair in this case that no further payment is made for the upset 
caused and that the refund of the excess mileage charge between  8,000 and 10,000  
miles pro rata for the term of the agreement is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sytner Group  Ltd should:
refund  Miss A the excess  mileage  charge  made by the finance provider between  the 
8,000 and 10,000  annual mile point along  with interest of 8% simple a year from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement*; and
Ref: DRN41472433ensure any adverse  information relating to this charge is removed from Miss As 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sytner  Group  Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Sytner 
Group Ltd must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4147243