K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society gave them incorrect information  
about the impact  of them taking a Help to Buy equity loan alongside their mortgage.
background 
Mr and Mrs S had an existing mortgage with Nationwide.  They  wanted to move home and 
they borrowed more  money. They also took the equity loan. They say that they were wrongly 
told that having this equity  loan would not affect the interest  rate they would pay on the new 
borrowing from Nationwide. Mr and Mrs S say that had access at that time to a gifted deposit 
and could have  saved interest  of over £1,500. This incorrect  information  was repeated to 
them when they called  Nationwide after the mortgage had been drawn.
The adjudicator recommended that their complaint be upheld  in part and they be paid £50 in 
compensation. She said that:
-Shed  reviewed the contact Mr and Mrs S had with Nationwide after October 2017.
-In calls in October  and December 2017  the main  concern for Mr and Mrs S was 
whether theyd be able to borrow enough to buy the new property. Theyd been told 
in December 2017 that even with the equity  loan they would not have been  able to 
afford the property  they wanted.  
-They were directed by a member of staff to the Nationwide  website. The relevant 
web page showed that interest  rates are higher with an equity loan.
-The mortgage advisor who met with them in January 2018 had no recollection  of a 
gifted deposit  being mentioned.
-There was no mention of this in any of the pre or post sale paperwork. At the meeting 
in January 2018, even after reducing  some  commitments they were still told they 
could not borrow  the amount they wanted. She thought that if family members  were 
prepared to gift a deposit then Mr and Mrs S would have raised  this then.
-Instead after theyd  provided evidence of a second source of income and committed 
to paying off other borrowing  a mortgage  offer of a sufficient  amount was made by 
Nationwide in February 2018.
-Mr and Mrs S had also complained  about  other  aspects of their mortgage but had not 
raised the issue with the interest rate then.  But in September  2018 they raised  a 
complaint about the information  theyd  been  given. This followed them  asking a 
number of questions  in calls about  loan to value (LTV) ranges and the impact  on the 
interest rates available.
-In a particular  call on 4 September 2018  they asked whether having an equity loan 
would affect the LTV calculation or the APR on the loan. The person they spoke to 
concentrated on the LTV and said it would not affect this. 
-More detail could  have been  given  about  the impact  on the APRC (annual 
percentage rate of charge). This was calculated to include charges and the interest 
rates over the term of the mortgage and would be heavily affected by the assumed 
interest rate over the 30 year remaining term of the mortgage after the fixed  interest 
rate product ended.  And so it wasnt the same as the initial interest  rate offered.
-Theyd been told that the APRC wouldnt alter either and Nationwide had offered £50 
for this. She thought  that it could have explained this better  to them.
-There was insufficient evidence though to find that their mortgage advisor had given 
them incorrect information about  this before they took the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree. They said that theyd accept a compromise  of half of their loss 
or even  £300  to settle the complaint. They  still think they should be due the full amount. 
Ref: DRN47735102There was no protection  for them being given incorrect information.  If theyd  known about  
the impact of the equity loan upfront - and that it would not affect future  product  switches  - 
they might  also not have  taken the additional  mortgage with a product interest  rate fixed  for 
five years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at what Mr and Mrs S said on their complaint form. They  said that the 
total borrowing  with Nationwide  was going  to be £243,000 with a deposit from the sale of 
their property of £46,600. Leading up the appointment  with the advisor with Nationwide  the 
plan was to take an equity  loan of £72,400. But the night before that meeting a relative 
offered to gift to them that amount from the family  business. They  were  reluctant to take this 
but they asked  the advisor the question whether this would make  a difference  to the APR. 
They say that the response  of the advisor  at the start of the meeting was a confident  no. 
They would have  otherwise taken the gifted deposit. It is no longer available  to them  now.  
They know  that what they were told was not correct and taking an equity loan meant that 
they paid an initial fixed interest of 2.44%  on the new borrowing rather than 2.14% if they 
hadnt. This error by Nationwide was also repeated during the call on 4 September  2018 
when it was again confirmed that the APR would  not be affected.
Ive gone into some detail around this as I think it sets the background to the meeting with 
the advisor on 24 January 2018. Mr and Mrs S had previously been told that they would not 
be able to borrow the amount they wanted based  on the information they provided. And this 
borrowing was not confirmed until further  information had been  supplied to the underwriters 
and the application progressed on 9 February  2018.  So I dont see they had a simple choice 
about whether  to take the equity loan or not at the time of the meeting. After  that they had to 
demonstrate further income so that the borrowing available  could be increased. I think that 
the existence of a substantial additional gifted deposit was highly material  to their ability  to 
buy the property  at all at that time.  There is no record of this and the mortgage advisor who 
has made a statement does not recall  this being  discussed.
As the adjudicator has set out the APRC  is a complex calculation  and is heavily weighted to 
rates after the initial  product rate. Ive listened  to the call of 4 September  2018. Mr S had 
given the person he spoke to a hypothetical  example of their circumstance and had not 
explained that he was talking about  a mortgage that they already had. If he had done so I 
think it more likely that the person he spoke to might  have better  understood what  he wanted  
by then to know.  Even accepting that I think a better explanation could have  been  given as 
the focus of the answer to him was only about whether the LTV calculation  was affected by 
an equity loan. But I dont  think I can use this call as evidence  to say that this made it more 
likely that the mortgage  advisor  made  a mistake in the meeting when discussing their 
specific circumstances in detail.
My assessment is based on the evidence that is available. And Im afraid that I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence for me to find that the Nationwide advisor made a mistake and 
that this caused  Mr and Mrs S a financial loss. I think its offer now to pay £50 for the 
information Nationwide gave in a later call after the mortgage was taken is reasonable.
Ref: DRN47735103my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr and Mrs S £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4773510