K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complained to Suffolk Life Pension Limited after it switched her self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) to a different product. She says it did this without her permission. 
Mrs P and her husband both hold SIPPs and have made the same  complaint. But because  
they hold individual plans, the complaints  are being  dealt with separately.  
background
In March 2016, on the advice of a financial adviser   from here on referred to as Firm D - 
Mrs P started a Suffolk Life SimSIPP. However  in June  2016, this was switched  to a 
SmartSIPP. Although  the underlying product is the same, these SIPPS have different 
investment options.  
Mrs P didnt notice the switch at the time but in early 2019,  it came to her attention.  Mrs P 
contacted Firm D but was unable to get confirmation in writing  as to why the switch had 
happened so she complained to Suffolk Life. 
Mrs P said she was unhappy because Suffolk Lifes agent hadnt given any explanation as to 
why the product switch needed  to happen.  And to date, shed not received any advice 
regarding investments. So her funds were sitting in cash but Suffolk  Life had continued to 
take its fees. Mrs P said shes  like a refund of the fees taken, including those incurred as a 
result of the product switch. 
Suffolk Life reviewed the complaint but it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  It explained 
that the switch  was completed after it received a product conversion form from Firm D, 
signed by Mrs P. At this point the new fee structure  came into effect and a letter was issued 
to Mrs P to confirm the switch. This letter also explained that she had 30 days  to change her 
mind. 
Although the products are similar,  Suffolk  Life acknowledged that there was potential for the 
fees to be higher on the SmartSIPP.  But as Suffolk  Life had carried out the instructions 
received from Mrs Ps authorised adviser, it didnt agree that it had deducted fees when it 
shouldnt have done. It also explained that Mrs P could switch  the SIPP back if she wished. 
Mrs P didnt accept what Suffolk Life said so she referred her complaint to this service for 
review. In summary she said that Suffolk  Life should take responsibility for the actions of 
Firm D as she believed  it was acting as its agent  when  the SIPP was switched and shes  not 
been given any explanation as to why this happened. 
One of our investigators  reviewed matters but he didnt think Suffolk  Life had done anything 
wrong. In summary  he didnt agree  that Firm D was acting as Suffolk  Lifes agent. And he 
didnt think could be held responsible for the actions of the independent financial adviser. So 
he felt that any complaint  Mrs P had about the SIPP switch would be best dealt with by 
Firm D.  
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators finding  so the matter  had been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.  
Ref: DRN44647582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
Mrs P believes that Suffolk  Life is responsible for the actions of Firm P. But thats  not the 
case. There are different  types of advisers,  some of which are working for the company 
whose products they sell. But in this case, Firm P was acting as an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) so was essentially acting for Mrs P. As an IFA, Firm P isnt tied to any 
particular firm and could  sell products from the entire market, not just those offered by 
Suffolk Life. 
In this case, when  Suffolk Lifes products are sold by an IFA, all Suffolk Life has to do is 
administer the policy in line with the instructions  provided.  
Ive considered the SimSIPP  application form that was completed when Mrs P first took out 
the SIPP in March 2016. This confirms that Firm P is the adviser and a box has also been  
ticked to confirm that the money transferred is to be held in the SIPP bank account to await 
further instruction.  This application form was signed  by Mrs P. 
From the information I have on file, it appears that Suffolk Life correctly set the SimSIPP  up, 
as per Firm Ps instructions. However, I note that Firm P subsequently emailed Suffolk Life 
to say that the application should  have  been  for the SmartSIPP, not the SimSIPP.  Firm P 
then submitted the product conversation form  signed by Mrs P - and Suffolk Life duly set 
the SmartSIPP up as per the instructions received. 
Given that the initial application  form confirmed  that Firm P was the financial adviser,  I dont 
think Suffolk Life did anything wrong  by accepting this instruction.  And it also wrote to Mrs P 
to let her know what had happened  and it gave her the opportunity to change her mind. I 
appreciate that Mrs P may have  had a lot going on at that time and that she didnt process 
what was happening with her SIPP until sometime later. But I cant hold Suffolk Life 
responsible for this. 
I appreciate that Mrs P is unhappy that she has been charged fees even though  her funds 
have been sitting  in her cash account. However, I cant  see that Suffolk  Life has taken any 
fees that it wasnt entitled to take.  So Im not asking it to refund any of the fees taken. And as 
explained above, Suffolk Life was following Firm Ps instructions  by holding the funds in cash 
until further instruction  was received.  
To conclude,  Im not upholding the complaint against Suffolk Life as its not responsible for 
the actions of Firm P. Should Mrs P remain unhappy that her SIPP was switched and that 
her money hasnt been invested, these concerns should be referred to Firm P for 
consideration. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Ref: DRN44647583Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4464758