K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Zurich  Insurance PLC in respect of it not offering to settle  for 
some damage which he feels is related to previous water leak claims he made.
background
Mr Ms flat suffered  some  leaks  in 2014  and 2015  from the flat above. Zurich accepted 
that water  damage had been caused  and acted to assess  Mr Ms claim. Since then Mr M 
made various complaints to Zurich  which  it answered in final response letters, and he 
also complained  to this service. Following that activity, in January 2018, Zurich agreed to 
send a further inspector out to assess the damage  in Mr Ms kitchen.
The inspector focused his review  on items  Mr M said were  damaged  by the leaks which  
Zurich didnt agree was the case. The items in question were a dishwasher,  extractor,  
worktop and units.
The report  concluded  none of these were  likely  damaged  by the previous water leaks. 
Zurich told Mr M it wasnt going to make any settlement  for these  items.  Mr M 
complained and Zurich said if Mr M provided proof  that the items in dispute had likely 
been damaged  by the leaks then it would reconsider settling for them, along with 
considering the cost incurred by Mr M of obtaining  any report. But Zurich  accepted  it had 
caused some delays since January 2018  when it had resumed its claim activities. It said 
it would  pay Mr M £250 compensation.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator  noted that we could only look at 
matters as had occurred after January 2018.  Initially he didnt uphold  any of Mr Ms 
complaint but upon review he said as the kitchen ceiling had come  in, it was likely the 
kitchen units had been damaged by water and therefore Zurich should  consider making  
a settlement to Mr M for them.
Mr M was generally pleased by this but asked what that settlement would look like. He 
said at least 3 out of 5 units  were damaged, so surely Zurich  should just settle for 
completely replacing  all the units to ensure everything matched. He remained unhappy 
that we wouldnt  tell Zurich to agree a price for replacing the dishwasher and extractor, 
along with report  costs, if a report showed  they were  water damaged. He was also 
dissatisfied that wed said Zurichs conclusion that the worktops were unlikely to have 
been damaged  by the water leaks was reasonable.
Zurich, for its part, disputed our findings regarding the kitchen units. It said there was 
damage to the bottom part of the side of a door on a base unit, and a drawer  and this 
wasnt related to water coming down from the ceiling.  It said there was some damage  to wall 
units (it wasnt  specific which ones)  but this again  was evident on the bottom of these 
units. Zurich said it felt this was most  likely caused  by steam  or such coming up from below 
and affecting the units.
The complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a provisional decision to which the 
parties have now responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
Ref: DRN49977242reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive set out my key provisional findings and the parties responses  below.
I said provisionally  I havent considered  what happened during the original claims.  As 
I understand it any alleged failures  by Zurich in those  early stages have been subject of 
previous final responses and/or consideration by this service. Therefore, my assessment 
focuses on the activity which has occurred since January 2018 and the evidence at the 
heart of the current dispute  Zurichs expert  report dated January 2018, Mr Ms 
objections to the findings within that report and the claim outcome which resulted.
Mr M said I was wrong  he had never agreed  to a settlement or for Zurich to finalise 
anything. 
I appreciate that the matter might  be confusing for Mr M but this is not a case  of what  he 
agreed to. An insurer is bound to issue a final response to a complaint made to it, it is 
then up to the policyholder if they want to challenge  that by complaining  to this service 
within the deadline set. And Mr M has had a previous  complaint against  Zurich, 
regarding this claim, considered by this service.  I understand that Mr M would like me to 
consider the issue  in its entirety and whilst he strongly  suggests  I do so, I am not 
persuaded it is fair for me to review  everything  here  not when previous final responses 
have been issued and our service  has already considered a complaint. 
My provisional findings continued: 
dishwasher and extractor fan
Mr M says these  were damaged by water deluging down from the flat above. Zurich  says 
that whilst  the ceiling came down in the kitchen, water didnt deluge down.
The extractor is in line with the ceiling,  so I can see that it might  easily  be damaged  by a 
leak from above. Its not so easy to think the dishwasher would necessarily be damaged 
as it is situated under  a worktop which is sealed  against tiles. But neither appliance 
currently has a report showing that they were most likely damaged during the previous 
leaks. Zurich has said it will consider  any report Mr M provides and look to reimburse the 
reasonable cost of the report, if it supports Mr Ms position. I think  thats reasonable and I 
cant fairly make Zurich do more than this.
Mr M said the fact I had noted Zurichs  point  of view that there was no deluge of water 
showed bias on my part. He provided  photos  showing, he said, the deluge of water  
coming down. Mr M said that Zurich  cant show that these and other parts  of his kitchen 
werent damaged  so it must honour the claim for them. He also explained that Zurich has 
seen that the extractor doesnt  work. Mr M asked where I had got the evidence that the 
dishwasher is sealed against tiles, he says this is not the case. He also said the water 
got under  the worksurface when it cracked due to sustained soaking. Mr M said Zurich 
has consistently failed  to show these items were not damaged  by water and it is not up 
to him to prove that they were.
I have to take account of both sides of the story   recording that Zurich  has one point of 
view whilst Mr M has another  is not being  biased. Ive considered Mr Ms photos  and 
they show the middle of the ceiling  had come down, not in the area immediately above  
the extractor and the dishwasher,  and there  were some  buckets  on the floor.  I know  
Ref: DRN49977243Mr M also says that water  was running down the walls at times as well, but I havent 
seen that is the case. And even  accepting Mr Ms word on this, that still doesnt  mean  
that that water then most  likely got into the working  and electrical  parts of either 
appliance, causing it to break. It is usual practice  for worktops to be sealed  against the 
wall and whilst the wall was not tiled there  was a splashback.  The dishwasher was 
situated under the worktop and fronted by a unit door. I note from Mr Ms photos that the 
worktop and dishwasher  were not directly  under  the area of ceiling which collapsed. Im 
still not persuaded that the dishwasher  most likely  came into contact  with a lot of water.
In any event, the extractor and dishwasher  not working, even if I accept they were  in 
contact with water as a direct result of the leak, doesnt mean they were  most likely 
damaged beyond repair by the water. It is not uncommon for appliances to continue to 
work even  having  been subjected to water. I have no way to know whether these items 
most likely stopped working  due to water damage  or for some other reason. Whilst 
I understand Mr Ms frustration it is up to him to show his items sustained damage as a 
result of the incident.  It is not up to Zurich  to prove otherwise in order  to reasonably show 
it has no liability for replacing them. 
worktop
The worktop is in two sections. The section which contains the sink and sits over the top 
of the dishwasher  has dropped. Mr M said that is because  wood  supports  were  soaked 
and gave way. Zurich said the end over the dishwasher wasnt supported.
The report  Zurich has provided shows that the piece of worktop which hasnt dropped  
sits on top of the base  units. The area which  has dropped is situated, at one end, over 
the dishwasher. The top of the dishwasher  is slightly lower than the top of the unit next to 
it. There is no support showing between the top of the dishwasher and the bottom of the 
worktop. I think  Zurichs  conclusion  that the worktop has sunk due to a lack of supports, 
unrelated to the water leak, was fair and reasonable.
Mr M said the worktops were  perfect  before the incident  but they became bowed and 
cracked in many places  once soaked  by water. Zurich, Mr M said, hasnt shown  
evidence they werent  damaged by the water. Mr M provided a photo which he said 
showed the worktop bowed upwards, not sunk down  and he believes my provisional  
conclusion were influenced by Zurichs findings  made in an attempt to avoid liability.
My findings  are my own having considered the available evidence. The photo Mr M 
speaks of shows that the worktop to the left of the crack does appear to be a millimetre 
or so above  the unit at its leading corner. But the section  to the right (above the 
dishwasher) has clearly dropped slightly below the level of the neighbouring unit, with 
the top of the dishwasher being another few millimetres below that. Theres no sign of 
there being any support for the worksurface as it spans  the area above the dishwasher. 
Mr M says there is  further back,  towards the wall, out of shot of the photo, but he 
hasnt shown this. I know Mr M believed the worktop was damaged on account  of the 
water leak but, and having  reviewed everything, Im not persuaded this is most likely the 
case. It could have happened that way but for me to find that Zurichs response is unfair 
or unreasonable I have to be satisfied that was the most likely  cause, and the balance of 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt,  in my view,  support  that finding.
units
Ref: DRN49977244The report  completed  by Zurichs surveyor shows a picture showing damage to the side 
of a cupboard  door and a drawer, along with damage to what  appears to be the top of a 
wall unit situated in an area between the kitchen and an access  door. The report  doesnt 
refer to any damage to the bottom  of any wall units. Whilst I note Mr M has said 3 out of 
5 units are damaged,  Im not sure which three  or five he is referring to (photos of the 
kitchen appear to show more than five cupboard doors and there are the drawers  to 
account for too).
Im not persuaded that its fair to say that because the ceiling came down the damage on 
the side, at the bottom,  of the door and drawer fronts was most  likely caused by the 
water leak which caused the ceiling to fall. As I said above, I havent seen evidence  from 
the time of the claim itself  but I have seen  a very neat, for the most part, undamaged 
kitchen pictured in the report from January 2018. If sufficient water came into the kitchen 
from above to damage units, I would expect to see the most significant damage  
occurring to the wall units, and/or to the fronts of the cupboard  doors. As it is these 
appear undamaged  and in good order  the only damage is at the bottom of the side of 
one door and one drawer.  I think Zurichs conclusion that this has most likely resulted 
from cleaning, rather than the water leak, is reasonable.
The wall unit is a different  matter. Zurichs expert  does seem to accept it was damaged  
by water,  and its in line with staining  to the ceiling above. Whilst, Im not sure whether  
this was the area of loss subject of the original claim, I think  Zurich  should be 
considering settlement for this unit. If its a new area of damage,  then Mr M will need  to 
let Zurich know if he wants  it to process  a new claim for him regarding this unit.
Mr M has asked  if Zurich  should have to replace  all units to avoid a lack of match. This 
service often encourages insurers  to make settlement  to a policyholder to include an 
amount to make up for any loss of match  which  may occur when, in a room or open  plan 
areas of a house,  some matching items  are damaged and some are not, but the 
damaged items cant be replaced on a like basis. But I dont intend to direct Zurich in this 
respect here. I say that because the wall unit in question here, whilst an apparent match 
for those  in the kitchen, isnt within the kitchen itself. Rather its in a separate area which  
is divided by an archway and a curtain.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not persuaded that any loss which has occurred to a wall 
unit in the area next to the kitchen is likely related  to any damage to the bottom of the 
side of the door and drawer  fronts,  situated  within the kitchen itself, on an opposite wall. 
The areas are remote from each other, with no sign of other damage being  present in 
between them.
Mr M said other units in the kitchen  are damaged  not just the ones cherry-picked for 
review by Zurich in 2018. He said they are all affected in the same  way  stained  and 
peeling, but there is no way wall units could be affected by mopping. And he sought  to 
explain how a mop is used to wash the floor  not lifted  up to clean  and come  in contact 
with base unit doors. He provided photos  and explained that one of these is a base unit 
door, most remote from the leak and it isnt showing signs of damage. He believes if 
mopping had damaged  some base units all would be damaged. Other  photos, Mr M 
said, showed stained and peeling upper units. Regarding the wall unit near the access 
door, Mr M said this is not remote from the other damage as many  units in the kitchen 
were damaged, with the whole area having been affected. This is not a different room 
Mr M said, but part of the kitchen and was subject to the same  water deluge.  He wont 
be happy if he has to make a separate claim. 
Ref: DRN49977245Ive reviewed Mr Ms photos and those  from the 2018 report.  I cant  see similar damage 
to the upper  units  to that visible on the edges of the base unit door and drawer.  I see that 
Mr M has shown  a photo of one undamaged  base  unit  but that doesnt mean others 
werent damaged  by cleaning, and whilst I understand Mr Ms explanation of how one 
might clean a floor,  this flat was tenanted, so he doesnt know  how his tenants cleaned. 
The area near the access door, where  the damaged wall unit is situated might be 
considered to be a part of an open  plan kitchen. But its not immediately adjacent to, 
near or in-line with the area of the ceiling collapse,  as shown in the photo Mr M provided. 
And the area is separated  from the main part of the kitchen by a curtain. Mr Ms policy 
only covers him for damage.  It is this service which will sometimes require insurers  to act 
beyond the policy terms to provide cover for matching but undamaged  items. But as 
I explained provisionally, we will not usually require an insurer to do this when an item in 
a separated area is damaged, even  if those in a nearby area match.  
Zurich said the area next to the kitchen was never presented by Mr M as part of this 
claim, it doesnt think the damage occurred during this incident.  It said that being the 
case I should confirm  I am not upholding this complaint.  
I understand that Zurich does not want to have a complaint upheld against  it. But Zurich 
reattended Mr Ms property in 2018 to assess the areas of damage in the kitchen that 
were in dispute. The wall unit in the area next to the kitchen was included  in that report.  
If Zurich didnt think it should have been it could have dealt with that or explained it 
earlier. And it could still have acted on the fact of having found further damage. But it 
didnt. I stand by my original findings and provisional award.
claim handling
Ive seen how the claim progressed from January 2018 to the point of Zurichs last final 
response in October  2018. Im satisfied  that Zurich handled matters  appropriately and in 
a reasonable timeframe.  Im not persuaded it failed Mr M or that, as a result, any award 
of compensation  is reasonably due.
Mr M asked,  given  what he has said,  that I reconsider my finding. Ive considered Mr Ms 
response but I remain of the view that Zurich handled matter appropriately although Im 
mindful that it felt it could  have given Mr M an answer sooner and so paid £250  
compensation. I dont  intend to make it pay anything  more. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Zurich Insurance PLC to consider settlement for 
the damaged  wall unit, situated in the area next to the kitchen, but if this equates to a 
new claim, only upon receipt of direction and agreement from Mr M for a new claim to be 
set up and progressed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997724