K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva has rejected his home insurance claim for theft,  malicious 
damage and fire damage to his property,  and that it has voided  his policy  for breach of the 
fraud condition. He also claims for his mortgage payments and Council Tax.
background
Mr D took out a policy with Aviva  on 29 January  2019. In February 2019 he said was made 
aware that the property had been broken  into and damage caused and items stolen. 
Subsequently the property suffered an arson  attack and considerable damage was caused.  
He made  a claim for this as well.
Aviva appointed loss adjusters who interviewed  Mr D. In the course of that interview he said 
he hadnt been living in the property and lived at rented  property elsewhere.  The property 
insured by Aviva had been rented out to tenants  previously.  The loss adjusters contacted the 
police and discovered that the report of the break-in had been made to the police on 28 
January 2019.  Mr D had declared the property  to be where he was living at the time of taking 
out the policy and Aviva confirmed that the policy wasnt available for let properties.
Aviva advised Mr D that he was in breach  of the fraud condition  in the policy  as he had tried 
to make a claim for damage that had occurred before the policy  was taken out. As a result it 
voided the policy (cancelled it back to its start) and declined to make  any payment in respect  
of any of the claims.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Aviva had acted reasonably.  Mr D 
disagreed, pointing out that he had a genuine fire claim and that he could prove that at the 
time of the fire the were no tenants  at the property.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
theft/malicious damage
The evidence that the loss adjusters obtained  showed the break-in and damage  happened 
before the policy had been set up. The crime reference number supplied  by Mr D referred  to 
a break-in which occurred  a day before the policy was set up. So there was clearly no cover 
for this. But Aviva said that in attempting to say the break-in had happened after the policy 
was set up Mr D was in breach of the fraud condition in the policy which  says:
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit under  this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy  immediately and 
backdate the cancellation  to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
The effect of the condition  is that if Aviva is satisfied  that it applies,  it has the right to reject 
any claim and cancel  the policy back to the date of the fraudulent claim. Mr D may have 
chosen not to proceed with this claim, but he did initially make it and Aviva is entitled  to 
Ref: DRN45255982apply the condition if it thinks fraud has occurred.  Whilst I cant make a finding against Mr D, 
I nevertheless consider  that Aviva  has reasonably  applied the condition, in light of the 
circumstances of this claim.
fire
I appreciate that the fire happened after the policy was taken out. Nevertheless  the loss 
adjusters investigations found that Mr D wasnt living at the property and that he had been 
letting the property out. He admitted that he was living at a rented property elsewhere, which  
is the address  that appears on his driving  licence. When he took out the policy  he said his 
address was the risk address (the address for which he had taken out the policy)  so he was 
in breach of the policy conditions by not living there  and renting it out. Even  though as he 
says the property wasnt rented out at the time of the claim, I can see no evidence  that he 
intended to live there when the policy was taken out.
Aviva could have decided to void the policy for mispresenting  the circumstances at the start 
of the policy, but it has voided the policy for the breach  of the fraud condition.  This dates 
back to the date of the original claim for theft and malicious damage.  As the policy is null and 
void from that date any claims  after that wont be paid as there is in effect no policy in 
existence. So though the claim is genuine theres  still no cover for it under the policy.
mortgage/council tax
The policy doesnt  cover  these payments unless they can be shown to be a direct  loss as a 
result of an accepted  claim. I note the property has since been repossessed  and sold at 
what Mr D feels  to be a much  reduced  price. However  Aviva  isnt responsible for that loss. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2021.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4525598