K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Capital One Homeowner Loans  Limited (Capital One)  mis-sold  them  a 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy when  they took out a loan.
background
In April 2004 Mr and Mrs D took out a personal loan secured on their home. At the same  
time they were sold a PPI policy in Mr Ds sole name to cover their loan repayments if Mr D 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or became unemployed.
Our adjudicator thought that because the sale of PPI took place before it became a 
regulated activity he could only consider Mr and Mrs Ds complaint under a predecessor 
scheme  the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme (MCAS) and only to the extent it relates to 
a breach of the Mortgage Code. 
In doing so he found that the only complaint points  he could consider were  if it was made 
clear that PPI was optional and whether Mr and Mrs D were  given sufficient  information  on 
the cost of the insurance. Our adjudicator didnt think there  was any evidence  to show that 
Capital One told them they had to buy PPI and thought sufficient information on the cost was 
shown on the credit agreement. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They say they were  told taking PPI guaranteed  acceptance for the 
loan and that they werent told that interest would be charged  on the policy.  
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Im in agreement with our 
adjudicator and Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
As our adjudicator explained because the policy was sold before  PPI became a regulated 
activity we can only consider Mr and Mrs Ds complaint if the seller of the policy was covered 
by one of our predecessor  schemes at the time of the sale.  
Capital One was a member  of the Mortgage Code Compliance Board which means  that 
complaints could be considered by the MCAS   one of our predecessors. This being the 
case I can only consider Mr and Mrs Ds complaint to the extent it relates to a breach of the 
Mortgage Code.  And in regards to the sale of insurance Im limited to considering  whether  
there has been a breach in providing  information about:
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such insurance  be taken out and whose
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out; 
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by
us; 
a general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the
mortgage.
Ref: DRN49218442Mr and Mrs D have raised a number of complaint points but as Ive explained I am only able 
to consider whether the mortgage code was breached  in regards to the optionality of the PPI 
and the information provided on the cost of the policy.
Capital One needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D they had a choice in taking the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs D say this wasnt  done  and Capital One say that the documentation from the 
time of the sale makes  it clear to Mr and Mrs D that PPI was optional.  
So to decide how the PPI was presented,  Ive considered what  Mr and Mrs D have said 
along with any documents  weve been  given from the time of sale.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ds signed loan agreement which I see sets out the amount 
of the loan and the cost of PPI directly under this next to the words  Optional  Payment 
Protection Premium.
I can also see further down the agreement that theres a separate  section  that deals with PPI 
where it has Yes and No boxes  next to the words You have opted for the Payment 
Protection Plan. I can see a tick has been placed in the tick box. I understand Mr and Mrs D 
say they didnt tick the box and that it already had a tick in it when  they received the 
agreement, but I dont  think that they wouldve  thought the PPI wasnt  optional when thats 
how its described in the credit agreement they signed. 
And I think if Mr and Mrs D hadnt  agreed to take out PPI or thought they had no choice in 
taking the PPI they wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional 
within the agreement. So I think Mr and Mrs D received the loan agreement with PPI on it 
because they chose to take the loan with PPI when they applied  for the loan over the phone.
As I stated above the cost of the PPI was also set out in the credit agreement  separately to 
the cost of the loan. I think this is sufficient to comply  with the requirement to give a general 
description of the cost of PPI. So overall  I dont think Capital One breached  the mortgage 
code and it follows that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against 
Capital One Homeowner Loans Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4921844