K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the time it took Europ Assistance S.A. to deal with a claim  made on 
the excess waiver insurance policy for his hire car.
background 
Mr M took out excess waiver insurance for his hire car. He then told Europ Assistance S.A. 
hed had an accident and made a claim in October  2017. Mr M chased  Europ  Assistance 
S.A. for a decision on his claim. But it took it 17 months  for it to investigate and reject  the 
claim. Mr M was unhappy with this.
Our investigator recommended hat the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Europ 
Assistance S.A. was entitled to investigate the claim, but that it should do this within a 
reasonable time. He thought its delays had caused Mr M frustration and inconvenience.  So 
he thought Europ Assistance S.A. should  pay Mr M £200 compensation for this.
Europ Assistance S.A. asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Europ  Assistance S.A. objected to us considering Mr Ms complaint as it had 
been brought to us out of time. This was because  Mr M complained to us more  than six 
months after it issued  its decision on the complaint to him. But I agree with the investigator 
that the response sent by Europ Assistance  S.A. doesnt meet the requirements of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). So I dont think it can be used  to justify saying that we 
cant look at Mr Ms complaint. 
I can understand that Europ Assistance S.A. had concerns  about  Mr Ms claim and I think it 
was reasonable  for it to investigate these  before  making its decision about the claim. 
But Europ Assistance S.A. has told us that at one stage the claim file wasnt  acted on for a 
period of about nine months.  It was sent for further  investigation, but it didnt arrive at its 
intended destination. And then Europ Assistance S.A. didnt follow this up for many months. 
It then decided to decline the claim. 
I think it was for Europ Assistance S.A. to follow up the progress of the investigation to 
ensure that there were  no avoidable delays in the claim. During the period of inactivity  I can 
see that Mr M frequently emailed and asked for updates. I can see that he was frustrated 
and stressed with the lack of progress in the claim. 
Our investigator recommended that Europ Assistance S.A. should pay Mr M £200  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused him by these delays in the claim. I 
think thats fair and reasonable  as its what Id require in similar circumstances.
Ref: DRN49376742my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Europ Assistance S.A. to pay Mr M 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays in the handling 
of his claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4937674