K820x#14Complaint
C a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked its business account  and 
wont release the funds  remaining in it or close the account.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on Cs complaint in March 2020. Since this time HSBC  has 
said it doesnt have  anything further to provide.  And Cs representative has rejected the 
decision and forwarded a number of points  it wants me to consider again.
Much of the background facts to this complaint remain the same as those  stated in my 
provisional decision. But nevertheless, it is important to repeat those facts. 
C opened a business account  with HSBC in June  2012. It holds the account as trustee for a
pension fund. Monies from the pension fund were transferred  into and out of the account. In
July 2013, HSBC froze the account,  and it has remained frozen since this time. The account
holds a sizeable balance,  which C says represents the funds of four pension  fund scheme
members.
C contacted HSBC about why it froze the account. HSBC  questioned C about the pension
fund members activity that had taken place on the account, its directors (current and past)
and the relationship it had to certain individuals and other pension  funds  it wasnt  satisfied
with the response  C provided.
Since this time there has been  dialogue  between both parties, either  directly  or through legal
representation. I wont detail every question asked  and the response given for the sake of
efficacy, but I have  read all the documentation  that has been submitted by both parties.
C has on at least two occasions given instruction to HSBC to close  the account. But HSBC
has so far refused  to act on this instruction,  saying  it is able to continue to hold the funds and
not act on instructions from C under  the terms of the account. C disputes this.
As things  stand HSBC  is refusing to give C access to the funds. It says it needs further 
information from C in order to be satisfied its met its regulatory and legal obligations. It 
wants the names of the remaining members of the pension fund. Although,  it does have the 
name of one of those  members.
C says its has done everything it can to reasonably  answer HSBCs questions,  and its 
provided all the information  it can. It says providing  the full information HSBC wants  the 
identities of all the remaining members to the pension fund  would mean  asking its client to 
breach data protection law. C also says it has made  constructive proposals to HSBC, which  
HSBC hasnt reasonably engaged with.
C also says the account  terms HSBC is relying on dont apply and there is an implied term 
that HSBC must complete  its investigation within a reasonable time; a time which  has
long since passed.  C say its not obligated  to help HSBC anymore with the investigation but 
is has made a reasonable proposal to HSBC as a way forward to settle  the matter.
An investigator at our service thought the complaint  wasnt one we should consider and 
should be dismissed. They thought much of the information theyd need  to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome is not obtainable by our service. And in the absence of that information  
our ability to fairly investigate the complaint would be seriously impaired. They  also found the 
Ref: DRN46512402matter was better dealt  with in court due to the courts unlimited jurisdiction and ability  to 
obtain testimony and evidence  that we are unable to consider.
C strongly disagreed  with the recommendation to dismiss. It felt there were insufficient
grounds to do so, and it didnt think  it should have to pay to go to court. It says the complaint
ought to be considered by our service. As a result, the complaint was passed to me in my 
capacity as an ombudsman to decide.
I wasnt inclined to dismiss the complaint. I found there was enough evidence and 
information for me to reach a fair and reasonable outcome on the merits of the complaint. 
Instead, I provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint, affording C and HSBC the 
opportunity to provide further evidence  and comment before I made  a final decision.
C  has provided comment on a significant  portion of my provisional findings, so I find it 
important to include those  findings  in full here.
Findings in my provisional decision
I am currently inclined not to dismiss this complaint. I agree with the conclusion  that there
may be evidence or relevant information  which Ive not seen from either party  to this
complaint. But taking all the information  I do have into account, Im so far satisfied that Ive
enough to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in the individual circumstances of this
complaint. Ive considered also that if C is unhappy with the decision I reach, it can reject  it,
allowing it the option of taking the subject matter of the complaint to court  if it wishes.
C says the account  terms dont permit HSBC to take the action it has, and it has little legal or
regulatory justification. But as things currently stand,  Im not inclined to direct HSBC to
release the funds in the account. Neither am I inclined to direct  HSBC to close the account
or award  compensation.  Ill explain why.
Im aware C has put forward  many  points as to why HSBC should release the funds and
close the account. Ive considered everything  it has said but Ive found it unnecessary to
reference every single point made over the time the account has remained frozen. I discuss
below my main considerations.
HSBC has a wide variety of legal and regulatory  obligations it must  meet  when providing
accounts to its customers. These obligations are ongoing and do not only apply when  an
account is opened. To comply with those obligations  HSBC may need to ask questions  in
relation to an account and the activities taking place on it. It may therefore be interested  in:
- The individual  circumstances  of how certain  transactions arose.
- Inconsistencies in information provided  on when an account  opened  when compared
to how it was operated.
- The identity of individuals who have interests in funds held in an account or in the
funds transferred out of it.
- The qualifications,  experience and associations individuals  connected  to the account
Ref: DRN46512403have.
- Associations or relationships persons connected  with C and its client  have with other
persons or legal entities.
HSBC may also need to act in relation to an account  where  appropriate, which includes not
taking further  instructions  from an account  holder until its satisfied with the answers and
information it receives. If HSBC didnt  on occasion take action it could risk serious sanction.
I find no need to repeat HSBCs concerns here,  as theyve been clearly  expressed in
correspondence sent to Cs directors (former and present) and at certain times to Cs former
legal representatives.  And after considering all the circumstances  of this complaint, I find
HSBCs concerns arent unreasonable. And based  on the information Ive available  Im also
satisfied HSBCs position in relation  to the account isnt inappropriate.
C has via previous legal representation said it is under no obligation to assist  HSBC in the
way HSBC would like them to. But I think  its reasonable for C to provide all the information
HSBC has asked for to help demonstrate  that the funds ought to be released.  And I dont
find that continuing not to provide  HSBC with further  information ultimately means  HSBC  has
to release the funds.
C has put forward various points on why it wont  or cant  provide  further  information,  but I
dont find those points  persuasive. I cant see why the remaining members of the pension
scheme wouldnt consent to certain personal  information (their identities) being revealed  to
help HSBC review whether to release the funds they have an equitable interest  in. And
furthermore, I can see why HSBC  arent  fully satisfied  or persuaded by some of the previous
responses C has provided in relation to its other questions.
So, given HSBCs  concerns, Im satisfied on balance that its requests for further information
are reasonable and proportionate. And Im satisfied it has sufficient reason to keep  Cs
account frozen until such time that further  information assures it that releasing  the funds
wont risk breaching its legal and regulatory obligations.
Im also satisfied that HSBC is entitled  under the terms of Cs account to refuse to release
the funds and not act on its instruction to close. I see there  was some debate on whether a
valid variation of terms occurred while C couldnt  close its account. But whether there was a
valid variation or not, I find the original  terms C agreed to when opening the account still 
permit HSBC to take the action it has.
In response to my provisional decision,  C put forward a proposal to resolve the matter, which 
in part asked  me to direct  HSBC to take all necessary  steps to fully and constructively 
engage with C or its representatives within 90 days of my direction. It also asked me to 
instruct HSBC to give effect or enable transfers out of the fund by each member of the 
pension fund subject  to specific conditions.
C said that if the constructive proposal  failed  to resolve the matter, it wanted  me to consider 
a variety of points, which Ive summarised.
Ref: DRN46512404-HSBC had financial crime  concerns, but the responses C gave it were sufficient to 
answer those concerns.  HSBCs position is purposefully obstructive, and its failing in 
its duty to act constructively and prevent harm to the members of the pension  fund.
HSBCs letter of 29 June  2017 said its account review team will be in touch in due 
course. Considering  how long this matter has gone on, its clear HSBC  determined 
early on not to engage with C, despite  Cs best efforts.
-If HSBC had valid financial crime concerns, it needed to report those  concerns  via a 
suspicious activity report. Its unlikely this happened, as if those concerns had been 
verified by a regulatory authority HSBC  wouldve communicated this. 
-If HSBC had valid pensions liberation  concerns, it ought  to have reported those 
concerns to the pensions regulator. Again, its unlikely it did due to the 
comprehensive and detailed responses  C had provided. A 2013 review into the 
pension fund by HMRC didnt raise  any concerns.
-HSBC didnt engage with the proposal  C made in its letter of 8 June 2017 in a 
reasonable way. The proposal ensured  no money would be transferred to C but to 
other regulated  pension  funds  under the instruction  of the members of the pension 
fund.
-HSBCs handling of the complaint has failed to comply with DISP 1.4 of the Dispute 
Resolution Rules.
-C is now disadvantaged in comparison to HSBC. A provisional decision shouldnt 
have been made without  knowing HSBCs or Cs current  position on the matter,  or 
without reviewing what if anything HSBC has done since Cs last correspondence 
with it.
-In my provisional decision I wrote   there  may be evidence or relevant information 
which Ive not seen from either party  to this complaint.  So, I didnt base my 
provisional decision on everything I needed to consider in order  to reach  a fair 
outcome.
-Cs position on not providing the identities of the other members of the pension fund 
to HSBC is correct and cannot  be ignored  its surprised by my finding  that seeking  
the consent of those  members to pass on their details to HSBC would be an 
appropriate thing  to do.
-The content of the provisional decision doesnt  demonstrate Id considered all of Cs 
extensive actions  and submissions to HSBC  during  the time the account  has been 
restricted. This includes the paperwork  of a large and respected law firm. To these 
ends C, is unable  to understand  to a sufficient  extent the basis of my findings, and 
neither would a court.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
Ref: DRN46512405uphold Cs complaint for very much  the same reasons  I gave in my provisional  decision. 
Those findings are copied into the background section of this final decision and they form 
part of my decision.
C has asked me to direct HSBC to actively engage  with C on the matter of transferring funds 
out of the pension fund,  and to enable or give effect to those  transfers. It is, however, for me 
to decide the appropriate  resolution to a complaint. So, I find giving a direction in line with 
what C has asked is not appropriate unless I conclude its the fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint.  
The proposal was forwarded to HSBC,  so its had the opportunity to consider it. It confirmed 
its happy to engage further with C once it has received all the information it has asked for. 
Given HSBCs  response is clear,  I find it appropriate  to proceed to deciding  the complaint 
that C referred to this service. 
C may wish to engage further with HSBC after this final decision to attempt to resolve the 
matter of releasing the funds held in the account. This decision does not prevent HSBC from 
reasonably engaging with C in the future.  But it is not incumbent  on me to await the result of 
potential discussions in order  to make my final decision. 
In Cs response to my provisional decision it referred to jurisdictional issues. So, for clarity, I 
would like to explain that at no time was a finding  made by this service that this complaint is 
one we dont have the power to consider. Instead, the investigator who first considered the 
complaint found  it wasnt one our service should  consider. They  thought there was 
insufficient information to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
But I considered  carefully  Cs request for our service to consider its complaint. And, after 
reviewing all the evidence  and information  I had, I found there was sufficient  information  to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
C may be concerned  by my statement that there  may be evidence  or relevant information 
which Ive not seen from either party  to this complaint.  But I am not aware of any evidence  
or information which I ought to consider, but which hasnt been provided to me. This was 
also the situation when I made my provisional decision.
C finds my provisional decision not substantive enough to understand what information I 
have relied on to reach the conclusions I did. But I find I gave sufficient reasoning  that Id 
seen enough evidence and information  to understand both HSBCs  and Cs position with 
regard to the pension fund account.  And based  on what  Id seen I found HSBCs position 
was valid.
C says I didnt consider  all of Cs actions and submissions  to HSBC during the time the 
account has been restricted. C is of course entitled to its opinion,  but I did consider all of Cs 
previous submissions. Indeed, I find that was made quite clear in my provisional decision  I 
just found no need to reference them all. 
But to be clear, my considerations do take into account both Cs letter dated 8 June 2017 
and HSBCs letter dated 29 June 2017,  as well as the correspondence between  Cs legal 
representative and HSBC. But I have not considered  these documents  in isolation. Instead. I 
have considered them alongside all the other  information and evidence I have in order  to 
decide the complaint.
Ref: DRN46512406Having considered all the available information and evidence available  I am satisfied that it is 
reasonable for HSBC to continue to have legitimate concerns, in spite  of the responses C 
provided to its questions.  I understand why HSBC didnt find the answers it received 
regarding members of the pension fund and the relationship  between  the fund and other 
third parties conclusive in the way C posits.
C says I misdirected myself when concluding C had not provided a satisfactory response to 
HSBC regarding the identity of the members of the scheme. It says HSBC had known the 
identity of one of those members.  But I was aware  of this fact when making my provisional 
findings and took it into account.  It still remains that HSBC hasnt been made aware of the 
identities of the remaining members of the pension fund.
I find that it is reasonable for HSBC to require the disclosure of the identities of the remaining 
members of the pension  fund. And I dont find Cs client would be in breach of its data 
protection obligations if it obtained those members  consent  to disclose these details. Im 
also satisfied HSBC  has done what it needs  to in regard to its concerns, and that the terms 
of the account  also permit  it to continue to inhibit the account.
C may want  fuller insight into the actions of HSBC and the information  I have relied  on. But 
in the circumstances of this complaint,  I am not going to go into any further detail beyond 
what I have already said.
I find HSBCs  response to Cs recent  proposal is fair. It is prepared  to re-engage in 
discussion on releasing the funds, once it receives all the information it has asked for. I dont 
find it requiring this information purposefully  obfuscatory or done  for any other purpose than 
to ensure its complying  with its legal and regulatory  obligations.  Neither  do I find HSBC  is in 
breach of DISP  1.4 of the dispute resolution rules.
In conclusion, I remain satisfied that HSBC need  not allow access to the funds in the 
account until such time that C provides  it with the information HSBC  has asked  for, so 
HSBC can be confident it has fulfilled its regulatory  and legal obligations. 
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, I have  decided not to uphold  Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651240