K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr P bought the policy in 2001  at the same as taking out a credit card. Our adjudicator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaints been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. I know Mr P will find this disappointing, so Ill 
explain why.
Canada Square  has shown us internal records which show  the credit card was applied for 
using an internet application,  and the PPI was added at the same time.  
Canada Square  had to make it clear to Mr P that PPI was optional  and that he had a fair 
choice about whether  to take it out. The policy was taken out as part of Mr Ps credit  card 
application. Ive seen examples of the screens he likely wouldve completed at the time, one 
of which  included a PPI section. The PPI section  includes equally prominent yes and no 
options for PPI. I think its unlikely PPI wouldve been added to Mr Ps account  unless he 
ticked the yes box. 
Ive seen some of the monthly statements Mr P wouldve received. And I can see that PPI is 
referred to as credit  card repayment  protector.  So I think  its likely he wouldve noticed the 
additional product he was paying for. And if it wasnt something  Mr P wanted,  or chose to 
apply for, Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that he did.
Taking everything into account,  I think Canada Square made it clear that Mr P didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this after so many years.
The application was made online.  Ive seen no evidence that Mr P spoke to anyone from 
Canada Square  during  the application.  So I think it is very unlikely  that Canada  Square gave 
Mr P personal advice to take out the policy. So Canada Square didnt have to check  that the 
policy was suitable  for him. However,  it still had to give Mr P clear information about  the 
policy so he could decide about whether it was right for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square  provided couldve been clearer  but I dont  think 
clearer information wouldve led to Mr P making  a different decision. I say this because:
Ref: DRN45392602Mr P was eligible  for the policy and he doesnt  appear to have been affected by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations,  for example,  any that related to pre-existing 
medical conditions.
The policy wouldve  covered  10% of Mr Ps monthly balance for up to 12 months  if he 
became unemployed or too ill to work. In his original complaint to Canada Square   
Mr P said he would receive no sick pay from his employer. In the questionnaire he 
completed for this service Mr P said he was entitled to six months full followed by six 
months half sick pay. But the PPI could have paid a benefit  for longer than his full 
sick pay would last so I still think Mr P would find it useful if he couldnt  work. 
Particularly if he were unwell for a prolonged period. 
Mr P has said he had some savings to rely on. I can see that Mr P transferred a 
balance from another  card after he took the Canada Square card. This suggests to 
me that Mr Ps savings were important to him as he wanted  to keep them  intact 
rather than use them to clear  his credit card balance.  The PPI policy would have 
enabled him to pay the credit card repayments  without using his savings.
Mr P had a critical illness policy in place in 2001, but this is a different  type of policy  
from PPI so I dont think the PPI duplicated cover  Mr P already had.
Mr Ps wife was in full time employment and Mr P has said she would have been able 
to help him. But if Mr P had lost his job or was too unwell to work,  the overall 
household income  would likely reduce significantly 
Mr P has told us he held a second, part-time job at the time of his credit card 
application. He says he worked approximately  five to ten hours  a week  in this role. 
His representative has told us they think this would have  made  it hard for him to 
make a claim on the policy for unemployment.  Ive thought  about  this but when Mr P 
completed the online application, he didnt  mention  that he had any other income  
other than his full-time employment.  From  what Ive seen I think the second job was 
likely to have been an informal,  casual arrangement and I dont think it would have 
prevented him from making a claim if hed needed  to.
In summary,  Its possible the information  Canada Square gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if he couldnt work or lost his job. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr P off taking out the cover.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint and make  no award against Canada 
Square Operations Limited. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45392603
Ref: DRN4539260