K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wouldnt lend 
against a flat they wanted to buy unless the block was at least 75% privately owned.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with First Direct that they wanted to port to a new property.  
They approached First Direct in March  2019  and were told that its policy  was to not lend on 
ex-local authority  properties unless private  occupancy in the block exceeded 75%.
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs M arranged a mortgage with a different lender and incurred an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) with First Direct when  they repaid their existing mortgage.
Mr M complained to First Direct, saying its policy was discriminatory. He said it was offensive 
and he was worried about his childrens future going forward if such policies are in place. He 
said that as First Direct provided  a social service he couldnt believe the government  would 
allow the lender  to do it. Mr M said First Direct didnt want  to lend to black  people, and when 
asked why he thought that he said it was because in the area hes buying  in, the majority of 
social housing is lived in by black families. First Direct rejected the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M referred the complaint to us, saying:
It is therefore apparent that the policy is not a matter  of commercial consideration but is 
based upon a social factors - bluntly,  the bank does  not wish to lend in poorer 
communities
the intent of the policy applied by First Direct is to engineer the profile  of customers 
rather than determine  provision of service  upon commercial considerations. I consider 
this to be a form of indirect discrimination.
I strongly  believe that their failure  to discuss this in any meaningful  way relates to the 
acute embarrassment  such disclosure would bring  in explaining  a policy  based upon  
social prejudices  and stereo-typing.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree so its been passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised events in rather less 
detail than has been presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are frustrated about  First Directs policy  on ex-local authority 
properties and I recognise how strongly  they feel about this. But I dont think First Direct has 
acted unreasonably in applying its policy as it did. Businesses make  a commercial decision  
about the types of property theyre  willing to accept as security for a mortgage. Its not an 
unusual policy in the mortgage  market  (albeit  the percentage of properties  a lender would 
want to be privately owned  would vary), so First Direct most  certainly  isnt the only lender 
with such a restriction. As long as a policy isnt discriminatory and is applied  fairly then it 
Ref: DRN47921162would be highly inappropriate  for me to interfere with it. Its not my place to tell a lender what 
its business model should  be in terms of the properties  its willing  to grant mortgages on.
Ive carefully considered  Mr and Mrs Ms claims that the policy is discriminatory,  but Im not 
persuaded by them.  Whilst Mr and Mrs M said that in the area they were buying in, most of 
the social housing  is lived in by black families that doesnt mean First Direct is discriminating 
against potential  customers because of their race. I say this because First Direct would also 
have been unwilling to grant  a mortgage on an ex-local authority property if it was elsewhere 
in the country,  such as in an area where there are few ethnic minority potential  customers. 
The issue  was the property is ex-local authority and there  are ex-local authority  properties 
spread throughout the country, not just in the area Mr and Mrs M were  looking to buy in. 
And, in any event, First Direct  was willing to lend if at least  75% was privately owned, so 
again it wasnt the area that was the issue.
Its also not a matter of First Direct not wanting to lend in poorer communities, and wanting  
to engineer the profile of its customers.  This wasnt a cheap property. Mr and Mrs M paid 
£400,000 for it, so well out of the reach  of the poorer communities that Mr and Mrs M are 
concerned about.  There are poor communities elsewhere in the country,  where properties 
change hands  for significantly less than £400,000,  that First Direct grants mortgages for. As 
Ive said, the only issue was that it was an ex-local  authority  property, and First Direct would 
only grant a mortgage  on it if at least 75% of the properties were  privately  owned.
Mr and Mrs M were  told about this policy upfront, rather than part way through the mortgage 
process. If they didnt  want to incur the ERC  they could have pulled out of the purchase and 
looked for another property to buy. Instead Mr and Mrs M decided to go ahead  with the 
purchase using  a different mortgage lender and so incurred the ERC. Mr and Mrs M had the 
chance to pull out of the purchase and chose not to so theres no reason why First Direct 
should refund the ERC it fairly charged  when they repaid  their mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4792116