K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) asked for all four digits  of her 
security pin code. Shes also unhappy  with the service she received when she complained. 
background
In January 2018 Mrs S contacted RBS. She wanted  to transfer some money. The banks 
agent asked Mrs S to confirm two numbers from her four-digit passcode. But she was then 
asked for another two numbers  which meant  shed provided  all four digits.  Mrs S said this 
happened during conversations with three different advisers during the day.
Mrs S is unhappy it took three letters before she got a response to her complaint. Shed 
seen adverts on TV which tell customers not to give out all of the numbers in their 
passcodes. So shed like compensation for the security breach.
RBS apologised  for Mrs S not receiving its response. Itd written to her on 5 February  2018  
and hadnt received her follow-up letter. So the bank  sent another  copy of its response.  The 
bank confirmed it wouldnt ask a customer to disclose their full pin code.  RBS said it hadnt  
been able to trace any of Mrs Ss calls.  But itd passed feedback to the relevant 
departments. And it apologised  for any conflicting information Mrs S had received.
Mrs S wasnt  satisfied  with RBSs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She wasnt able to listen to the calls to RBS. But she 
didnt think it was unreasonable  for different departments to verify Mrs Ss identity   
especially when she was transferred from one unit to another. So she didnt think the bank 
had breached its duty of confidentiality.  And she couldnt hold RBS responsible for Mrs S not 
receiving its response in February 2018.  Shed seen a copy of the letter which  showed  itd 
used the correct address. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She still felt thered been a blatant breach of security.  Shed actually 
been asked for all four digits of her password  on three separate  occasions. So shes  asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ss concerns. She was sure RBS had asked for all four digits  of her 
security code. And shes worried it mightve  exposed her account  to fraud. So Ive looked at 
everything thats happened  to see if the bank has made any mistakes   and if it has what it 
needs to do to put things  right.
I can see our adjudicator asked for more information  to help RBS trace the telephone calls. 
Mrs S confirmed the date and time of day when  she spoke  to the bank. The first search had 
looked for the call on 24 January 2018.  But Mrs S confirmed shed spoken to RBS in the 
evening on 26 January. And the bank was then able to find a recording of the call. 
Ive listened to the recording. RBSs agent  carries  out a security check to confirm 
Mrs Ss identity.  And the banks system asks for the first and second digit of her code. But it 
takes some  time and the agent has to try a different way to locate her account. 
Ref: DRN41796402Unfortunately the system then conducts  another security check  this time asking for the 
third and fourth number  of Mrs Ss pin. The agent  explains  why the banks system  has done 
this. And Ive not seen anything to suggest the explanation is implausible. But I can 
understand Mrs Ss concerns. The agent  is now aware of all the digits in her security  pin 
code. 
I do appreciate how this would be worrying to Mrs S. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  
the information was used  to cause her any financial loss. And I would expect RBSs  agent to 
have received appropriate training to ensure  the information wasnt  misused in any way. 
During the call Mrs S does express her concerns  but only after shes  disclosed all four of 
the digits.
Mrs S has referred to the banking industrys own advertisements which tell customers  not to 
disclose all of the digits in case the person they are speaking to is a fraudster.  And I agree 
she was right to be concerned when RBSs system asked for further security information.  
But in this case Mrs S wasnt speaking to a fraudster. She was talking to a member of staff 
who was trying to help Mrs S sort out a problem on her account.  
Unfortunately I havent been able to listen to the remainder of Mrs Ss conversation with RBS 
to see if the situation  with her pin code was repeated. Because  the call was transferred 
internally it isnt able to locate the other  agents she spoke to. But theres nothing to suggest 
Mrs Ss account security has been compromised in any way. So it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask RBS to pay compensation for something that didnt  actually happen.
Mrs S says she didnt receive  the banks reply to her January letter. RBS has provided  a 
copy of the letter. And Ive not seen anything to suggest it wasnt sent. Although Mrs S says 
she wrote  to the bank  again later in February  theres no record  of the bank receiving the 
letter. And Mrs S wasnt able to provide copies of her letters after such  a period  of time. I can 
see RBS did reply  to the two letters  it received.  And without any further evidence Im not able 
determine why the bank  didnt receive Mrs Ss other  letter and reply accordingly. 
Although Mrs S is right to be vigilant about the dangers of fraud, theres  nothing  to suggest 
any issues were caused  to affect  her account  security. Mrs S was right to say she asked  for 
all four digits of her pin code during the call. But it seems to have been part of a genuine 
attempt by the banks agent to locate her account and resolve the problem she had 
contacted the bank  about. 
I realise Mrs S will be disappointed with this outcome. She feels shes been treated very 
unfairly. And she should be compensated. But, based on everything Ive seen,  I cant  really 
say RBS has done anything wrong.  And I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
Ref: DRN41796403ombudsman
Ref: DRN4179640