K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
between 1996  and 2000. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB) mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Lloyds cant be certain when the PPI was sold but has assumed it was sold when the credit  
card was taken out in 1996. Lloyds has given us a statement from 2000, which is the earliest  
available statement and it a shows  PPI was already on the account   its likely the policy  was 
added sometime between  1996  and 2000. So Ive looked at the complaint on this basis  but I 
think it was most probably sold when  Mr W applied for the credit  card.
I dont have any notes  of a meeting or telephone  conversation, so I dont know what was 
discussed. And Ive not seen any paperwork from the time thats been signed  by Mr W. But 
based on what Lloyds  and Mr W have  told us, along  with what I know generally about how 
Lloyds usually sold PPI at the time, on balance I think  Lloyds made it clear that Mr W didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  even if understandably  he doesnt 
recall that now, many  years  later.  
I have also seen that PPI appeared  on Mr Ws monthly credit card statements  as a separate  
entry and had he not asked to take it I would reasonably have expected him to question  this 
sooner than he did. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN48566452To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4856645