K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background 
Ms B took receipt of a new car in October 2017. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS.
But she had problems  with the car. She says there  was a problem with the android system 
that was resolved when she collected the car and within a couple of months an electrical 
fault on the lighting circuit was repaired. In November 2018 an Engine Management Light 
(EML) illuminated and a repair to the accelerator  wiring was attempted.  But subsequently the 
fault returned and a more  extensive repair was carried out. The dealership  renewed the 
accelerator wiring; repaired the wiring harness and replaced an Engine  Control  Unit (ECU) 
plug. The car had completed  just under 10,000  miles at this point,  in February  2019.  
MBFS offered Ms B £250 to compensate  her for the inconvenience shed experienced when 
frequently taking  her car for repair. The dealership offered £310 as a goodwill gesture. In 
February 2019 the dealership agreed  to allow her to reject the car so she could terminate 
her finance  agreement. But Ms B was still dissatisfied as she complained that MBFS 
shouldve refunded the finance instalments shed made too.
She therefore referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion. 
He didnt think there was evidence  to suggest the car was faulty at the point of supply, when 
he said MBFS were  responsible for its quality. So he didnt think  it would be fair to ask them  
to provide any further redress as he thought the actions theyd taken to date had been  fair 
and reasonable and he was satisfied that the car, which had completed significantly more 
trouble free mileage, was now working  satisfactorily.
But Ms B disagreed  and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Ms B so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN47187892The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Ms B. The car here 
was brand new and I wouldnt expect it to have any faults.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MBFS to put this right. 
But MBFSs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Its clear here that a fault with the rear light was reported  in the first few months  and I think 
its therefore most likely  that this fault was present or developing when Ms B took receipt  of 
the car. In such circumstances  the relevant legislation allows  MBFS an opportunity to repair  
the fault. I can see they did so and the next demonstrable fault wasnt  until Ms B complained 
the EML was illuminated in November 2018,  more  than a year after she took receipt of the 
car.
Im not persuaded there is evidence that this EML fault, or any of the issues reported at this 
time by Ms B i.e. the brake assist  light illuminating,  were present or developing at the point of 
supply.
When I consider whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality however, legislation would 
encourage me to consider whether the car has proven to be suitably durable. Here  I think it 
has been. Whilst I understand  that the EML problems wouldve  been very frustrating for 
Ms B, I think its reasonable to suggest these issues were resolved satisfactorily and enabled 
her to drive several thousand subsequent miles unhindered. 
The car has now been rejected and the agreement terminated anyway. MBFS have paid 
Ms B £250 in recognition  of the distress  thats  been  caused and the deposit has been  
refunded. Ms B has also been offered a goodwill payment  from the dealership thats 
equivalent to one monthly finance instalment. 
Ref: DRN47187893I think, in the circumstances,  enough  has been  done. The dealership hasnt argued about 
rejecting the car, but could have as the EML faults  occurred  after Ms B had been in 
possession of the car for some time.  So Ms Bs deposit has been refunded and this will have  
fairly allowed her to use it as a down payment towards a replacement  vehicle. Ms B has also 
received compensation for the time the car was unavailable to her when it was being  
repaired and has received an additional goodwill payment.
Ive considered whether MBFS should  refund Ms Bs GAP  insurance and the money  shes  
paid to insure her alloy wheels. Ive also considered whether a further  payment should  be 
made to compensate Ms B for any mileage  completed during  road testing at the dealership. 
These may have been costs I would have  considered to be consequential losses  if I agreed  
there was sufficient evidence to clearly support a rejection of the vehicle. But Ive not been  
provided with sufficient evidence to persuade me that Ms B should have been allowed to 
reject the car. I dont think  it would be reasonable to ask MBFS to refund any instalments 
Ms B has made. Shes already received compensation totalling £560  and I think, in the 
circumstances, this, and the redress in general, is reasonable. So I wont be asking  MBFS to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4718789