K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him inaccurate information about  his 
balance when he checked an Automatic Teller Machine (ATM) which led to his account 
going overdrawn.
background
Mr A checked his Nationwide account balance at an ATM several times in one day in 
December 2018  after hed deposited  £900  on the account. He made  two cash  withdrawals 
and several card payments that day which  left the account overdrawn. He says the balance 
showing on the ATM wasnt accurate and if hed known the balance  he wouldnt have gone 
overdrawn. So he complained to Nationwide and asked  for a refund of the overdraft fee. 
Nationwide rejected his complaint so Mr A came to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt think 
the complaint  should succeed  so Mr A asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr A deposited  £900  on the day 
in question. This cleared  his existing overdraft of £34.98  and put the account in credit. From 
the records Nationwide provided, I see Mr A checked the balance  on the account several 
times through the day. He made two cash withdrawals of £300  and £160.  And he also made 
several card payments totalling  £505.  So in total he withdrew £965 that day putting the 
account back into overdraft. Card payments wouldnt necessarily  show up straight  away on 
the balance displayed on the ATM  as they could take time to process. But the current 
account terms make it clear that consumers need to make sure they have  the funds needed 
for any payments  they make which includes keeping track of what they put in and take out of 
the account. So, in the circumstances,  I dont think Nationwide was responsible  for Mr As 
account going overdrawn.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr A to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4658083