K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that NRAM Limited  appointed a Law of Property Act Receiver  
(LPAR) in August 2018 to manage  their buy-to-let property due to mortgage arrears. They 
also complained  about the service provided  by their commercial consultant  (who  Ill call 
AB) and said they wanted a different person to manage their account.
background
Mr and Mrs Fs account went  into arrears when they didnt make any payments in May,  June  
and July 2018. They said this was because their tenant didnt pay them,  and they spent the 
money they had available on renovations to the property that their tenant had asked for.
Arrears letters were  sent to Mr and Mrs F in May and June. On 28 June NRAM wrote  to 
Mr and Mrs F to warn  them  that if the situation hadnt been rectified by 12 July then it would 
issue a formal demand. As nothing was forthcoming the formal demand was issued on 
12 July.
The formal  demand  prompted Mrs F to call NRAM and she had a lengthy call with AB. He 
told Mrs F that the only way to stop further action was for her and Mr F to complete some 
income and expenditure forms and for a proposal to be agreed for the repayment  of the 
arrears. Mrs F said they wouldnt be able to pay anything for July, but would be in a position 
to pay the mortgage plus £200  towards  the arrears each month from August. AB asked 
Mrs F to try to pay something  in July at least,  and explained how urgent the matter was. 
AB offered  to email  the forms to Mr and Mrs F, but Mrs F insisted they were posted  to them  
instead. It was anticipated  theyd receive those on Monday  16 July and it was agreed that 
they would  post them back by Friday  20 July so a further conversation  could be held on 
23 July. Again AB reiterated how urgent it was.
Mrs F told NRAM on 20 July that they hadnt received the forms so the forms were sent 
again by recorded delivery,  so NRAM could be sure Mr and Mrs F received them  on 21 July.
As it heard nothing  further NRAM wrote  to Mr and Mrs F on 9 August to say it would be 
appointing the LPAR if things were  not resolved by 16 August.
Mrs F spoke  to AB on 17 August and in that call she said theyd returned the forms with a 
covering letter and a cheque (post-dated for 15 August)  on 23 July. AB said he hadnt  
received them and questioned why Mr and Mrs F had left it until then to call in and why they 
hadnt answered when NRAM had been  trying to contact them in the meantime. Mrs F said 
shed been busy  and unwell, and that they hadnt received the letter  about  the LPAR 
appointment dated 9 August with the 16 August deadline.
Mr and Mrs F complained about the instruction of the LPAR,  and the service provided  by AB. 
NRAM rejected their complaint on 28 August 2018.
Our adjudicator said NRAM  had the right to appoint the LPAR under the terms of the 
mortgage and that AB hadnt treated Mr and Mrs F poorly. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and so 
the matters been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN43974582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr and Mrs F. But although  Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs F said they wanted to send  us further  submissions, but despite our 
adjudicator chasing this up, nothing further has been sent in. As we cant keep complaints on 
hold indefinitely, and following a final deadline being given by our adjudicator,  Ill now be 
deciding the complaint based on what we already hold.
Before I address the underlying merits of the complaint  in detail, there  are some 
observations I need to make about the extent of my remit  to consider this complaint.
Due to the nature of the situation, Mr and Mrs F have mentioned  various new issues that 
have come up whilst this complaint has been ongoing. We cant  look at issues that havent 
already been considered by the business  complained about, so Mr and Mrs F will need  to 
make a fresh complaint  to NRAM (if they still want to, and havent already done  so) if they 
want those issues looked at. Here I can only consider the two points mentioned in the 
August 2018 final response letter, which are:
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that NRAM instructed  the LPAR  to take control  of the 
property.
Mr and Mrs F feel AB has been unhelpful and has caused Mrs F undue stress.
Clearly the mortgage  was in arrears, so NRAM was entitled to take legitimate steps  to recover 
the money owed  to it. The step it took in appointing an LPAR was a commercial decision that 
NRAM was entitled  to take.  Generally  speaking,  we wont interfere in the way a financial 
business exercises its commercial judgement, and Im not persuaded there are grounds  for 
me to do so here.
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage terms and conditions state NRAMs right to sell the property - or to 
appoint an LPAR - is exercisable immediately upon  Mr and Mrs F being more than two 
months late with their monthly  payments. Mr and Mrs F went  over that threshold before the 
LPAR appointment and so Im satisfied NRAM was entitled to take that action under the 
mortgage contract.  Mr and Mrs F say they didnt receive the letter  of 9 August about the 
appointment and it is unfortunate Mrs F happened  to phone the day after the deadline. 
However having listened to the calls Im satisfied  AB had already  warned Mrs F that the 
appointment of the LPAR was a possibility,  and NRAM has said that by that point a monthly 
repayment arrangement  wouldnt have been enough to hold off on the appointment in any 
event.
Mr and Mrs F said they returned the required forms and sent a covering letter and cheque on 
23 July but NRAM  has confirmed those have never been received. Unfortunately  
Mr and Mrs F didnt  follow them up despite  having been told the urgency  of the situation. Its 
concerning that post doesnt  seem  to reach Mr and Mrs F (and I understand thats a long term 
issue as they also reported that as a problem on previous  complaints weve dealt with against  
other financial businesses  over the years), and that there also seems  to be a problem with 
Ref: DRN43974583items they post back. I can only suggest  they raise  those  issues with the Royal Mail as it 
forms a concerning picture  of post going astray  in both directions - in Mr and Mrs Fs area.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs F and AB, and also considered the actions AB 
undertook. Having done so Im satisfied AB acted appropriately, dealt with Mrs F 
professionally and treated her with respect. AB explained to Mrs F what  was happening and 
tried to get a repayment arrangement in place. He told Mrs F how urgent it was, and what  
could happen  if the matter  wasnt resolved. When matters werent resolved AB appointed  the 
LPAR in line with NRAMs policies  and procedures. It would be entirely inappropriate for me to 
interfere with how NRAM does business, and that includes ordering NRAM to appoint 
someone other than AB to deal with Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage account.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied NRAM didnt act inappropriately here and so I 
dont uphold this complaint, and I make no order or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4397458