K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws unhappy with how St Andrews Insurance Plcs dealt with his claim made under a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr Ws PPI policy started  in 2002.  He was unemployed for six months in 2009  and St 
Andrews paid out around £5,700 in benefits in December 2018.
Unhappy, Mr W complained. He said St Andrews  should  have paid the claim several years 
earlier and that he suffered  financial  loss due to the delay. St Andrews didnt agree with 
Mr W, so he brought his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  The 
adjudicator didnt see enough evidence  to show that St Andrews ought to have  paid the 
claim any sooner that it did.
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, in this decision Ive focused on what  happened when Mr W says 
he tried to claim on the policy. Ive not dealt with the sale of the policy  which was carried  out 
by a different  financial business and not St Andrews. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Mr W was unemployed in 2009 and that benefits were  due under  the 
policy. Indeed,  St Andrews paid the claim in December 2018. And I think what it paid was 
appropriate given  the monthly benefit  amount. 
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that St Andrews  is responsible for the losses he suffered as 
a result of his claim not being paid much  sooner  that is, in 2009 or 2010. With that in mind, 
Ive looked into when Mr W made his claim and when St Andrews ought to have had 
enough information with which to accept  it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr Ws said about trying  to claim on the policy in 
2009. But Ive also taken into account  St Andrews internal records  of its dealings  with Mr W 
at the time (I understand that no call recordings are still available). I wont  detail  what each 
and every one of the call records says as Id simply be repeating what  Mr Ws already been 
told by St Andrews and our adjudicator.  Suffice  it to say Ive seen  nothing  to indicate he tried 
to claim in 2009/2010. On the contrary, it appears  St Andrews persuaded him to keep the 
PPI cover in place after Mr W had called intending  to cancel it (albeit  Im satisfied he did 
eventually cancel it in 2010). Although one of the records, dated August 2009, shows  
St Andrews  transferred him through to its claims department, theres  nothing  to show he 
actually went ahead  and made a claim at the time or provided St Andrews with enough 
information with which to pay any benefits.
Ref: DRN42529352Mr Ws asked  why he wouldnt have made a claim in 2009/2010  given that was when he 
became unemployed. I cant say for sure why that wasnt the case but as I say, at one stage, 
it looks as though he wanted  to cancel the policy altogether.  I can see St Andrews  
discussed the policy features with him at various time, so it may be that he didnt meet  the 
requirements, or at least he felt he didnt meet them. Either way, I cant  see that it was 
St Andrews  that delayed  the claim.  
Mr W then told St Andrews in 2018  that he wanted to make  a claim and it promptly  sent him 
a claim form. Around four weeks  after that, Mr W returned his completed claim form to 
St Andrews  together with supporting papers. Less than two weeks  after that, St Andrews 
confirmed its acceptance and payment of the claim.  
Considering the sequence  of events, I dont think  St Andrews unduly delayed  the claim in 
2018 either.
Taking everything into account,  and while I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling  about the 
matter, I dont believe St Andrews ought  to have paid the claim sooner  than it did. As such, I 
dont believe  its responsible for the payment of any interest on the claim amount or for any 
losses he might have  suffered because  the claim wasnt paid in 2009/2010.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252935