K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited  rejected his section 75 claim  when he 
complained about the non delivery of a laptop purchased from a third party supplier using his 
Vanquis credit card.
background
In April 2018 Mr M purchased a laptop  online and paid with his Vanquis credit  card.  The cost 
of the laptop was £319.98.
On 6 April 2018  Mr M received a text to say the laptop had been delivered  to his home 
address. Mr M was away for the weekend.  When he returned on 9 April 2018 he contacted  
the supplier and told them the laptop  hadnt been received and that no-one had been at 
home to take delivery.
The supplier  said the delivery driver had confirmed that the laptop had been delivered to the 
correct address. It said the signature on the proof  of delivery was similar to Mr Ms signature.
Mr M contacted Vanquis and made  a section 75 claim. Initially the cost of the laptop was 
credited to Mr Ms account but later Vanquis  declined the claim and re-debited  the account.
Mr M is unhappy  because  he says he didnt accept or sign for delivery.  He says that only he 
and his wife live at the property and they were  both away when the delivery  was made. To 
resolve his complaint, Mr M wants his account credited.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that based  on the available  
information, Vanquis hadnt acted  unfairly  or unreasonably in declining  the section 75 claim.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said the signature  on the proof of delivery  wasnt his and that he had 
been in Mansfield at the time when the laptop was delivered. He said it was unfair  to prefer  
the evidence of the supplier, which he felt was based on a fraudulent signature.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr M has a like claim against  Vanquis 
as he does against the supplier for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. For the 
purposes of section 75, a beach of contract is where  the supplier fails to do what the contract  
says it must, either expressly or by implication. For example,  there is a breach  of contract 
where goods that have been paid for are not supplied, or are not up to standard.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what  happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim  under section 75.
Mr M says he didnt  receive the goods. In order to uphold  the complaint, I would need  to be 
satisfied on the balance of probability that the goods werent delivered.
The delivery company  who delivered the goods on behalf of the supplier has said that the 
laptop was delivered at 15.19pm  on 6 April 2018. It said the laptop was delivered to the 
Ref: DRN41915032address provided  by Mr M when he placed his order.  GPS details provided by the delivery 
company show the driver was at Mr Ms property.
The supplier  has said the signature on the proof  of delivery is similar to the signature  
provided by Mr M on his disclaimer form. Mr M says he didnt sign the proof of delivery and 
feels that the delivery driver signed it in his name.
Ive looked at the signatures on the proof  of delivery and the disclaimer.  There are 
similarities in the signatures.  Ive taken into account the fact that one signature  is electronic 
and the other is in paper form. On balance, there are more similarities than differences. 
Because of this, I think the person who signed  the proof of delivery knew  what Mr Ms 
signature looked like. I cant  be certain  of who signed the proof of delivery.  I appreciate that 
Mr M says he was away for the weekend and didnt sign the proof  of delivery.  Mr M has 
provided evidence  to show that he was in a supermarket in Mansfield on 7 April 2018  but In 
havent see any evidence  that Mr M was in Mansfield or anywhere else on 6 April 2018, the 
day when the laptop was delivered.
Taking into account all of the available evidence, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities 
that the laptop was delivered  to Mr Ms address on the date and time shown on the proof  of 
delivery. Because of this, I dont think there are grounds for a successful section 75 claim 
and I cant fairly conclude that Vanquis has acted unreasonably  in declining  the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4191503