K822xcomplaint
Mrs N complains that Legal and General Insurance Limited declined her claim under her 
home insurance policy. 
For the purposes of this decision, reference to Legal and General includes the acts and 
omissions of its appointed  agents.  
background 
Mrs N had a buildings  insurance policy with Legal  and General to insure her home. During 
October 2018, she reported  that water was entering  her property and claimed that this was 
because a storm had caused damage to her roof on 1 October 2018. 
Legal and General asked  Mrs N to arrange  a roofing contractor to provide photos of the 
damage, estimates of the cost of repairs and a cause  of damage report. Then, during a call 
in late October 2018, Legal and General advised  Mrs N that there  was an endorsement on 
the policy for the flat section of the roof. So, in addition to the evidence  of the damage, it 
required proof that an inspection by a roofing contractor had been conducted within the last 
seven years. Mrs N was confident that an inspection  had taken place within this time frame,  
because she remembered that her previous insurer had asked  for an inspection.  So, she 
agreed to find the relevant documentation  as evidence.  
In January 2019, Mrs N told Legal and General that shed found it difficult to provide all of 
the information it had asked for. Shortly afterwards, she sent a quotation for the cost of 
repairs and Legal  and General acknowledged this  but advised  that photos  of the damage 
and the report  was still needed.  Later that month,  Mrs N pointed out that shed appointed a 
scaffolding company so that the roof could be accessed and it was requesting  payment. 
Legal and General reiterated that this information was still outstanding and it was needed  in 
order to determine  whether  the claim could be accepted, before any payment would be 
made. 
Mrs N was under the impression that shed sent the photos and report  already.  But in any 
event, in February 2019, Legal and General received this information. It considered the 
quotation and cause of damage report which was conducted in November 2018. This report 
recommended a total flat roof replacement, due to this part of the property being beyond  
economical repair. It concluded that this damage could only have been caused  due to high 
winds lifting the lead on the roof, which allowed water to penetrate  underneath.  And if the 
problem was not rectified swiftly,  it would result in a total roof failure. 
Considering all of the information provided,  Legal  and General judged that the lead flashing  
had indeed been lifted, but this made up only part of the flat roof  yet there appeared to be 
damage to the full roof, as a result of water ingress.  Therefore, it checked this assessment 
with the contractor who conducted  the report.
In April 2019, Mrs N was yet to hear from Legal  and General  to confirm whether it would 
accept the claim. She asked it to provide  an update and subsequently Legal and General 
called her, to ask again whether she had evidence of an inspection  of the flat section of the 
roof. At that point,  Mrs N explained that she did have an inspection previously  but the 
contractor who did it was no longer trading and the certificate was unobtainable.  
Ref: DRN42904432A week or so later, Legal and General told Mrs N that the claim had been  declined. It said 
this was because  shed failed to provide evidence that endorsements  on the policy  had been 
adhered to, including the need  for an inspection within the past seven years. Also,  another 
factor in its refusal of the claim  was that Legal and General found the flat area of the roof to 
be showing  signs of general  wear and tear, along  with the roof tiles appearing to be cracked  
in places. It said this indicated that the damage was not due to a one-off event  so the claim 
would be excluded according to the policy terms. 
Mrs N raised a complaint,  because she claimed  that she wasn't  ever made  aware of the 
endorsements contained in the policy. Overall, she thought the claim had been  handled  
unfairly, because Legal  and General kept asking her to provide information  even though it 
knew the claim would be unsuccessful, in light of her being unable  to provide certain 
evidence. Legal  and General maintained  that a fair decision  had been  made  on the claim. 
However, it did accept that unnecessary delays had been caused  in reaching its decision on 
the matter and its communication ought  to have been better. Therefore, it offered Mrs N £50 
compensation. 
Mrs N remained  unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into it and thought it was fair to decline the claim, based  on the policy  
endorsements. But having looked at the length of time it took to convey this decision to     
Mrs N and the impact this caused  she thought that Legal  and General should increase the 
level of compensation  to a total of £150. Legal and General agreed with this 
recommendation. 
Mrs N does not agree. She submits that Legal  and General took too long to take action on 
the claim.  As she sees  it, it ought  to have been made clear to her that the claim would be 
unsuccessful, when she explained that she had no evidence of the previous flat roof 
inspection. Finally, she remains unhappy  that Legal  and General  did not undertake  its own 
assessment of the roof before determining  it had suffered wear  and tear. 
Because Mrs N does not agree, the complaint has been escalated  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that it should be upheld in part. Ill explain why. 
The requirements of the endorsement  in question are not in dispute. Amongst other things, 
the flat portion of Mrs Ns roof had to be inspected at least  once every seven years.  And     
Mrs N needed to retain evidence of the inspection. Usually, an endorsement is an 
amendment to the terms of scope on the policy, based on what the insurer  is prepared to 
cover the risk of. In other words, an endorsement is a change  to the policy  that adjusts the 
cover in force. Indeed, based on Mrs Ns policy, an endorsement is defined  as a change in 
the terms and conditions of this insurance. 
Legal and General is within its rights  to add such endorsements and its my judgment  that 
the policy makes these obligations  reasonably clear.  I appreciate that Mrs N is confident that 
an inspection did take place on her roof previously. But, ultimately, insufficient evidence has 
been presented  to Legal and General and this is strictly  a requirement according to the 
policy terms. Legal and General were  not unfair to decline the claim for this reason, because  
this endorsement  formed part of the contract of insurance. 
Ref: DRN42904433Therefore, I cannot safely conclude that Legal and General has liability  to pay the claim, 
because this term of the contract has not been adhered to. For the avoidance of doubt, Im 
satisfied that further evidence   such as its own assessment of Mrs Ns roof  was therefore 
not necessary  to fairly decide the claim. 
Ive listened to a call recording of the conversation  that took place on 22 October  2018,  
between Mrs N and a member of Legal  and Generals claim-handling  staff. During this 
exchange, the advisor notified Mrs N of the flat roof endorsement and the need to observe 
its requirements. Mrs N acknowledged that she needed to obtain this information and agreed  
to provide it to the contact details that were shared. Im satisfied that during this 
conversation, Legal and General were  not made aware that this information  was not, or may 
not, be available.  Instead, an understanding was reached on what  needed  to be done in 
order for the claim to move forward. 
Consequently, as I see it, Mrs N was on notice at that point that certain evidence needed to 
be gathered to satisfy  the policy requirements   and she did not alert Legal and General that 
she would  be unable  to comply with this. Because  this was only a matter of days after she 
first reported  the claim, I cannot find that Legal and General failed to make Mrs N aware of 
what was required in a timely manner. 
Insurance generally covers uncertain risks and not inevitable or existing events. This is 
evident from this policy,  as the terms state that its intended to provide cover against  events  
that are sudden and unforeseen   not for damage that happens  gradually  over time, or that 
is caused by wear and tear. Based on the information provided by Mrs N, Legal and General 
thought that storm  weather mightve highlighted damage that had occurred gradually over a 
period of time. Taking this into account,  I recognise  why it questioned the conclusions of the 
cause of damage report, since  it doubted  whether the storm was the dominant  cause of the 
damage.
The contact  notes that Legal  and General  has provided suggest that this information  was 
received back from the roofing contractor on or around 19 March 2019. However, Mrs N 
asked for an update on 12 April 2019,  because she still hadnt heard from Legal and General 
to confirm if the claim had been  accepted. Legal  and General should  handle claims promptly 
and, in my opinion, this three to four week period leads me to conclude that it was not in 
keeping with this obligation. Rather,  I would expect Legal and General to have requested 
further information before Mrs N called for an update when she did, because there doesnt 
appear to be a satisfactory reason why it didnt ask her for this evidence sooner. Especially, 
when Mrs N had made  it aware of the need to move quickly with the claim.
As it turned out, Legal and General called Mrs N in mid-April 2019  to ask once more  whether 
she had the evidence applicable for the flat roof endorsement. I understand it was at this 
point that the decision  to refuse the claim was made. However, based on the documentary  
evidence, Im persuaded that this outcome shouldve been concluded earlier  than it was. 
Ref: DRN42904434Indeed, according  to its own admission in the claim notes  provided, Legal and General 
should not have been considering Mrs Ns claim until it had evidence that the endorsement  
had been abided by. And although  Mrs N initially indicated that she would gather this 
information  I seen no compelling  reason why Legal and General could not have  checked  
again, when this material was not forthcoming.  Not least  because  it reminded Mrs N that 
other information was missing, some two to three  months previously. In any event and in 
light of my findings, Im persuaded  that Legal  and General caused unnecessary delays  to 
Mrs Ns claim. 
It strikes me that Mrs N put effort into arranging the information that Legal and General 
requested, along  with spending time to contact it for updates on the claim.  Yet, this process  
looks to have been unduly prolonged. Whats  more, I recognise that she went  to the trouble 
of trying to mitigate the damage  of rainfall, by protecting  her home from water ingress 
allowed by the damaged  roof. Which,  similarly,  couldve been somewhat alleviated with the 
benefit of making  more  of an informed choice on the remedial work that was needed. With 
this in mind,  I can understand why Mrs N wouldve preferred to have been notified of the 
claims refusal at the earliest possible point in time. 
In view of this, Im persuaded that there  was impact  caused to Mrs N. In the circumstances, I 
find a total of £150 compensation to be fair and reasonable to reflect  this. It follows  that I 
therefore uphold  this element of the complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  the complaint in part and 
require Legal  and General  Insurance Limited  to:
pay Mrs N a total of £150 compensation. 
So, Legal  and General  should pay Mrs N a total of £150, if it hasnt already done so, within 
28 days of receiving notice from us of her acceptance of this decision, failing which  interest 
will start to accrue on this sum  or on any unpaid proportion   at the simple rate of 8% a 
year (less any tax properly deductible) until the date of payment.
Mrs N should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  and she wouldnt 
be able to take further action over these matters.  If, however, she rejects  the decision or 
doesnt reply on time, her legal rights will remain intact
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4290443