K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that BMW  Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In 2015, Mr D acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement  from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £34,987.60. Mr D was required to make an advance 
payment of £708.82,  47 monthly payments of £489.88 and there  was a final optional  
payment of £11,254.42 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr D had the right to terminate  the agreement  at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£17,493.80.
In 2018, Mr D chose  to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early.  
After Mr D handed the car back,  BMWFS charged  him a further £461.65  as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr D had an annual  mileage allowance  of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 8.7 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr D didnt think this charge was enforceable.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found  that the 
terms of the agreement were clear  around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being  
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary,  he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief, on termination  a consumer  is liable to pay at least half of the total  price of 
the agreement.  Total  price  is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase  agreement. It doesnt  include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means  that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability  for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ds agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
Ref: DRN46507592The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ds accrued liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £461.65.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount. 
Mr D disagreed. He said:
He only voluntary terminated his agreement to take advantage of what  a dealership  
says was a special  offer on [a new car].
He has never been charged for excess mileage  in the past.
There was plenty  of case  law where  it has been  found a finance company has no 
legal right to claim excess mileage charges from a customer.
Given the small sum involved and given  that he was a loyal and repeat customer,  it 
seems only fair that the charge should be waived.
Surely with [voluntary  termination] at 3 years, its impossible to know  the mileage at 
the end of the 4 year term, so the car would hold its value.
He also said that BMWFS  were  reporting  adverse information on his credit file for 
non-payment of the excess mileage charge and in all the circumstances this was unfair.
The investigator considered Mr Ds response to his view but wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore, the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some  of its here, Ive to base my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr D use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£11,254.42. While Mr D was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain  
conditions, such as maintaining and taking  care of the car and only driving  a maximum 
Ref: DRN46507593mileage each year and overall  throughout the lifetime of the agreement.  The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr D not meet those requirements.
Mr D exercised his right to voluntarily  terminate the agreement. In some  instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependent on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr D accepts  that he was required to pay at least £17,493.80 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  But he disputes  the excess mileage charge of £461.65 that has 
been added  on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Ds hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination  and in 
his case, that was £17,493.80.  Various sections of the agreement Mr D had with BMWFS 
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
I note that Mr D says there  is case law which supports his view that lenders arent legally 
entitled to charge for exceeding  a mileage allowance. However, Mr D hasnt referred  to any 
specific cases and Im not aware of any legal precedent that outright prohibits it. While  some 
consumers may have had success in raising  this issue  through the courts,  the court  will have 
considered the specific circumstances of those individual cases, including the specific terms 
of the agreements entered into and what that means  in relation to liability  under S99 and 
S100. 
This is because whether  or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to 
every case,  as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. In 
other words, what Ive to decide is, has the agreement been constructed  in a way as to allow  
the charging for excess mileage without contravening  what is set out in the CCA regarding  
voluntary termination? In Mr Ds specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination arent affected by the termination.  What this means is that Mr D is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ds hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr Ds agreement is worded clearly in setting  out when excess  mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights.  This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr D has paid at least half the total amount payable  under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Ref: DRN46507594Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr D. 
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr D is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Mr D says that BMWFS  is reporting  adverse information on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement. However,  as Mr D hasnt  paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated  
the agreement  early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either 
inaccurate, unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate Mr D might not have  been  charged  anything for excess  mileage on other 
agreements he voluntarily  terminated early, or which came to an end. But this in itself 
doesnt preclude BMWFS from charging  excess mileage in this case. Furthermore, Ive seen 
nothing that would lead me to conclude that BMWFS should  have  to waive  the excess 
mileage in this case  on the grounds  of how small the charge was, or simply because Mr D is 
a repeat and loyal customer  and that he decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement 
subject to this complaint  to take advantage of what a dealership says was a special offer on 
a new car.
Mr D says that surely with [voluntary  termination]  at 3 years, its impossible to know  the 
mileage at the end of the 4 year term, so the car would hold its value . 
But in my view what the mileage on the car might have been after 4 years,  and its value at 
this point in time, is irrelevant. This is because the car was returned by Mr D after 3 years 
and sold on by BMWFS after three years, not after 4 years.
So, given what I say above, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2021.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4650759