K820x#14complaint
Mr R is complaining that Admiral Insurance Company Limited says he owes  money after he 
cancelled his car insurance policy.
background
In September  2018 Mr R took out a car insurance policy  through Admiral. In November 2018 
he called  Admiral to say that he wasnt  using the car anymore and he wanted  to cancel the 
policy. Admiral  said that he had a direct  debit due to go out. So it said it would base  the 
premium refund on the assumption that the payment would go through. So it refunded  
£106.67 to him. But Mr Rs direct debit  was rejected by his bank, so it wasnt paid. So 
Admiral wrote to him to say that he owed it £156.69.
Mr R didnt think this was fair so he asked  this service to step in. Since then Admiral  has told 
us that it has waived its cancellation  fee and a further administration  charge.  So it says Mr R 
now only owes £102.19. Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought that Admiral 
was only charging  Mr R for the time he was insured.  And he thought Admiral was acting 
fairly. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I acknowledge Mr R says its unfair that Admiral  is asking  him to pay further  money towards 
the policy. But Admiral  is entitled to review  the terms of the policy  and charge him for the 
time Mr R had the insurance  policy.
Admiral has said that its only charged Mr R for the time he was insured.  Ive looked at this 
and I think Admiral has treated him fairly. His annual premium was £1,880.50. So he was 
effectively paying  £5.15 per day for the policy. He had the policy  for 60 days, so he owed  
£309.12 for the time he was insured. By the time the policy  was cancelled, Mr R had paid 
£206.93 (taking into account  the £106.67 refund Admiral gave him). So it was fair for Admiral  
to say Mr R still owes  it £102.19 for the policy.
I also note that under  the terms of the policy, like all insurance policies, Admiral was entitled 
to charge an administration charge to cancel  the policy. But Admiral has waived this. So I 
think it has treated Mr R very favourably in this respect. 
Ref: DRN42296502my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4229650