K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about the way Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) handled a claim
she made for an escape of water on her buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to L&G also includes  its agents.
background
In March 2018 Miss G contacted L&G to make  a claim. A pipe had burst in her loft, causing
substantial damage  to many of the upstairs rooms in her home. L&G accepted the claim;
Miss G was placed in alternative accommodation due to the extent of the damage.
Throughout the claim Miss G complained to L&G about its progress, and has received three
separate responses from L&G between June and September 2018. In its responses, L&G
accepted amongst other things that it hadnt  progressed the claim as quickly  as it should
have. Miss G has also faced issues with her alternative accommodation, and it was 
accepted she had to chase several times for updates. L&G offered a total of £450 in 
compensation across  its responses for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience  caused.
Our investigator noted L&G had accepted its service had been poor, but thought  it should
pay a total of £750 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience that it had caused
Miss G. She said alternative accommodation (AA) hadnt been  arranged quickly enough,
leaving Miss G in an uninhabitable property. She also said L&G hadnt explained the limits of
the AA cover, meaning it ran out quicker  than it should have done. She said L&G had initially
told Miss G the claim would be resolved within 12 weeks, but it had taken over eight months
to resolve.
Miss G said L&G had also reduced  her settlement amount by £1,000.00 as shed been
expected to pay a hotel  bill, which she didnt think was fair. So, she didnt accept what  our
investigator said.
L&G didnt agree to the increase in compensation. It also said the reason it took £1,041.05
off Miss Gs settlement was because it had paid her the money to pay her bill, but the bill
hadnt been paid. So, L&G said if it hadnt  have  taken this off the total it would have paid
twice for the accommodation costs.
As neither party agreed, the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October  2019.  It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree L&G should pay
£750 compensation for its poor handling of the claim. I also think L&G should reimburse
Miss G £1,041.05 for incorrectly deducting  that amount from her contents settlement. Ive
explained why below.
L&G has already  accepted it caused unnecessary delays  in handling the claim.  So, I dont
need to repeat them all here. The issues for me to decide are whether  £750 is enough for
the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience caused to Miss G, whether L&G should pay
more for AA costs and if L&G acted fairly  in deducting the £1,041.05 from Miss Gs contents
settlement.
Ref: DRN42975942The main  issue here is the AA. It seems there was a delay at the start of the claim in
arranging alternative  accommodation. L&G said it had tried to contact Miss G by phone  twice
and hadnt had a response, so its not responsible for any delay. But from the notes Ive
seen, Im not satisfied  L&G did enough to proactively sort the AA. It was aware the upstairs
of the property was severely water damaged and there were no electrics.  And it seems  AA
was only sorted out when  Miss G chased,  so I think L&G was responsible for that short
delay. And I think being forced to sleep in a wet house with no electrics caused Miss G
unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Miss G is unhappy with the cash settlement  amount L&G ultimately offered for the AA in
May 2018. She said had it not spent  excessive amounts on expensive hotel rooms at the
start, the AA settlement  she received would have  been higher. I dont accept L&Gs
assertion that it sourced the most  suitable hotel for Miss G at the outset. From its own
system notes and my research, it is clear there were cheaper hotels in closer  proximity to
Miss Gs house. Theres no evidence on file that Miss G pushed to stay in a particular hotel,
and I cant see she raised any concerns when she was moved into the cheaper  one. So, I
find L&G is at fault here.
Having looked  at everything I dont agree that the most appropriate thing for L&G to do was
cash settle the AA amount. L&G realised early  on that the AA limit would be reached quickly
given the high hotel rates it was paying.  It did look to provide Miss G a rental but because of
identification issues it wasnt possible. Miss G said she was never asked to provide any ID,
but I think its most likely  that she was based  on the notes  Ive seen. So, I accept it probably
wasnt feasible for L&G to source  a rental property for her. However, this claim should  have
taken 12 weeks to resolve were it not for avoidable delays caused by L&G.  So, had it
resolved the claim  in the timeframe  it should  have, AA wouldnt have been an issue  and
Miss G could  have stayed in a hotel and not exceeded  her limit.
It seems  to me L&G were  more concerned with cash settling  the AA amount than
progressing the claim to a timely finish. Its clear from the file that Miss G didnt  want  to take
a cash settlement amount; she is partially sighted  and was having to spend  time in and out
of hospital due to ill health. L&G were aware of this vulnerability and I think it should have
allowed her to stay in the hotel. And if her AA limit had been exhausted, it should have paid
in excess of the limit, given it was its fault the limit would be exceeded before the claim was
resolved.
However, once it did cash  settle  the AA, I cant see that Miss G has shown it cost her more
than £10,425.67 to sort her own arrangements. It seems she spent some of the time living
with a friend in order to save money. So even though I think  L&G should have done more  to
assist her, I dont think it needs to now increase the amount  offered for AA as I cant see that
Miss G has suffered a loss.
However, L&G has now confirmed that it made an error with the final cash settlement.  It had
incorrectly deducted £1,041.05 from the final amount paid to Miss G. It said that this had
been transferred  to Miss G previously to pay for a weeks  AA stay but the hotel hadnt  been
paid. L&G thought that Miss G had had the benefit  of the payment,  but it has now accepted
that this amount hadnt been  transferred  to her. Because of that, its reasonable to ask them
to pay her that now.
From the file I think L&G caused about  four months  of delays. It took three  months for it to
arrange drying equipment to be installed.  And this was facilitated by Miss G, who was asked
Ref: DRN42975943by L&G to chase  up the contractors as it was having  trouble booking  them  in. This isnt
something it should have expected Miss G to do given  her ill health, and I think caused her
unnecessary inconvenience.
Also, because of the delay in drying the property,  items that werent  initially  impacted by the
leak were damaged. Whilst L&G later resolved this as part of the contents claim, I think  it
caused unnecessary  distress to Miss G to have to deal with items that had become
damaged by mould. L&G had also caused delays in issuing some disturbance allowance
payments to Miss G to allow her and her family  to get an evening  meal.
Due to the delay in the claim and the issues surrounding  the AA, I think L&G should pay
£750 compensation. When considering  this amount,  Ive taken into account Miss Gs
vulnerability and how dealing with the unnecessary  delays has impacted her health.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision.
Miss G accepted the award suggested.  But she also mentioned that shed  had to throw away 
a bag of items that were  returned from storage, as the bag was infested with maggots. She 
said that shed  like an offer to be made  for those items too. 
L&G said that they had concerns that an earlier  email theyd sent to the investigator  in 
January 2019  hadnt been  made available to the ombudsman.  They  felt the compensation 
awarded was excessive and felt that their concerns had been dismissed without mention in 
the provisional decision.
Regarding the bag of items  that Miss G had mentioned, L&G said that theyd  require a list of 
the items  Miss G wanted to claim for along with costs  for each item before they could  
consider this.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
L&G have said that they their email and explanations provided in January 2019 have been 
dismissed. Within that email they gave their explanations as to why they thought the 
compensation award was excessive. Their reasons included:
The alternative accommodation;
Photo  identification;
Delays during the claim.
My provisional decision explains my reasons for awarding compensation of £750. I can 
assure L&G that their explanation and email  wasnt dismissed. It was considered along with 
all the other  information  provided by both parties. As my provisional decision mentions these 
aspects and explains why Ive suggested  the compensation amount I have, I wont go into 
more detail here.
Miss G wants to claim for the bag of infested items that were returned  from storage. For L&G 
to consider that, Miss G will need to provide them with a list of the items and their value. I 
think its reasonable for L&G to request this to allow that part of the claim to be considered.
Ref: DRN42975944my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. Legal & General Insurance  Limited must:
Pay Miss G £750 for the delays during the claim and the issues surrounding the 
alternative accommodation;
Pay Miss G £1,041.05 for incorrectly deducting this amount from her contents 
settlement. 8% simple  interest  should  be added to this amount from the date of the 
deduction (28 August  2018) to the date this amount is settled. *
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Legal & General Insurance  Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Miss G how much has been taken off. 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should give Miss G a tax deduction certificate  if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if applicable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4297594