K820x#14complaint
Ms Hs complaint is about the settlement offered in relation  to her claim under a removals 
insurance policy with The Baxendale  Insurance Company.
background
Ms H was moving abroad and arranged for her possessions to be shipped.  A television 
stand that was part of the shipment  was incorrectly disposed of by the shipping  company 
and so Ms H made a claim under her insurance policy for this. 
The stand was a branded  one that matched the television and it was only apparently 
available in the UK. Baxendale  therefore offered a cash in lieu settlement of £280.05 less the 
excess of £50, so Ms H could purchase a replacement herself. It says this was enough  to 
also pay the cost of delivery from the UK. Ms H refused this offer. Baxendale therefore 
offered to purchase  a replacement stand and have it shipped  from the UK to Ms H. Ms H 
didnt accept this offer either. Ms H says she is concerned shed have  a similar issue with the 
shipment, as she doesnt trust the companies  involved  to deliver  anything  safely  to her. And 
in any case, she also says the television stand  Baxendale  has found is not an exact  
replacement for her one. 
Ms H says she has had to buy a new television, as she was unable  to use the insured one 
without a stand,  and she wants reimbursement of this cost.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. Neither party was able to provide  a copy  of 
the relevant insurance policy and so she was unable to determine  the precise  terms setting 
out how Baxendale would meet a claim such as this. The only document provided to Ms H 
was a schedule  but this was out-of-date  and had the wrong  underwriters details on it. 
However, notwithstanding that the investigator  did not recommend the complaint be upheld,  
as she thought Baxendales offers were reasonable. She also said shed found several 
television stands available  on UK websites which would be reasonable, even if they were  not 
exact replacements. 
Ms H does not accept  the investigators  assessment.  She says, she has not been able to 
use the television without  the stand, as she cant mount it on the wall of her property. The 
insured stand was effectively part of the television. She is not prepared to accept a stand  
that is not an original  one for her television.  Her television is effectively damaged  and 
unusable, so she should get a new television. The generic  stand offered as a replacement  is 
not adequate and is also only available in the UK. Ms H says she does not trust that this 
would be shipped safely to her. 
Ms H says she has explored every possible avenue  to sort out the television and her 
concerns are not being taken seriously. She also questions  how it is possible to assess  the 
offer as fair and reasonable without the terms of the policy.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. In the 
meantime, Baxendales claims-handling  agents  have  sent a copy  of the correct  summary of 
insurance, which is exactly  the same as the one provided to Ms H but with Baxendale 
named as the underwriter.  I have  also viewed the full policy  document,  which  is available on 
the agents website. 
Ref: DRN41984742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H took out insurance to provide cover for the loss of or damage to the television while in 
transit. The policy was not sole by Baxendale and so I cant  address any problem with the 
information provided to Ms H at the time of the sale about the policy  terms. She was 
provided with a schedule of insurance which showed a different insurer  as providing the 
cover but the wording  of the schedule  is exactly the same as that issued with Baxendale 
shown as the underwriter. The schedule also told Ms H where she could find a full copy of 
the policy terms. I have  viewed these as well. 
The terms are similar  to most other  indemnity policies, which  are intended to put the insured 
party (Ms H) back in the position she would have  been in had an insured event not occurred; 
and are as the investigator expected. The insured  event in this case is the disposal of the 
television stand and so Baxendale has an obligation to put Ms H back  into the position shed 
been in had this not happened. 
The policy terms relevant  to Ms Hs complaint are as follows:  
We can choose one of the following options to settle Your Claim:
  Pay You a cash settlement to cover the cost of repairs;  or
  Arrange for repairs at Our cost; or 
 Pay You a cash settlement to reflect the damage  and any loss appearance;  
 In the event of a Total Loss, replace the damaged  item/Goods with an item/Goods of 
similar quality;  or 
 In the event of a Total Loss pay You a cash settlement  for the Goods subject to the Claim 
so You can replace them with item(s) of a similar quality.
As the television stand  was lost, it therefore should be replaced. The issue  is whether this 
also means the television should  be replaced. 
I understand the stand allows the television to sit on a unit or shelf and some  of the buttons 
to operate the television are on its base, so the stand is required to be able to use the 
television (or itd have  to be wall mounted which was not apparently an option). As stated 
Baxendale therefore has to put Ms H back in the position shed  have been  in had the stand  
not been disposed of. This can be achieved by providing a replacement  stand.  
While the exact  stand is apparently no longer available, Baxendale has offered a 
replacement that is the same  brand  but not the exact same  stand.  From the evidence 
available, my opinion  is that this would  be a reasonable  and adequate  replacement. There  is 
no evidence it would  not fit, is not compatible,  or is so fundamentally different in appearance  
as to make  it unacceptable. Baxendale offered to purchase this and have it delivered  to Ms 
H, or to make a cash in lieu payment instead. I think this is reasonable. 
A suitable replacement  is available  and the fact it would come  from the UK is of no detriment 
to Ms H, given Baxendale has offered to pay the shipping  costs. Obviously, it cannot be 
guaranteed thered be no problems with that shipping but this possible risk is not relevant to 
the decision whether  this is a fair offer. There is also a risk of damage in delivery within the 
country Ms H currently lives. If a problem arises, this would have to be dealt with then. The 
Ref: DRN41984743possibility of an issue doesnt mean  it is reasonable to require Baxendale  to pay for a new 
television instead.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint as The Baxendale Insurance  Company  has made a 
reasonable offer of settlement in full and final settlement of the complaint. If Ms H now 
wishes to accept that offer, she should confirm  her acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4198474