K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about issues shes experienced with an alarm system supplied  by 
ADT Fire and Security Plc (ADT). Shes also unhappy that shes  been asked to pay call out 
charges.
background
Mrs L was supplied with an alarm  system and entered into a hire agreement with ADT. Shes 
unhappy about the following issues:
Alarm system was mis-sold
Alarm system not linked to police
Alarm cant be heard externally
Asked to pay call out charges 
Following installation of the alarm system, Mrs L experienced a problem with one of the 
sensors. ADT arranged for an engineer to visit. No faults were found and Mrs L was charged 
for the call out. Following  this Mrs L was burgled  on two occasions. She complained to ADT 
that the alarm  system  isnt operating  as it should.
In its final response ADT said the engineers visit wasnt covered  by the service agreement 
and was therefore chargeable. It said the alarm  system hadnt been  mis-sold and that the 
package supplied to Mrs L was key holder response and that the external sounder was a 
chargeable extra which she hadnt purchased.
Mrs L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that based on the documents  which 
were signed  at the time he didnt think that the alarm system  had been  mis-sold. He also 
said that based on the engineers report following the call out, there  were  no faults found with 
the alarm  system so he was unable  to say that it wasnt working.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said the salesman had asked her to initial the key holder and police 
response. She felt that the documents were confusing and that it hadnt been made clear to 
her that she wouldnt have police response. Mrs L said she believed the sensor was faulty 
because when the police came to her property after the second burglary the alarm didnt go 
off until they came back downstairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale
Mrs L has said that the alarm system  was mis-sold  because it didnt include the features  the 
salesman led her to believe  would be included.
In order to find that the agreement was mis-sold, I would need to be satisfied that the 
salesman made an untrue  statement of fact which induced Mrs L to enter into the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN44040862Ive taken account of what  Mrs L has said about  the features  she expected. ADT dont  have 
any notes of the discussions between Mrs L and the salesman. I wasnt  present when Mrs L 
met the salesman so I cant be certain of what was discussed. In circumstances like this, I 
need to look at the documents  which were signed at the time and determine whats more 
likely to have been agreed.
Ive looked at the documents which Mrs L signed. Although I can see that shes initialled 
both key holder  response and police response  on the initial  paperwork,  the agreement  itself 
states that the package is key holder response  only. The agreement  also states that ADT 
are unable to contact the police if the alarm is activated. Although  this may not be what  
Mrs L intended or wanted, I think its clear from the agreement that the agreement is for key 
holder response  only. Even if the salesman  suggested that the package included police 
response, this representation was corrected  before  Mrs L signed  the agreement.
Mrs L has said that although she was aware that the alarm would ring from inside, she was 
told by the salesman that it would be heard outside the property. Mrs L has said that the 
alarm cant be heard from outside  because her neighbours didnt hear it. Whilst I dont doubt 
what Mrs L has said, there are a number of factors which might  affect  a persons ability  to 
hear an alarm, such as (amongst other things) other background noise and quality of 
hearing.
On the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that theres  been  a mis-sale.
Satisfactory quality
Mrs L has said that she had a problem with the sensor and that ADT arranged for an 
engineer and told her that there  would  be a call out charge if no fault was found. Mrs L has 
said that when  the engineer attended  he was overhead discussing with ADT that a sensor 
had dropped out of the system. Shes unhappy that despite this, the engineer reported that 
the system was in working order and that as a result  shes been charged  a call out fee. 
Mrs L also feels that the system isnt functioning correctly because  the alarm  doesnt  trigger 
as soon as someone  enters the house.
In relation to the engineers visit, Ive been unable  to listen to a recording of the relevant call 
because this isnt available. ADT has said that calls from engineers arent recorded. Ive 
looked at the engineers report and it states that there arent  any faults.  If the engineer had 
found a fault I wouldve expected him to record this. Monitoring records  provided by ADT 
show the alarm system to be functioning as expected. On balance, Im not persuaded that 
the engineer found a fault or that there  is a fault with the system. Because  of this I cant  say 
that ADT has acted unfairly by asking Mrs L to pay the call out charge.
I appreciate that Mrs L feels that the alarm isnt functioning correctly. Ive taken account of 
everything that shes said but without any evidence of a fault in the form of (for example) an 
engineers report  Im unable to safely conclude that the system is of unsatisfactory  quality.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ref: DRN44040863Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4404086