K820x#14Complaint
Ms W says that HSBC UK Bank  plc debited her account with £3,777.29 when she made a 
cash withdrawal, but that she only received £1,000.
Background
Ms W held a savings and other accounts  with HSBC. In February  2017  a bond matured, and 
the proceeds of just over £2,700 were transferred to her savings account. 
On 10 April 2017 Ms W made a cash withdrawal.  HSBC  says she asked to withdraw  the 
balance of her savings account  and it debited the account accordingly, handing Ms W 
£3,777.29 in cash in two envelopes. Ms W says however  that she only received one 
envelope and that, when  she checked it a couple  of weeks  later,  it contained only £1,000. 
HSBC looked  into things but was satisfied that Ms W had asked for, and had received, 
£3,777.29. Ms W was adamant she hadnt, however, and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered Ms Ws case but concluded, on balance,  that Ms W had 
requested and received the sum that HSBC said.      
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC debited Ms Ws account with £3,777.29, so the issue I have  to decide is relatively 
simple. Did Ms W receive that much  or some  other  sum?
Ms W has said that she thought she was only allowed to withdraw £1,000,  either because  
that was a daily cash withdrawal limit or because that was her account balance.  Thats  
clearly not correct though, since her balance was higher than that and because  the bank 
processed the larger withdrawal. 
Ive also seen a signed withdrawal slip for £3,777.29  and am satisfied the signature  on it is 
Ms Ws. In addition,  the cashier  who processed  the withdrawal has said she recognises Ms 
W and recalls  that she wanted  to withdraw  the entire  balance of her savings account. I 
appreciate that Ms Ws recollection may be different,  but I think  its most likely that she did, 
as the bank says,  ask for all the money  in the account. 
I therefore need to consider whether thats what she received or whether, as she says, she 
was given an envelope containing  only £1,000.     
The banks branch records show that the full amount of £3,777.29 was taken from the 
cashiers till. Had a different amount  been taken, the till would not have balanced when it 
was checked;  if only £1,000 had been taken from it, there  would have been  a difference  of 
£2,777.29. 
Since the full amount was taken  from the till, there are three possibilities. They  are: 
It was given  to Ms W. 
It was taken  out but only part of it was given to Ms W. 
Ref: DRN41232002Part of the money was taken out when Ms W was in the branch and the rest was 
removed later.  
On balance, I think the first of these is the most likely. The second and third possibilities 
would involve dishonesty  on the part of one or more branch staff, and theres simply no 
evidence to support  that. The risk of detection would have been very high, especially if Ms W 
had watched the money  being counted or checked it when she received it. (In fact, Ms W 
says she didnt check the money  until a couple of weeks later.)
HSBC obtained  a statement from the cashier who served Ms W. Her recollection about what 
happened has been clear.  Specifically, she recalls that Ms W wanted to withdraw the full 
balance of the account and was given the money  in two envelopes. Ms Ws recollection  has 
been less consistent, however. She initially said she didnt make any withdrawal, but then 
said she had but was only allowed to take £1,000.  
I have no reason to doubt Ms Ws honesty here, but I think  her recollection of what 
happened is unreliable. On balance  Im satisfied that she received the full amount of 
£3,777.29. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything  further to resolve 
Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
MS M to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4123200