K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd charged  too much  when  he cancelled the motor 
insurance policy hed bought through  it. Mr A is represented by his father, Mr A2.
background
In May 2018  Mr A2 spoke to one of Be Wisers advisors to set up a policy for Mr A. The 
advisor found a policy for £828.93. Mr A2 said hed buy it if the price could be reduced.  The 
advisor was able to get the price  down to £768.89  a discount of £60.04  - which Mr A2 
accepted. During  the call, the advisor said if the policy was cancelled, Be Wiser would 
charge a cancellation fee of £100  and the insurer  would charge for time on cover.  
Mr A had a provisional driving licence, so Mr A2 knew the policy  may have to be cancelled  
should Mr A pass his driving  test during the policys term. He told the advisor what  the 
situation was and asked if the free add-on policies would end on cancellation. The advisor 
said all cover would transfer  to the next policy if Mr A bought  one through  Be Wiser. 
Later in the call, the advisor  asked Mr A2 if he wanted him to read out Be Wisers terms of 
business. Mr A2 said he should just send them through the post.  The advisor said it was 
really important for Mr A2 to read through all the documents. He said hed send a text to him 
the next week to check that hed done so.
Mr A passed  his driving test in February  2019. He and Mr A2 werent happy with the quotes  
Be Wiser found  for a new policy. When he cancelled the original policy, Be Wiser charged 
for time on cover, plus its £100 cancellation charge. It also said Mr A had to pay a £74.97 
non-refundable arrangement fee. It later said it would waive  the £60.04 discount it had 
applied when the policy was set up (normally  added on cancellation).  So Mr A got a refund 
of £108.62. He thought  it should  have been  refunded £76.47 more. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr As complaint. He thought  Be Wiser should have told 
Mr A2 the initial discount of £60.04 would be reversed on cancellation.  But he noted  that it 
had waived that charge. He said Be Wiser had brought the £100 cancellation charge to
Mr A2s attention. And it had had set out the £74.97 non-refundable charge in its terms of 
business  which the advisor  had offered to read out. He thought  as Be Wiser had waived 
the £60.04 charge, there was a shortfall  of £14.93 due to Mr A. But he thought  that sum 
would have been incurred elsewhere, so he didnt think  Mr A had faced a financial loss.
Mr A2 remained  of the view that Mr A was due a further refund from Be Wiser. As there was 
no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review. I issued a provisional decision 
upholding the complaint  as follows:
When Mr A2 calculated the sum he thought should  be refunded on cancellation he deducted 
Be Wisers  £100  cancellation charge first. He then worked out the daily rate charged by the 
insurer. I dont think that was the right way to do the calculation. Be Wiser has confirmed that 
of the £768.93 Mr A2 paid, the insurer charged  £545.31 for 264 days  cover (£2.06 per day) 
and refunded just over £208. I think thats  correct, so the issue  is Be Wisers charges.
We think its fair for brokers  and insurers to make reasonable cancellation charges. We 
normally say a sum up to £75 is acceptable. I think Be Wisers charge is on the high side,  
but it made the charge  clear to Mr A2 before he bought the policy. He was happy  to accept 
it. I think the other charge Be Wiser made is more problematic.
Ref: DRN42470612Mr A2 asked  Be Wisers advisor how hed managed to offer a reduction  of £60.04 in the total 
charge for the policy. The advisor said Be Wiser  had taken  off the admin  charges. He didnt 
say a non-refundable charge of £74.97 would be payable on cancellation. Nor did he say the 
£60.04 taken off at the start was a temporary  broker discount that would be reversed  on 
cancellation. Had he done so, I dont think Mr A2 would have bought  the policy. I think the 
evidence shows that he was price-conscious. He only agreed to buy the policy  after the total 
price of doing so was reduced. 
Be Wisers  terms of business document set out the non-refundable charge. Its cancellation 
section says that any broker discounts  will be reversed on cancellation. Mr A2 was urged to 
read the terms of business after saying he didnt want the advisor to read them  out. It seems  
he may not have done so. But even if he did, he may not have realised that the reference to 
a broker discount  meant  the admin  charges that hed been told Be Wiser had absorbed. 
I think it would have  been easy for him to misunderstand what the non-refundable charge 
was as well. The wording  said that of the £768.89  hed paid, £753.93 was due to the insurer,  
and left a balance of £74.97. But the balance  between those sums is £14.96. I think  one of 
those figures may be slightly out, as the correct sum seems  to be £14.93. But regardless of 
that, I dont  think it was clear what Be Wiser  meant.  I think  from the start it intended to add to 
its charges on cancellation  the £60.04  it had originally  taken  off. That would mean the further  
sum retained  by Be Wiser  was £74.97.
I think a call recording Ive listened  to shows that the advisor knew the policy was highly 
likely to be cancelled. It depended  on whether  Mr A passed his driving  test within  the next 12 
months. So it was particularly important to be clear  about the cancellation  charges. Even 
after Mr A2 said he didnt  want Be Wisers terms and conditions  to be read out, the advisor 
told him about the £100 cancellation charge. As he didnt mention  anything  else connected 
to the cancellation, I think  it was reasonable  for Mr A2 to assume that would be the only 
broker charge made when  the policy was cancelled.  
As I dont think Be Wiser  did enough to bring  the non-refundable charge to Mr A2s attention 
at the point of sale  and even afterwards I dont think it was clear enough  I dont think  it 
should keep any part of the charge. So I think it should refund £14.93  to Mr A2, plus interest.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr A accepted  them. Be Wiser  
said its usual for a broker to charge for arranging a policy. It said it had encouraged Mr A to 
read the terms of business it sent him. Be Wiser said the advisor  wouldnt have known that 
Mr A2 would  need to cancel the policy within a year. It said many learner drivers take longer 
than that to pass their test. In Be Wisers view, it had made a reasonable offer to resolve 
Mr As complaint by not reversing the discount it applied at inception. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I still think  it should  be upheld.
In my view, there was a far greater likelihood of Mr As policy  having to be cancelled  within  a 
year than an average policy. Many young drivers pass their driving test within that period  
just as Mr A did - so cancelling  the learner policy was always  a strong possibility.  Mr A2 had 
made it clear  that he was price-conscious. So I think it was important that all the charges 
Ref: DRN42470613payable on cancellation  were made  clear  to him at the point of sale. I dont think they were  
and I dont think Mr A2 would have  bought  the policy if they had been. 
Be Wisers  advisor did offer to read the terms of business to Mr A2. He said it would take 
about 15 minutes, and Mr A2 declined. He was then urged to read the documents  Be Wiser 
sent to him, and I think he should  have done  so. But in my opinion, the wording of the terms 
of business and the figures supplied by Be Wiser  in the documents  werent  clear  enough. 
And in any event, he would only have seen  them after hed bought the policy.
I dont think it was crucial for Mr A2 to know about  most of the content of Be Wisers terms of 
business at the point  of sale. But its charges  were significant. The advisor made  sure he told 
Mr A2 about  the £100 cancellation charge  during the sales call, without Mr A2 having to ask 
about it. I think that was the right thing to do, but as the non-refundable  admin charge was 
also payable  on cancellation, I think it should have been highlighted as well. As it wasnt, 
Mr A2 was left with the impression that hed only be charged £100 on cancellation.
I think its reasonable for brokers to charge admin  fees, as Be Wiser has said, but only if the 
charges are made clear at the point of sale. So in the circumstances here, I dont  think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Be Wiser to retain the £14.93.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Be Wiser Insurance Services  Ltd to 
refund Mr A £14.93. It should add interest  at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
the initial refund to the date of settlement.
If Be Wiser  thinks  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4247061