K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004 alongside  a mortgage. Mr and Mrs G say The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
Co-op was trading as Britannia Building Society at the time. To keep things simple, Ive 
referred to Co-op  as the lender throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they were led to believe taking PPI would increase their chances of being 
approved for the mortgage. Co-op  says that PPI has never been a mortgage requirement. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said in the meeting. Where theres a 
disagreement, I have  to take into account  everything available  to me to determine what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  in the circumstances.  
Co-op has given  me a number of documents from the time of the sale. The mortgage  
application had a separate section for PPI. In this, it asked  if Mr and Mrs G already had 
cover in place and they selected no. It then asked if they wanted  to be contacted  to discuss 
PPI and they selected yes. They had the option of signing  a declaration  underneath  this to 
decline PPI, but they chose  not to. Looking at this, I think Co-op made it clear that Mr and 
Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
Co-op then completed  a demands and needs  statement with Mr and Mrs G to better 
understand their circumstances and what they needed. Following this, Co-op recommended 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr G only.  A separate PPI application form 
was completed which  Mr and Mrs G signed.  So I think they were  aware  they could amend 
the policy to suit their needs.
Co-op recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Co-op gave  Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  
Mr G had between 6 and 12 months  of sick pay available to him as well as minimal savings. 
But the policy couldve covered him for up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill to work, 
had an accident  or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been  in addition to his sick pay. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs G off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN49922812This means  Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Co-op has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Co-op  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Co-op has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4992281