K821x#15complaint
Miss R says that Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October  2019, a copy extract of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I was proposing 
to uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. YBS have  responded  and I have considered its further comments  but overall it 
doesnt change  the outcome of Miss Rs complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS say that it was made clear from the paperwork that PPI was optional  and that it was fair 
to expect that the PPI wouldve been  discussed.  I think its likely that PPI was discussed but 
the reason I am upholding this complaint is because Ive seen nothing to show  me that 
Miss R was asked if she wanted PPI or actively consented to taking the policy  at the time of 
sale. 
I acknowledge that Miss R was sent a PPI certificate and welcome letter  which explained  
how you could cancel  the policy. But this was sent to her after the policy was sold and 
doesnt show me that she agreed to take the policy.
So as no new evidence or arguments have  been provided, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision. It follows  that I uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Miss Rs complaint against  Yorkshire  Building  
Society and direct it pay the fair compensation as outlined in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional  decision
background
In 2008 Miss R applied for a mortgage during  a meeting  with a YBS advisor. At the same time she 
was sold a PPI policy. The policy wouldve  covered  her mortgage payments if she was unable to work 
due to accident  or sickness or lost her job.
Ref: DRN41860722Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because  he thought the policy wouldve 
provided a suitable benefit for Miss R. 
Miss R disagrees. She says although she knew she had PPI she was told that it came with the 
mortgage and didnt know it was optional.
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs complaint.
 
Im currently  considering upholding Miss Rs complaint.
YBS had to make it clear  to Miss R that PPI was optional  and make sure she agreed to buy the policy. 
YBS have provided us with a number of documents from the sale which it says supports that this was 
done. Miss R has told us that she understood she had PPI, but she was told that it came with the 
mortgage and she wasnt given a choice  about taking it.
And having looked at all the documentation  provided  by YBS I agree  that it is clear from this Miss R 
had PPI, but I havent seen anything  to show me that she was given a choice or agreed to take it. 
I can see on the mortgage  application there is a section that deals with the MORTGAGE  
REQUIREMENTS AND  INSURANCE NEEDS. Within this section it asks the customer how they 
would pay their mortgage if they were unable to work  and gives the option to tick for more  information  
on YBSs policy or ticking  to indicate theyre making their own arrangements. On Miss Rs form 
neither box has been ticked. So I cant say whether PPI was even discussed  with her when 
completing her mortgage application.
Ive also seen  a PPI illustration and statement of fact which  outlines the cost and benefit of PPI but all 
these documents show me is information about the policy  not that Miss R wanted or agreed to buy it 
or that it was even discussed with her, as I cant see that any of it has been signed  by Miss R.
So I cant say that Miss R agreed to take the policy  and it follows I think I will be upholding  her 
complaint.
what YBS should do to put things right
YBS should put Miss R in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI. The policy should 
be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and YBS should:
Pay Miss R the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
Ref: DRN41860723If Miss R made  a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, YBS can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must  give Miss R a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im considering  upholding Miss Rs complaint  against 
Yorkshire Building Society. If my decision  becomes  final I will direct it pay the fair compensation  as 
outlined above.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4186072