K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr O bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint because:
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mr O. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Mr O selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
him aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it.
 Egg didnt recommend the policy to Mr O so it didnt have to check if he needed it or 
whether it was suitable for him. 
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr O wouldve  been affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account what Mr O has said about  the likelihood  that he would ever claim on 
the policy. He says he has other financial  commitments which mean  he would always  be 
working  so he had no need for the policy.
Ive noted what  Mr O has said, but Im mindful that there  may be circumstances where he 
couldnt work  for example, if he was sick or had an accident. In those circumstances the 
policy couldve been used  to cover his credit  card repayments. As such, I think  the policy  
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr O in those circumstances. So this point doesnt 
change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN48187472my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4818747