K820x#14complaint
Ms M and Mr K complained that B2B Loans  & Mortgages Limited, trading as Y3S Loans, 
took too long to process their mortgage application. They  also complained that theyd been 
asked to provide  various documents and supporting evidence, and had incurred fees, only to 
be turned  down. 
Ms M and Mr K have  also complained about  the lender  which rejected their application. Ive 
considered that complaint in a separate decision, and this decision only relates  to Y3S 
Loans.
background
Ms M and her ex-husband had an interest only mortgage with another lender. This was due 
to end on 31 July 2018. Ms M and her new partner  Mr K wanted to re-mortgage with a 
different lender. They went to Y3S Loans  in mid-March, who put them in touch with a lender. 
The lender  gave a decision in principle  on 23 March.
The lender  reviewed Ms M and Mr Ks full application on 5 April, and told Y3S Loans  that it 
wanted more information. This included three months bank statements from Mr K. The 
lender also needed more  information about  Ms Ms divorce agreement,  because  the credit  
search it had done had come up with another mortgage in Ms Ms name.
Ms M sent a Declaration of Trust, setting  out the divorce arrangements.  Mr K sent three 
months bank statements.  The lender  received these on 11 April and had further queries 
about both issues.  Ms M obtained and sent a revised divorce  agreement, and Mr K sent 
further bank statements.
The lender  reviewed the documents.  It agreed it could add a condition to the mortgage offer 
about property  transfers relating to the divorce. But it couldnt  evidence Mr Ks employed 
income being credited to his bank  account. And some of his income  came  from abroad,  
which the lender  said it couldnt take into account.  So on 29 May, the lender rejected Ms M 
and Mr Ks application on affordability grounds, and refunded their valuation  fee.
Ms M and Mr K complained, both to Y3S Loans and to the lender. They were unhappy about 
the length of time it had taken the lender to reject their application - over two months after 
getting the decision in principle. They said theyd  lost two months when they could have 
looked elsewhere. Timescales were very tight when  they needed to pay off the interest-only 
mortgage on 31 July.
Ms M and Mr K also complained that theyd incurred £1,000 of legal fees for documents 
regarding Ms Ms ex-husband. And Ms M said shed had abusive phone calls from her ex-
husband.
Y3S Loans said it had submitted Ms M and Mr Ks application to the lender within  normal  
timescales. It said that the lender  had asked for evidence of Mr Ks income, and more 
information about Ms Ms divorce settlement. Y3S Loans said that it appreciated the process 
had turned out to be stressful, but it was beyond Y3S Loans  control.  It said that it had been  
a complex application, taking  into account  ownership of properties, the divorce settlement, 
and the nature of income.
Ms M and Mr K werent satisfied and wanted this service to investigate  further.
Ref: DRN47412872The adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. She said she couldnt see that Y3S Loans had 
contributed to any delay.  The lender had needed  to know that Ms M held an unencumbered  
title to the property  to be mortgaged. Y3S Loans had been aware that the application 
couldnt go forward without this being sorted out, and the lender had made its requests for 
more information  through  Y3S Loans. But the broker hadnt asked for anything  unnecessary. 
And two months  wasnt too long for a remortgage  application.
Ms M and Mr K had said that Y3S Loans  gave some  incorrect  information to the lender, 
including the source of Mr Ks income. The adjudicator said there was no evidence to 
support any such error  but even if an incorrect detail had been provided  and then 
corrected, it hadnt  held up the application. The lender had needed  more  information, and 
what had eventually led to the application being  declined was affordability.
Ms M and Mr K werent satisfied. Ms M said that Y3S Loans  had confused  the property 
addresses on the Declaration  of Trust. She gave the addresses  for four properties,  which  
she and her ex-husband had owned separately or together. Two of these properties had 
later been  sold. Ms M said the broker had confused these addresses, and had then said hed 
have to contact  her solicitor and ex-husband. She said this hadnt  been  necessary.
Ms M was also unhappy that they provided payslips on 7 April, but didnt get the decision 
until late May. She said shed suffered intense  emotional pressure and made  phone  calls 
every day.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Ms M and Mr K have also complained about the lender, but this 
decision only relates to their complaint against  Y3S Loans.
Ive first considered the timescales for Ms M and Mr Ks application. They  contacted Y3S 
Loans in mid-March, and the lender refused their application on 29 May. I find that this 
wasnt unreasonable. Its normal for mortgage applications to take around this time for a 
lender to reach a decision. So starting an application  in mid-March when they had a deadline 
of the end of July was inherently  risky.  And here, the lender needed two different sorts of 
additional information  clarity about the property ownership and divorce  settlement, and 
clarity about income. It was for the lender to decide what  it needed.  Ive seen no evidence  
that Y3S Loans failed  to pass on either the lenders requests  to Ms M and Mr K, or failed to 
pass information they supplied on to the lender. 
In response to the adjudicators view,  Ms M said that Y3S Loans  had confused the property 
addresses on the Declaration  of Trust. I havent  seen documentary  evidence to indicate  that 
Y3S Loans confused  the four addresses she lists. And it would be a lawyer who put together  
that sort of document, not the broker. But in any event, Ms M and Mr Ks original complaint 
about Y3S Loans wasnt that the broker  had got the first Declaration of Trust so wrong that 
they had to get the second  one completed. Their original complaint was about how long it 
took to get a mortgage decision,  and having to provide  more  information which cost them  
money. So these  are the issues  I can consider.  
Ref: DRN47412873In relation to the payslips, the lender  raised a number of queries. This decision relates to the 
actions of the broker, which acted as messenger  between the lender and Ms M and Mr K. 
Ive seen nothing  to indicate  the broker acted wrongly in relation to the payslips.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4741287