K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a further advance on 
their mortgage. They  applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy over the phone,  completing an 
application form afterwards. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £55.91 a month towards  Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim. The benefit was split equally 
between Mr and Mrs L. At the time, it cost £5 a month. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a care worker. He has told us he was entitled to sick pay, 
but he hasnt said how much.  Given his role I think its likely  he would have been entitled to 
no more than six months full sick pay. 
He wasnt entitled  to redundancy pay and he didnt have any other  means of repaying  the 
mortgage should he have been unable to work. He has said he was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
Mrs L was employed as a customer service  assistant. She has told us she was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying the mortgage  should she have 
been unable  to work. Mrs L has said she had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account opened in October 2001 
and closed in July 2006.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ls representatives  believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN49327062The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs L and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN49327063This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN49327064-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs L 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs L already  had a 
mortgage with Lloyds when they applied for a further advance. They  didnt have PPI with 
their original mortgage so its likely they knew  it wasnt  compulsory. They  have said that the 
PPI was just added as part of the package. But I can see that after the phone call in which  it 
was sold Mr and Mrs L filled out a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate, 
so I think they made an active  choice  to take it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds provided  advice during this sale. This means Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs L with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs L. It seems Mr and Mrs L cant remember  clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs L would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  they 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN49327065-Mr and Mrs L met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ls ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either of them  were not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for 
sick pay benefits Mr L says he would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ls employment or occupation  which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And Mr L hasnt told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  his ability to claim. Mrs L has told us she had 
high blood pressure before the sale but the policy  would  have still paid out after 24 
months if this had caused her to have significant time off work. And I dont think  Mrs 
L would have  thought  it likely shed need a long time off work for high blood pressure 
alone. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back  
problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for, it still provided  useful  cover given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs L be disabled  or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, including Mr Ls employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs L be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs L were  unable  to work  through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs L 
Ref: DRN49327066would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs L agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ls. Ive considered  these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs L. So I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs L suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs L would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
Ref: DRN49327067In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs L have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs L would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions  
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs L applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs L would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
likely they would have  raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have  found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs L would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ls 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their share of mortgage payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  condition that Mr and Mrs L knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy if they recurred 
within 24 months of the start date of the policy; 
Ref: DRN49327068The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs L werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs L says she had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it for the reasons Ive already explained.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs L wouldve been caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs L that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs L would still have thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs L be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs L were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN49327069Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs L found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Lloyds  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2002  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN493270610and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 December  2020.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932706