K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt act fairly or 
reasonably in 2015 by refusing to give him a fixed interest rate product for his mortgage. He 
wants compensation.
background
Mr R had a mortgage  with Halifax. He had a fixed interest mortgage product which ended in 
2015. When he tried to get a new product, Mr R said that he was told he couldnt  as his 
income and spending suggested that he couldnt  afford his mortgage. Mr R was on the 
Halifax Homeowner variable rate (HHVR) between 2015 and 2018. In 2018, Mr R applied 
for a fixed  interest rate product successfully.
Mr R complained about the failure to give him a fixed interest rate product in 2015. Halifax 
said that Mr R didnt  apply  for one in 2015.  It asked  Mr R to provide evidence  of a declined  
application in 2015.
Mr R complained to us. The investigators view was that there was no objective evidence 
that Mr R made an application  for a new product in 2015, and noted that no complaint was 
made at the time. He also pointed out that in 2015  Mr R applied for a payment holiday and 
the contact notes didnt show any application for a new product was made.
Mr R disagreed. He said that Halifax should  be required to offer him the best deal and he 
wanted to go to the European Court of Justice.  The investigator explained that lenders didnt 
have to take active steps to put consumers  onto new products as it was the borrowers 
responsibility to look for the most competitive  rate available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to make decisions on the basis of what  is more  likely than not to have happened.  The 
key question here is whether Mr R applied for a new product in 2015. Halifax  has produced 
the notes made at the time of calls between it and Mr R; I think its more likely than not that 
these notes are correct as they were made at the time before any complaint  was made. The 
notes show Mr R did call Halifax in 2015, but he didnt apply for a new product  he was 
given a payment  holiday. I think its unlikely a consumer would be able to get a payment 
holiday and apply for a mortgage  product at the same time. And if an application  had been 
made, I think  it wouldve  been in the notes. Its relevant to note that no complaint was made 
at the time by Mr R about the alleged  rejection  of his application.
I think its likely that there  was a discussion about affordability in 2015 as Mr R got a 
payment holiday  and then into arrears.  A lenders view about affordability can fairly change  
over time so theres nothing inherently unfair  about being able to get a product in 2018  which  
wasnt available earlier. And lenders  arent required to make  offers  to consumers to put them  
on the best available deal as the investigator  explained. But in any event I cant  find on the 
basis of the evidence available to me that Mr R applied for a product in 2015.
Ref: DRN41677632my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 9 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4167763