K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mr W aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. This is based on examples of application forms weve  seen from 
around the time he took out PPI  where  the customer wouldve had to tick a box to 
show they wanted it.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
any employment benefits hed have had, leaving those for other things.  And he had no 
other way of making repayments   the help of friends  and family  not being  guaranteed, 
and life and critical  illness  insurance paying out in different circumstances. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr W doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ws comments, including what hes said about being  self-
employed and that he wouldnt  have selected  PPI if given the choice.  But these points dont 
change my conclusion.  Being  self-employed wouldnt have made it any harder to make a 
claim  so that wouldnt have made it unsuitable for him. And from what  we know of how PPI 
was sold by Lloyds  at the time with the type of credit card Mr W had, I think  its more likely 
than not that Mr W selected it. Given how long ago the sale was, it may be that he simply 
doesnt recall doing  so  as he has told us he doesnt remember  how the PPI was sold. In 
reaching my decision, Im in no way questioning Mr Ws honesty in terms of what hes told 
us. But having  considered  the evidence, including what hes said,  Im just not persuaded the 
PPI was mis-sold in this instance.
Ref: DRN45413572my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541357