K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that the cash fund he was invested  in with Clerical  Medical  Financial 
Services Limited did not achieve an attractive return.
To compensate him for the poor performance Mr J wants Clerical Medical to pay him 
£10,000 and explain what went  wrong.
background
Mr J invested around  £118,500  in a personal pension  with Clerical Medical between  April 
2003 and May 2005. In April 2010  Mr J transferred his funds to another provider.
It appears that Mr Js funds were invested in a with profits fund and a cash  fund. This 
complaint only relates to the performance  of the cash fund.
Mr J says that the money he invested in Clerical  Medicals cash  fund did  not achieve the 
attractive return on short term deposit  instruments as promised. This appears to be because 
of incompetence,  negligence, and/or dishonesty by the fund managers.
Mr J accepts that interest rates fell during the period  he was invested with Clerical  Medical.  
But, he says the returns achieved by Clerical Medical do not reflect  market returns  for 
cash deposits as is evidenced by the returns offered at the time by NS&I.  Clerical Medical 
have not been transparent about the real reason for underperformance of the cash fund . 
Instead they give general waffle  about  the markets most of which is irrelevant to why they 
underachieved.
Mr J complained to Clerical Medical  in early 2018  about the performance of the cash fund he 
had been invested in. 
Clerical Medical did not uphold  his complaint. It explained that the aim of its cash  funds  is to 
 provide long-term  growth consistent with high levels of capital security by investing 
mainly in short-term securities.
It also explained that its cash funds  are classed as having a low risk profile  and, under 
normal circumstances, it is reasonable to assume  that the value will not fall. However,  there 
is no guarantee that the value will not drop, and we have not advertised the product as 
guaranteed.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Clerical Medicals  response and brought  his complaint  to this 
service.
Our adjudicator said he didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He said he had not 
seen anything that would support Mr Js claim of incompetence, negligence and/or 
dishonesty by the fund managers.
He noted that the cash fund had under performed its benchmark. And that the return  was 
lower than the interest rate offered  by NS&I for the time periods Mr J had referred  to. He 
agreed that, with the benefit  of hindsight, it appeared that the fund managers  could have  
invested the money under management  differently to achieve a higher return.  But he said 
this, in itself, didnt mean they had been  negligent  or incompetent.  He also noted that the 
fund hadnt offered any guaranteed rate of return.
Ref: DRN44940832Mr J remained  dissatisfied and asked  for his complaint  to be determined  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have very carefully considered everything  that Mr J has said and provided. Having done so 
I dont think Mr Js complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr J feels strongly that he should be compensated for the below benchmark  
performance of the cash fund he was invested in.
In his response to our adjudicator Mr J said:
To be clear I understand that under  performance versus benchmark  does not merit in itself a 
claim for compensation. Unexplained under performance illustrates that the entity  did not 
exhibit the appropriate transparency through the information provided  to investors .The 
necessary duty of care was not achieved. These factors do merit my claim for 
compensation.
I dont agree with Mr Js position. Clerical Medical  provided information on the performance 
of its funds to investors. I have not seen anything  to suggest that it tried to conceal or mis-
represent the performance of its cash fund. As Mr J has noted,  it provided benchmark data 
so that the performance of the fund could be compared to that of similar funds. Mr J says it 
should have explained the relevance of the benchmark data provided. If the relevance of this 
was unclear to Mr J he was free to have raised this with Clerical Medical at the time.
I am not aware of any requirement  on a fund manager to explain why a fund has not 
achieved performance  in-line with, or above its benchmark. Clearly  by the very nature of a 
benchmark some of the funds used to calculate it will have performance below the 
benchmark  and some will have achieved a return above the benchmark.
Mr J has also said he has asked Clerical Medical to explain  why the management  charge  
was 1%, given the simplicity of the underlying  investment.  The management charge was 
set out in the factsheets provided  to customers. I cant  reasonably say that Clerical Medical 
did anything wrong  by applying the stated management charge. If Mr J felt the charge was 
too high he could have moved  his pension to a lower  charging  provider at the time. 
I appreciate that Mr J feels the below benchmark  performance should be investigated by this 
service. Mr J has said he thinks the poor performance suggests negligence on the part of the 
fund manager  or Clerical  Medical. 
In particular he said;
Given that the fund was a low risk cash fund the under-achievement of the cumulative 
performance benchmark during my period of investment is so significant  it suggests 
incompetence and/or negligence if I assume  there  was no dishonesty  during a period when it 
appears that HBOS  lost its moral  compass  and didn't exhibit  a high standard  of corporate  
transparency and ethics.
It is always disappointing when an investment  does  not perform as well as hoped. But this, in 
itself, does not mean a business  has acted  incorrectly, or done  anything wrong. From the 
information I have  seen I am satisfied that Clerical  Medical provided information to investors  
Ref: DRN44940833about the management charges and performance of its cash fund. If Mr J had any queries 
about this information he was free to have raised  this at the time. 
This service determines complaints based on their individual merits. Our remit does  not 
include carrying out investigations into whether there may have  been  malpractice or 
negligence by a fund manager. If Mr J remains concerns that there  was malpractice he may 
wish to raise this with the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). That 
said, I have not seen anything that suggests  there was a lack of competence  or negligence 
on the part of Clerical Medical, or its fund managers.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4494083