K821x#15complaint
Miss X complains  that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited (L&G) failed to make 
a lump sum payment from her pension  in a timely manner.  
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2019.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Both Miss X and L&G have 
provided us with some comments. Although I am only summarising here what the parties 
have said, I have considered their entire  responses carefully before writing this decision.
Miss X has corrected some  information I summarised in my provisional decision. She has 
confirmed that she doesnt expect her income  to exceed her personal  tax allowance until 
around 2023. So she intends to make up that shortfall by taking lump sums from her L&G 
pension. But she says,  by missing out on a payment in tax year 2017/18 she has one fewer 
year to make those withdrawals.
L&G has accepted  my findings with regards to the trouble and upset that Miss X has been 
caused. And it has sent us a copy of the revised  P60 it has issued to Miss X confirming that 
the payment was made in the tax year 2018/19  after all.
But L&G doesnt  accept  my provisional  findings  with respect to the timing of the payment. It 
says that it was unable to value Miss Xs pension benefits until her 55th birthday. And since  
that was after the processing  cut-off date it wasnt able to make the payment to Miss X 
before the end of the tax year.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have not been 
persuaded that I should change my provisional  findings. But I do want  to add some  further 
comments on the additional information I have  received.
I thank Miss X for clarifying how her tax liability has been affected  by the late payment. And 
so I should confirm that she does not expect her income to exceed her personal allowance  
this year,  or indeed until 2023.  But Miss Xs pension benefits amounted  to around  £90,000.  
So it is clear to me that even if she earned no other income she wouldnt be able to withdraw 
the whole  of this sum before 2023 without incurring  some income tax liability. So I think my 
findings still stand  and that Miss X will incur some  additional tax liability due to the original 
payment not being made in the tax year 2017/18   albeit  that she might not incur that cost 
until sometime in the future.
Ref: DRN47515922My provisional decision explained why I think L&G should have  made the payment to Miss X 
in the tax year 2017/18. I entirely  accept  that L&G couldnt calculate the final value of 
Miss Xs pension benefits until her 55th birthday  though given  she was only asking to 
withdraw a very small portion of those benefits I dont think that would have caused too 
many problems. And I agree the payment  couldnt have been made until Miss X turned  55. 
But that still left a number of days for a payment to be made. And when it actually  paid 
Miss X L&G was able to make the payment  within just one or two working  days. So I still 
think it is reasonable to expect that to have  happened when Miss X made her original 
request.
So I dont  think L&G treated Miss X fairly when it failed  to make the payment she had 
requested before the end of the 2017/18 tax year. L&G needs to pay Miss X some 
compensation.
putting things right
Given this was the first payment L&G was making  to Miss X I think it likely  that it would have 
needed to deduct income  tax from it whether it was made before or after the end of the tax 
year. But by making the payment in April 2018 Miss X has been  denied the opportunity  to 
make use of her unused personal allowance for 2017/18. Based on her paying  income  tax at 
the basic rate, the tax she will need  to pay amounts to £750.
I think that the payment should  have  been  made before the end of the 2017/18 tax year. 
L&G should  pay Miss X the sum of £750 to compensate her for the additional tax that she 
will need  to pay.
And L&G should pay Miss X simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the £5,000  she 
withdrew from 4 April 2018 to when the payment was ultimately received by her on 
1 May 2018.  HM Revenue & Customs requires L&G to take off tax from this interest. L&G 
must give Miss X a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
It is disappointing that L&G further  compounded its error by issuing Miss X with an incorrect 
P60. I have  seen evidence that Miss X used the information on that document to revise her 
self-assessment reporting. She will now need to undertake additional work to correct that 
return once more. L&G should pay Miss X an additional sum of £250 to reflect  the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused  to her.
Ref: DRN47515923my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Xs complaint and direct  Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47515924EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss X complains  that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) failed to make a lump 
sum payment  from her pension in a timely manner. 
background
Miss X reached 55 years  of age on 29 March 2018. As a result she was eligible to take pension  
benefits that she held with L&G. In early March Miss X got in touch  with L&G to ask to take a lump 
sum payment  of £5,000 from her pension  on her 55th birthday. She told L&G that it was important to 
her for the payment  to be made before the end of the 2017/18 tax year on 5 April as she hadnt used 
all her personal income tax allowance for that year.
L&G advised  Miss X that its last day for processing  instructions, to ensure  that payments were  made 
before the end of the tax year, was 26 March. And so, since she wouldnt turn 55 until 29 March,  it 
would be unable to make her payment as required. But it sent Miss X the documentation  she needed 
to complete in order to authorise the payment. L&G received the completed paperwork, and so had 
everything it needed to put Miss Xs pension  into payment by 22 March. L&G confirmed to Miss X on 
26 March  that it had completed  checking her application but that it was too late for the payment to be 
made before the end of the tax year.
As it had warned her, L&G didnt make a payment to Miss X before the end of the tax year.  But in fact 
L&G initially failed to make  the payment to Miss X at all. Miss X chased the missing payment on 
27 April.  L&G then made the requested payment to Miss X the following day.
Miss X has said that 25% of the lump  sum she was paid was tax free. So the remaining £3,750 was 
liable to income  tax. If it had been received in tax year 2017/18 this would  have been covered  by her 
unused personal allowance. But since she expects to earn more than her personal allowance  in tax 
year 2018/19 she will need to pay income tax at 20% on that sum. So she has incurred an additional 
tax liability of £750.
When Miss X complained  to L&G it didnt think it had been wrong to not have made  the payment to 
her before the end of the tax year. But it did accept that the payment had been additionally delayed 
and offered to pay her interest  for the time of that delay.  And it offered to pay her an additional £100 
for the trouble  and upset shed been caused. Miss Xs complaint has been looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. He thought that what L&G had proposed to do here was fair. So he didnt recommend 
L&G needed  to do anything further.
Miss X didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
I think  the evidence that has been presented by both parties  makes it clear  that, by 22 March, Miss X 
had provided L&G with everything it needed  to put her pension into payment. And that L&G had 
checked and accepted Miss Xs instruction by 26 March. But I entirely accept  that L&G couldnt make  
any payment  to Miss X before she turned  55 on 29 March.
Ref: DRN47515925The end of the tax year places significant pressure  on a pensions processing team, as consumers  
both rush to make pension contributions and to take pension payments before the end of the period. 
And in 2018 those  pressures were increased due to the two non-working days of Easter falling on 
30 March  and 2 April.  I think  it is entirely reasonable  that a firm will place deadlines  for the receipt  of 
instructions some days before the end of the tax year. That allows  the firm to ensure that it meets its 
customers requests  in a timely manner. 
L&G had set its deadline for 2018 as being 26 March. So I would find it entirely reasonable that a 
processing request received by L&G on Miss Xs birthday, 29 March,  would not be completed before 
the end of the tax year. 
But L&G didnt receive the request from Miss X on 29 March. It received  it on 22 March, and by its 
processing deadline  of 26 March it had checked the instruction and confirmed that it was correct  and 
complete. As I said earlier  L&G couldnt  actually  make the payment on that date. But I think there was 
sufficient time for a payment  to be made on or shortly after Miss Xs birthday and received before the 
end of the tax year. L&G showed at the end of April, when responding to Miss Xs chasing  of the 
missing payment, that it could make  the payment within  just a few days.
So I dont currently think L&G treated  Miss X fairly  when it failed to make the payment she had 
requested before the end of the 2017/18 tax year. L&G needs to pay Miss X some compensation.
Whilst I have  been deciding this complaint L&G wrote to Miss X to provide her with a P60 for the tax 
year 2017/18.  That P60 showed the payment as having been  made in that year. So Miss X submitted 
a revised self-assessment  return  to HMRC. But later L&G confirmed that the P60 had been issued in 
error. And that, as Miss X had complained all along, the payment had been made in the following tax 
year. So Miss X is now waiting for L&G to issue her with some revised paperwork  and will need to 
make a further amendment to her self-assessment reporting.
Ref: DRN4751592