K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained on behalf  of company S about  the way Covea Insurance  plc dealt with 
a claim he made on Ss motor trade  insurance  policy after one of its vehicles was damaged. 
background
Mr S took out a motor trade policy through a broker. In July 2018  the car was damaged  while 
it was parked in a car park. Mr S reported this, presumably, to his broker who arranged  for 
an accident management company to deal with the claim. The accident management 
company told Covea it was dealing with the claim on the same day but a few weeks later it 
told Mr S it wouldnt continue  to do so. So hed have to make a claim through Covea. 
Covea asked Mr S for some documentation  in order to validate the claim and then arranged  
for the car to be inspected by an engineer. The car was then declared a total loss. Covea  
offered Mr S £700  for the pre-accident value of the car and deducted  the £250 excess  from 
that amount.  Covea  told Mr S the offer was low because the car was a previous total loss. 
Mr S didnt accept Coveas offer and said he didnt know that car was previously a total loss. 
Covea then said it had made a mistake about this and increased its offer to £1000  less the 
£250 excess. 
Mr S still didnt  agree. He said the car had cost him more than what Covea had offered. He 
also said he was losing  earnings which he wanted  Covea to compensate  him for. He said he 
had bought the car using  a credit card with a view to selling it shortly thereafter. He said he 
is now having to pay interest on the credit card which he wouldnt have had to do had he 
sold the car. But he accepted the £750 as an interim payment. 
The car was taken to Coveas  salvage  agents as Mr S initially said he wasnt  going to keep 
the salvage. But he later changed his mind. Covea returned the car to him and agreed  not to 
deduct the value of the salvage,  which  is what it would normally do.
Mr S was unhappy with Coveas handling of the claim and complained to us. In addition to 
his complaint about the valuation he also said that the policy  had been  mis-sold to him and 
also that some of the documents were lost while the car was at Coveas salvage agents. He 
said these included the V5C (registration document) and the service history. He also said the 
number plate was missing. 
Covea denied that its agents  lost these items but offered to consider the cost of replacing  
these if Mr S provided evidence in support  of this claim. Mr S didnt think this was enough  
and said the loss of the service history affected  the resale price of the car. And he also 
wanted Covea  to pay for his loss of earnings  which he valued at £2,145.
Our investigator thought Coveas total loss offer was fair. And she also thought  the offer in 
relation to getting replacement documents was fair. She said the policy didnt cover  loss of 
earnings so she didnt ask Covea to compensate Mr S for these. Mr S said the policy had 
been mis-sold to him because he wanted a policy that would cover loss of earnings. Our 
investigator explained this wasnt something she could  look at as part of this complaint as 
Covea hadnt  sold the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN48438592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
As our investigator correctly said, Covea didnt sell this policy  so I cant  consider Mr Ss 
mis-sale complaint as part of this complaint. 
The policy says that if the vehicle is declared a total loss, the most Covea will pay is the 
trade market  value. This is subject to the policy excess, which in this case is £250. The trade 
market value is defined  as the price  the insured would pay to replace the vehicle  with the 
intention of selling it later for a profit. The policy says the replacement  vehicle must be of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition. 
Our approach when  it comes to determining whether an insurer has offered a fair valuation is 
to look at the industry motor guides.  These guides  are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. Based on the guides, the £1,000  Covea offered was fair- in fact it 
appears to be higher  than the values  provided by the guides. 
Mr S complained that Covea marked the car as a total loss before it was inspected and this 
resulted in it initially offering him £700  for it; because it believed  the car was a previous total 
loss. Covea agrees  it made a mistake  when it said the car was previously a total loss. I see it 
increased its offer to £1,000 on the same day and I think this is fair. So I dont think  Mr S 
suffered as a result  of this error. As I said above the valuation of £1,000 seems fair and is 
based on the car not being  a previous total loss.  
Where a consumer wants to keep the salvage,  the insurer  is entitled to deduct  its value from 
the total loss payment. This is because the car belongs to the insurer  once the total loss has 
been paid. In this case Covea agreed  to give the car back  to Mr S without deducting the 
salvage. I think this was more than fair from Covea . 
Mr S said he did some  repairs to the car before it was involved in the accident and wants to 
be compensated for this loss. Mr Ss policy wouldnt  cover these expenses in these 
circumstances; as the car is a total loss. But, my understanding is that, the condition of the 
car wouldve been taken into consideration when it was inspected. For example a car that 
was in an average pre-accident condition would  attract a lower market  valuation than a car 
that was in a good condition. So even though Covea doesnt  have to pay for the pre-accident  
repairs I think its reasonable to assume that the work that was undertaken wouldve affected 
the pre-accident  value of the car and therefore  Coveas total loss offer. 
Mr S said he bought the car at auction with a view to selling it for a profit.  He said the fact 
that the car was damaged  meant  that he couldnt sell and had to pay interest  on the credit 
card he bought it with- which  wouldve been  paid off had he sold the car without  delay. 
Mr Ss policy  doesnt cover loss of earnings so I wont ask Covea to compensate him for this 
though I appreciate that he has found himself in is a very unfortunate situation;  especially as 
he is not to blame  for the damage to the car. Mr S said he wanted a policy that would cover  
loss of earnings but this is something  he will have to speak to his broker about. 
Mr S said Coveas salvage agent lost his documents and number plate. The salvage agent  
told Covea that it looked at photos of the car when  it was delivered to it and the number plate 
was missing then. Covea also said it didnt ask Mr S to put any of the documents in the car 
Ref: DRN48438593in any event but it has offered to consider the cost of replacing the documents  and the 
number plate. 
Ive listened to a number  of calls between  Mr S and Covea as well as calls between Covea 
and the broker  and Covea and the salvage agent. I see Covea  asked Mr S for documents  to 
validate the policy and these included  the V5C and also proof of trading. I understand Mr S 
had provided some  of these to the broker already but in any event provided them to Covea 
around the end of July 2018. This was before the car was collected by the salvage agent  
and Covea told Mr S it didnt need  any further  documents from him. So I cant see that 
Covea asked for any further documents at any other point. I note Mr S says he was asked to 
put the documents in the car but I cant see that this is something Covea asked him to do. 
I appreciate Mr S says the service history  will be hard to replace but as I dont think  Covea 
asked him to provide this at any point  I wont ask it to compensate  him for its loss. So overall  
I think Coveas offer in relation to this part of the claim is fair.
I appreciate Mr S was frustrated by the delay in getting his claim resolved. As I said above,  
an accident management company, which is separate to Covea, was dealing  with the claim 
initially. From what I can see, the accident management company was dealing  with the claim 
between 4 July 2018 and 19 July 2018.  And my understanding  is that Covea didnt know the 
accident management company had stopped dealing with the claim until Mr S rang to claim 
on his policy  on 19 July 2018. I appreciate the role of the two companies may not have been  
explained very well to Mr S and this may have added to his frustration. But as the accident  
management company  is separate  to Covea I cant hold Covea responsible  for this delay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im not upholding this complaint other than to say that the payments 
and offers Covea Insurance plc already made  to Mr S and company S are fair and 
reasonable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
company S, to accept or reject my decision before 18 March  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4843859