K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint against PFP Wealth Planning  LLP is that it invested his pension  and 
investment portfolio in assets  that presented a greater degree of risk than he had agreed to 
take. It also managed  the portfolio on a joint basis with his wifes  which  they hadnt agreed  
to. 
background
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint  to both parties on 29 June 2020. The 
background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally  
minded to uphold  it were  set out in that decision.  The provisional decision  is attached  and it 
forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider.
PFP Wealth said that it didnt agree with the provisional decision.  It said,  in summary,  that 
the crux of the matter was whether the portfolio was suitable for Mr R given the investment 
strategy implemented over time. It said Id stated in the provisional  decision that at the time 
of the initial  investment the portfolio met the stated requirement. But then said that although 
the general portfolio allocation was appropriate  there were  a number of individual holdings 
that carried with them appreciable risk.
It said a diversified investment portfolio would have  a blend of funds and assets that 
contribute different risk rates. And that the Central Fund of Canada (now  renamed Sprott 
Physical Gold and Silver) was a long established  and large fund, holding real assets  in the 
form of gold and silver.  It was possible to view such  an investment as speculative, but it 
could also be viewed  as defensive, acting  as a viable foil against equity market changes. 
It said although the bond allocation did incorporate a degree of foreign currency  exposure 
this was primarily as a risk control measure. It said the portfolio balance  shifted  after 
inception to take account of the investment managers views of changing conditions.  This 
was a time of high levels of uncertainty including dramatic events such as the Euro  and 
Greek debt crises. Gilts, supposedly  low-risk assets, lost 10% of their value between the 
summer of 2012 and early autumn 2013.  
It said it thought that the core portfolio met the requirements of a balanced approach  to 
investment risk throughout the period. Although  individual elements, looked at in isolation, 
could be viewed as carrying a lower or higher level of risk than "balanced"  would imply, its 
view was that the portfolio should  not be atomised in that manner.  It said the nature of a 
discretionary portfolio  was to contain diverse elements, not all of which would not succeed  all 
the time.
PFP Wealth said Mr R had ultimately  made a profit and the fact he could  have made a 
greater profit by following  a different  course of action was not, in its view, a valid yardstick to 
use. Within the universe of funds  and discretionary managers following a balanced approach  
one would expect  a significant  degree  of dispersion around a mean  return, and an individual 
managers placing on that curve  didnt necessarily imply that his or her approach was wrong.
Mr R said that he accepted the decision. 
Ref: DRN40317142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. 
In my provisional decision I said I thought the asset content of the portfolio was initially 
aligned to a balanced degree of risk. But I explained  that the evidence  clearly showed Mr R 
had agreed to a cautious to balanced  risk approach for the investments that PFP Wealth  
were advising  on. So I didnt think it was appropriate  even  initially.
I understand the points that PFP Wealth has made about the management of a diverse  
portfolio as set out above. But ultimately it appears  to acknowledge that the portfolio 
presented a balanced risk. And for the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision,  I think 
the portfolio presented a greater degree of risk than the cautious to balance  risk mandate  
that had been agreed  between Mr R and PFP Wealth. Therefore it wasnt suitable. And in 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable that Mr R is compensated if he would 
have received higher returns from a portfolio managed in line with the degree of risk hed 
wanted and agreed with PFP Wealth to take.
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined  in my provisional decision and above, my final decision 
is that I uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
I order that PFP Wealth Planning LLP calculates  and pays  compensation to Mr R on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing whats fair compensation,  my aim is to put Mr R as close to the position hed 
probably now be in if he hadnt been  given unsuitable advice. I think  Mr R would have 
invested differently.  I cant say precisely what he would have done differently. But Im 
satisfied what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances  and 
objectives when  he invested. 
what should  PFP do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, PFP Wealth  must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. By investment,  I mean the initial value of Mr Rs portfolio  after deduction of 
the original costs and establishment  charges following transfer  of the ISA and 
pension.  
PFP Wealth should also pay interest  as set out below. 
For the pension  
If theres a loss, PFP should pay such amount as may be required into Mr R's 
Ref: DRN40317143pension plan, allowing for any available tax relief  and/or costs,  to increase the 
pension plan value  by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  
If PFP is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr R's marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. I think  its likely Mr R will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the 
notional allowance should  equate  to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the 
current basic rate of tax. But if Mr R can take a tax free lump sum,  the notional  
allowance should  be applied to 75% of the total amount.
For the ISA - Pay the amount calculated directly to Mr R.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP & ISA transferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferredredress 
established  at 
end date 
should be 
increased by 
the growth rate 
achieved  on 
the amount 
transferred  into 
the new 
arrangement to 
the date of 
calculation.
Interest of 8% 
simple per year 
should be 
applied  from 28 
days after the 
date that Mr R 
provides  the 
information 
necessary to 
complete  the 
loss 
assessment.
Ref: DRN40317144Pay to Mr R £250 for the trouble and upset  caused to him as the portfolio wasnt  
invested in accordance with the agreed  strategy.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  PFP should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017 the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider Mr Rs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt  mean he would have invested  50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker  investment. But 
its a reasonable  compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  he could have 
obtained from investments suited  to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN40317145Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr Rs complaint against PFP Wealth Planning LLP is that it invested his pension  and investment 
portfolio in assets that presented a greater degree of risk than he had agreed to take. It also managed 
the portfolio on a joint basis  with his wifes  which they hadnt agreed to. 
background
Mr R and his wifes pensions,  plus some investments, were transferred to PFP in 2011. 
The suitability report sent to Mr R dated 19 April 2011 said, amongst other things:
We discussed your attitude to investment risk and it was clear to me that from your previous
investment experiences you have a good understanding  of this. We agreed your overall attitude  to 
risk as 'balanced' for the purposes  of our investment advice. However you will continue  to pursue a 
more aggressive approach with those  pensions  and investments  not being managed by PFP, based 
on the advice you are receiving from [another firm]. These recommendations are predominantly  
individual equities and as such are high risk in nature.
On this basis we agreed to pursue a strategy that could  adequately be described  as 'cautious to 
balanced' within the funds we advise on. This will complement  the other more aggressive holdings, to 
provide an overall 'balanced'  portfolio. We agreed this 'holistic' approach to your wealth was most 
appropriate.
Over the medium to long term we genuinely believe  that a portfolio with lower  volatility and an 
emphasis on capital preservation will outperform and deliver superior  returns. I am confident that the 
Core Portfolio is the most suitable investment approach  for you both, with an emphasis on capital 
preservation in the short term but the potential to create meaningful returns  ahead of cash  deposit 
rates and inflation.
The Core Portfolio can be viewed as a 'cautious to balanced' investment with capital
preservation of paramount importance. However  in the wider context of your overall  portfolio,
this will complement your other investments to give an overall 'balanced' approach.
PFP Wealth Planning  subsequently  agreed with the DFM that Mr and Mrs Rs funds  would be pooled 
together. And that the asset allocation would  reflect the agreed risk profile  overall  rather  than each 
individually. My understanding is that this resulted in each portfolio holding different assets; therefore 
each presented a different level of risk and had differing investment performance.  This hadnt been 
agreed with Mr and Mrs R who were unaware of this at the time.
Mr R complained to the firm and the matter  was subsequently referred  to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked into Mr Rs complaint  and felt it should be upheld. PFP thought  that Mr Rs pension itself 
should have been invested  in line with the balanced Core Portfolio but that it hadnt.  The adjudicator  
recommended PFP perform  a loss calculation  comparing the actual performance of Mr Rs plan with 
the notional performance had it been invested  in the Core Portfolio.
Initially PFP wasnt able to complete the calculation  and alternatives  were suggested. However 
ultimately PFP was able to carry out the loss calculation  and this showed that Mr Rs plan hadnt 
suffered a loss; it had actually made a gain as a result of the incorrect investment. PFP was still 
willing to pay the £250 inconvenience payment  the adjudicator had proposed but Mr R rejected  this.
Mr R said he didnt  agree with using  a comparison of the performance of the actual investments 
allocated to his plans to the overall performance of the Core Portfolio. He said this was because 
taking a joint portfolio approach hadnt been  agreed. And the Core  Portfolio hadnt matched his 
preferred balanced/cautious  investment approach.
Ref: DRN40317146my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think its in dispute  that Mr and Mrs R hadnt agreed for their portfolios  to be managed on a 
joint basis. So each  portfolio  should have  been  invested and managed in line with the risk basis 
agreed on.
What level of risk had been agreed?
The 19 April 2011 letter  clearly recorded that the funds should be managed in accordance  with a 
cautious to balanced degree of risk. This is also consistent with the letter dated 19 May 2014 which  
said, amongst  other things:
Over the time I have  advised you, you have had sole exposure  to the PFP  Core  Portfolio managed 
by [Name}. Whilst  [Name] style of investment  management  was in keeping with your cautious to 
balanced attitude to risk, performance has been disappointing through  the period you have invested.
Attitude to Risk   
Your overall attitude to risk remains balanced  for the purposes of our investment advice. However in 
view of your other pensions and investments, we agreed  to pursue a strategy  that could  adequately 
be described  as cautious  to balanced with the funds PFP Wealth Planning advises on.
I think  the evidence clearly  shows  that both parties understood and agreed Mr Rs funds  would be 
managed on a cautious  to balanced risk basis.
 
How were Mr Rs funds  actually invested?
The statement from December 2011 shows that Mr Rs portfolio was invested on the following  basis 
10% Cash
13% Fixed Interest   investment grade bonds with currency  hedge  high income 
27% Equity
35% Funds
15% Alternative Investments
In its final response PFP said that it was satisfied  that the combination of assets invested into at the 
time was suitable for a balanced risk investor. And having carefully  considered the actual 
investments/funds that Mr R was invested into, I also think they presented a balanced degree of risk. 
Mr R was invested  around 10% in cash  which  presented  less risk than the cautious/balanced hed 
agreed to take.  But then looking behind the general  asset classes and at the investments/funds 
themselves, the remaining funds presented either a cautious/balanced risk or above, with both the 
equity content and some  of the funds presenting appreciable risks  for example the FRM Sigma 
Fund, Central Fund of Canada and ACL Alternative fund. The objective of the fixed interest element  
was to provide  a high income; it invested  in investment grade bonds and had currency risk exposure. 
The other  fixed interest/bond  funds were also exposed to currency  risks. 
Overall, I think  the portfolio  was aligned  to a balanced degree of risk at the outset. And the 
correspondence from 2015 suggests the risk the portfolio presented had increased appreciably by 
that date.  So it wasnt invested in line with the cautious to balanced risk profile that had been agreed  
it presented a greater degree of risk.
Ref: DRN40317147PFP have performed a calculation to compare the performance of Mr Rs portfolio with the Core  
Portfolio to see if Mr R has lost out. But in my view the Core Portfolio also presented a higher degree 
of risk than the cautious/balanced that had been  agreed. So its not an appropriate  comparison.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  outlined  above, my provisional decision  is to uphold Mr Rs complaint.   
I intend  to order that PFP Wealth  Planning  LLP calculates and pays compensation to Mr R on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing whats fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close to the position  hed probably  
now be in if he hadnt been  given unsuitable advice. I think Mr R would  have invested differently. I 
cant say precisely  what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied what  Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should PFP do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, PFP must:
Compare the performance  of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual 
value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.  By investment, I mean  the 
initial value of Mr Rs portfolio after deduction  of the original costs and establishment  charges 
following transfer of the ISA and pension.  
PFP should also pay interest as set out below. 
For the pension
If theres a loss, PFP should pay such amount as may be required into Mr R's pension plan, 
allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase  the pension plan value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. 
If PFP is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that amount  
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr R's marginal rate of tax at retirement. I 
think its likely  Mr R will be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement,  so the notional allowance  
should equate  to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. But 
if Mr R can take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the 
total amount.
For the ISA
Pay the amount calculated directly to Mr R.
 Pay to Mr R £250  for the trouble and upset caused to him as the portfolio  wasnt invested in 
accordance with the agreed strategy.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. 
Ref: DRN40317148investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
SIPP & ISA transferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferredredress 
established at 
end date should 
be increased by 
the growth rate 
achieved on the 
amount  
transferred into 
the new 
arrangement to 
the date of 
calculation.
Interest of 8% 
simple per year 
should be 
applied from 28 
days after the 
date that Mr R 
provides the 
information  
necessary to 
complete  the 
loss assessment.
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, PFP should  use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth  with a small  risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017 the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Ref: DRN40317149I consider Mr Rs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take a small  
level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination  would reasonably put 
him into that position. It doesnt mean he would have invested 50% of his money  in a fixed  rate 
bond and 50% in some  kind of index  tracker  investment. But its a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return he could  have  obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4031714