K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that they were  given unsuitable investment advice by Virgin  Money 
plc.  
They are being  assisted by their independent  financial  adviser (IFA), Mr D.
background
In my provisional decision of 2 December 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. 
In summary  I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I was unable to safely  say that the 
bonds werent taken  out on a direct basis.  In other words,  on balance I didnt think 
they were sold with financial advice. 
It was likely Mr and Mrs T bought the policies  in response to seeing a Virgin 
representative. I noted that Mr and Mrs T had gone into branch to deal with an 
inheritance payment  thatd been paid into an account held in Mrs T and anothers 
name. They wanted to add Mr T to the account.    
Mr and Mrs T said they were asked what they were doing with the additional money 
and they said they wanted to secure it for old age, and asked if they should  see a 
financial adviser.
They accepted  that they were told no, and it was only necessary to see an adviser if 
they were taking a risk with their money.  
It seemed thereafter a follow up appointment was then set up to see a representative 
 rather than a financial adviser  who subsequently helped set up the bonds.
I was aware that Mr D said theyd have  to have walked into branch and asked 
specifically for the bonds (and not ask for advice) for it to be considered  a non-
advised sale. His scenario would certainly  qualify as a non-advised sale. But I wasnt 
convinced that every scenario was as clear  cut. 
In in this instance,  in conclusion, on balance I was satisfied these were  non-advised 
sales, and sufficient  policy documentation was provided that made reasonably clear 
the nature  of the bonds. 
Virgin responded and had no further  points to add. 
Mr D also responded  but didnt  agree with the provisional decision. He said he feels  enough 
time had been  wasted  and its clear the complaint  isnt getting anywhere. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the responses from the parties,  my conclusion  regarding 
the non-uphold,  remains  as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
Despite what Mr D says, I dont consider that any new points have been raised, other than 
those key points  already  made and considered by me in my provisional decision.  Ive 
considered all the points that I consider relevant  to my decision.  
Ref: DRN41016662my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold this complaint  
and I make no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41016663COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that they were given  unsuitable investment advice by Virgin Money  plc.  
They are being assisted  by their independent financial adviser (IFA), Mr D. 
background
In September 2013, Mr and Mrs T invested £15,760  into a number of Legal  and General Growth 
Deposit Bonds  (bonds) with Virgin.  
They had around £40,000 from an inheritance  payment held in a deposit account.  
In October 2019, the bonds matured, and Mr and Mrs T received a return  of around 6.5%.      
Virgin hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
Its unable to agree  that it has acted incorrectly  during  their applications  for the Legal  and 
General Growth bonds. 
The products were  sold on a non-advised  basis which means Mr and Mrs T wouldve had to 
make an informed  decision on whether  the products were suitable based on the information 
they wouldve been supplied in store.  
It confirmed that the representative responsible for arranging the bonds, is fully aware of the 
terms and conditions of the products in question and how important  it wouldve been  to cover  
the full product specification before opening  the accounts. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  it should be upheld - despite  having 
initially thought  the investment was unsuitable. In summary,  he said:
This wasnt a genuine  execution-only transaction sale. Therefore,  it was Virgins  
responsibility to ensure  that the recommendation was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mr T were  looking for a low risk or no risk investment and therefore  a Cash ISA 
wouldve been suitable. 
Mr and Mrs T wanted  to secure  their money for old age. Mrs T in hindsight feels  it wouldve 
been better in a cash ISA. 
Information received  from Virgin confirms that Mr T did an ISA wrap on part of the bond. 
The key features  document (KFD) confirmed that Mr and Mrs T could either close their bond,  
or take at least £500 at any time.  But if they chose to close the bond they could get back less 
than they invested. And how much they get back depends on the value of the bond  at the 
time, subject to calculations by the bond provider.  
The KFD also set out the factors that might affect  the claim and the date by which  the 
provider will determine the value   depending  on whether  Mr and Mrs T decided on a 
withdrawal or closure.  
Taking the above into account,  the investment met their needs.  Mr and Mrs T wanted 
something accessible, preferably ISA wrapped, and this is what they got.
Whilst the investment  carried a risk against inflation, it was guaranteed  to return at least  their 
capital. And they were left with a reasonable  amount  in cash reserves.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary he said:
Virgin has written to the investigator  with additional information   the investigator has said this 
is the equivalent  of an instant access account, but its not. If Mr and Mrs W decided  to take 
early withdrawal, theyd have been affected  by several issues including  cancellation of units 
within the plan and the FTSE 100 Index.
Ref: DRN41016664Its not right that there was no risk to capital as the bank couldve theoretically gone bust. 
The investigator said the account wasnt  genuinely  execution-only  therefore its advised  
and Mr and Mrs T have been tied into three identical contracts for six years, which  shouldnt 
have been arranged in the first place.
By way of compensation, Mr and Mrs T should  receive compensation in line with funds tied up 
for such a period. 
The investigators decision is sending a clear message that this sort of behaviour is 
acceptable from Virgin  and other financial  institutions like it. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions provisionally Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what Mr D says, Im not persuaded that Virgin 
has done anything wrong in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable  to safely say that the bonds werent  taken 
out on a direct basis.  In other words, I dont think they were sold with financial advice. 
Its likely  Mr and Mrs T bought  the policies  in response to seeing a Virgin representative.  I  note that 
Mr and Mrs T had gone  into branch to deal with an inheritance payment thatd  been paid into an 
account held in Mrs T and anothers name. They wanted to add Mr T to the account.   
Mr and Mrs T say they were  asked what they were  doing with the additional money and they said they 
wanted to secure it for old age, and asked if they should see a financial  adviser. 
They accept they were  told no, and it was only necessary to see an adviser if they were  taking a risk 
with their money. It seems thereafter a follow up appointment was then set up to see a representative 
 rather  than a financial adviser  who subsequently helped set up the bonds.
Im aware Mr D says theyd have to have walked into branch and asked specifically for the bonds (and 
not ask for advice) for it to be considered a non-advised sale.  His scenario would  certainly qualify as a 
non-advised sale.  But Im not sure that every scenario  is as clear  cut. 
I dont have any more information from that initial  meeting  at branch, but based on what Ive seen it 
would appear Virgin decided as they didnt  want to take a risk they didnt need to see a financial  
adviser  like a sifting process   a bit like non-advised life plans that are only geared towards  people  
over a certain age. Thereafter it seems  it was a matter  for them, after seeing the representative, 
whether they wanted to invest or not. 
Im aware that mis-selling  can take place  based on the nature of advertising and the representations 
contained within. But in this instance Im satisfied the documentation  supplied to Mr and Mrs T, before 
they accepted the bonds were clear,  fair and not misleading. 
I note the KFD confirmed  that Mr and Mrs T could  either  close their bond,  or take at least £500 at any 
time. But if they chose to close the bond they could  get back  less than they invested.  And how much 
they get back  would depend on the value of the bond at the time, subject to calculations by the bond 
provider. 
The KFD also set out the factors that might affect  the claim and the date by which  the provider  will 
determine the value  depending on whether Mr and Mrs T decided  on a withdrawal or closure.  
Ref: DRN41016665The onus was on Mr and Mrs T to make sure the bonds were suitable  for their circumstances. I note 
they wouldve been given cancellation rights, in case they changed their mind.  
I note theyre disappointed with the potential maturity values. But if they didnt read the documentation 
provided I dont think Virgin can be held responsible for that.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T complain  that the plan tied their money up for six years with no 
guarantee of any return except their capital. And they say the risk of the bonds werent explained to 
them, and they found out later that their funds  were  deposited  with a third party  company  that wasnt 
mentioned. All of this lends support to the conclusion that they werent advised and thats why the 
branch representative wouldnt have been under any obligation to advise them  on these points. 
I note the investigator says that in order  for this product to have been deemed suitable for Mr and Mrs 
T hed expect  consideration to have been given to the income tax implications, alternative products, 
and assessment of the risks of inflation and so on. But as this was a non-advised sale the onus was 
on them.  
This is probably also why Virgin  didnt  complete a fact find because it wasnt under an obligation  to 
establish Mr and Mrs Ts personal and financial circumstances. 
I note that Virgin is unable to provide an execution-only declaration. Its possible that it was completed 
and have been misplaced. Ive no reason to think they might have been deliberately hidden. Or 
because they werent seeing a financial adviser one wasnt necessary. 
But even the lack of a fact find or the existence of a declaration, wouldnt  prevent me from finding that 
advice was given if thats what I had thought. But on balance Im unable to say this was an advised 
sale.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T might not have heard  of the bonds before. But providing product 
specification  which  is what I think, is likely to have happened  in my opinion doesnt amount  to 
advice. 
I also note Mr and Mrs T have suggested that they were looking for ISAs and in hindsight feel they 
wouldve probably  been better  in a Cash ISA or something more  accessible as they were approaching 
retirement. And whether or not Mr and Mrs T had sufficient experience  is immaterial as the decision to 
invest  without financial  advice  was theirs.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T say that they were told the stocks and shares ISAs were  middle of the road 
and were most suitable  for them. Despite what  they,  Ive seen no evidence that supports what they 
say. 
Whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ts frustration Im unable to ask Virgin to do anything because I dont 
think it has done  anything  wrong. 
In conclusion, on balance  Im satisfied these  were  non-advised sales,  and sufficient  policy 
documentation was provided that made reasonably  clear the nature of the bonds. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submission, provisionally Im not minded to 
uphold this complaint. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4101666