K821x#15complaint
Ms I complains that Quidie Limited was irresponsible to lend to her. Ms I wants Quidie to 
refund the interest and charges that shes paid on the loans.
background
Ms I took out three loans  with Quidie between December 2017  and February  2018.  A 
summary of the loans  is below:
loan one for £100 on 7 December 2017,  repaid on 9 January 2018
loan two for £200 on 15 January  2018, repaid on 30 January 2018
loan two for £300 on 5 February  2018,  still outstanding
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Is complaint should be upheld  in part. In summary, 
he thought it was reasonable of Quidie to agree loan one. The adjudicator  thought that 
Quidie shouldnt have  lent loans two and three.
The adjudicator recommended that Quidie refund all interest  and charges that Ms I paid on 
loans two and three  with interest on the refund. And he said it should remove  all negative 
entries about those  loans  from Ms Is credit file.
Quidie disagreed with the adjudicators view but offered to waive  the outstanding interest on 
loans two and three.  And Quidie said it would allow Ms I to repay  the principal debt in a 
reasonable time.
Ms I wasnt  willing to accept the offer so the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms I could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN46155362the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to establish whether 
Ms I could sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Is complaint.
When Ms I asked  to borrow £100  in December 2017 Quidie didnt have any lending  history 
to consider. The repayment  amount represented a relatively small proportion  of Ms Is 
declared monthly income. I cant reasonably  say that Quidie was wrong to agree loan one.
Ms I then asked to borrow £1,000 shortly after repaying loan one. Although Quidie  agreed  to 
lend much less than this - £200  it also carried out some credit  checks.  I think  that the 
results shouldve reasonably prompted  Quidie to ask some  more questions  specifically 
about Ms Is other short term loans.  I also think that the fact that Ms I asked  to borrow 
substantially more from Quidie than it agreed to lend each time added  to the overall  picture 
of someone who might  be struggling with their finances.
If Quidie had asked  Ms I about  her other short  term lending commitments,  its likely that it 
wouldve discovered that she had at least four other open short  term loans at the time of 
asking for loan two.
Regardless of the amount that Ms I had to repay  on the other loans, I think  that the number 
of open short term loan accounts  indicated  that Ms I was experiencing pressure on her 
finances. I think that with better checks,  Quidie  wouldve seen that further lending was likely  
to be unsustainable.  So Im upholding Ms Is complaint  about  loans two and three.
I want to make it clear to Quidie  that Im not requiring it to refund  any interest that Ms I hasnt 
paid. Quidie only needs to refund interest  and charges that Ms I has paid on loans two and 
three, as well as writing off any unpaid  interest and charges on loan three. 
Ref: DRN46155363As Ms I had the benefit of the money  lent to her it seems fair that Quidie can use the refund 
to reduce any outstanding principal on loan three if it chooses.
putting things right  what Quidie needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms I paid on loans two and three;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan three;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan three 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Ms I**; and
remove all negative entries about loans two and three from Ms Is credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie  to take off tax from this interest. Quidie  must  give 
Ms I a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Quidie intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking these  steps Ms I still owes money  on loan three, I remind Quidie that it 
should treat her fairly  and sympathetically when trying to reach any agreement  on how to 
repay the outstanding principal due.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Is complaint in part and direct  Quidie  Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019. 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN4615536