K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about advice he received from an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect Limited. 
background
In 2015 Mr G took advice  about switching his pension funds. Mr G completed  a fact find with 
an appointed representative of Tenet in August 2015. The fact find process  included  an 
assessment of Mr Gs attitude  to investment risk. After some discussion with the advisor it 
was agreed he was a level five investor  on a scale of one to ten. The risk profile  initially 
suggested he was a level six investor  but this was revised down.
The advisor sent a suitability  letter to Mr G in December 2015. This letter  confirmed the 
discussion and the fact that no charges would arise for switching the funds. He 
recommended that Mr G switch his pension fund from the Newton Managed  Income Fund 
and the Investec Cautious Managed Fund into the Invesco High Income  Fund (Invesco) and 
the Artemis  UK Growth  Fund (Artemis).
Mr G complained in 2016. He said the funds recommended were invested  entirely  in shares  
and were too risky for him given his recorded  attitude to risk. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator at this service. He initially decided  that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr G responded to this view and made  additional comments  
about his personal  circumstances and enclosed investment fact sheets for the Invesco and 
Artemis funds. The adjudicator was minded to change his view after taking  this further 
evidence into account and so he issued a further view upholding the complaint.
Tenet said Mr G had used technical investment language in his submission which  was not 
consistent with his claim to be an investor with limited knowledge. It also stated Mr G was 
recorded as owning  a buy to let property  and single company shares which  it said 
demonstrated additional investment experience.
Tenet also said its advisor had used  a research tool that rated  both funds as five out of ten 
on a one to ten scale  which indicated that these funds were suitable for Mr Gs agreed 
attitude to investment risk - balanced.
The adjudicator responded and said that a balanced/medium level of risk would normally be 
reflected by investment in a mix of assets and not solely, or mainly,  invested in shares.  He  
didnt change his view that the recommended funds were unsuitable and not within  the level 
risk Mr G was willing or able to take.
Tenet didnt  agree and has asked for a final decision to be made, and the complaint has 
been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and broadly with his reasons.
Ref: DRN43706182The fact that Mr G was assessed as a medium risk rated investor  is not in dispute.  It is 
evident that there was a detailed discussion with the advisor around this, as it was agreed to 
lower Mr G to a level five after the questionnaire had initially  assessed  him as a level six 
investor, a higher risk assessment.  
Typically, a balanced fund would be invested with some diversity across a broad spread of 
assets, to include  shares,  bonds, cash and property. In this instance both the recommended  
funds were made up almost entirely  of shares.  I dont think this is disputed.
The fund factsheets  from show what the holdings are in the Invesco and Artemis 
investments. The Invesco fund has 100% exposure to shares,  and the Artemis fund was 
made up of 96% shares.
This does  not represent the level of diversification that I would expect  to see in funds that 
were recommended  to a balanced investor. I think the equity content  of both funds is too 
high for a balanced investor. The choice of investment meant that Mr Gs pension was 
exposed to a higher  level of risk than he should  have expected following his risk 
assessment. In effect, 98 per cent of the pension  funds were dependent  on equities  with the 
majority of those being UK equities. Im not satisfied that the recommendation was suitable.  
There was a lack of diversification, and his pension funds were exposed  to a higher degree  
of risk than Mr G ought to have been  advised  to take.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr G's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Tenet do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Tenet  must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Tenet should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Tenet  should  pay into Mr G's pension  plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Tenet is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
Ref: DRN43706183notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tenet  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been  taken off. Tenet  should  give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Perpetual 
High 
Income  and 
Artemis UK 
Growth 
fundsstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Tenet totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
Ref: DRN43706184The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr G's circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that TenetConnect Limited  should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear,  simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.  
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
 ..
Ref: DRN4370618