K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about advice from Greystone Financial Services  Limited (Greystone) to 
invest in unregulated investments Sycamore II Property  Development  (Sycamore) and top-
ups to Brandeaux  Student  Accommodation and Brandeaux Ground Rent Income (the 
Brandeaux funds), via his personal  pension plan (PPP).
Mr B has several other complaints with this service relating to investments which were held 
in his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and PPP. These are being  considered  
separately.
background
In a letter dated 2 July 2008 a Greystone adviser  (the adviser)  made  a number of 
recommendations to Mr B. Mr B had an A J Bell SIPP  and Transact PPP with an 
approximate total value of £650,000 and he was receiving income from both pensions. The 
adviser noted that both pension funds were  invested  primarily in GWM  Funds (the model  
portfolio) and as Mr B was taking  a substantial income from these plans,  it was crucial the 
monies were  invested in a manner that could maintain his level of income. 
The adviser said Greystone was changing the manager of its model portfolio and that he (the 
adviser) was reluctant to make recommendations to invest  further  in the model portfolio until 
this change was complete.  Instead,  he recommended  selling the majority of funds from the 
model portfolio,  noting that Mr B needed  investments  to support his yearly  withdrawal  rate of 
8.5% from his pension funds. Therefore, the adviser said he was making alternative 
investment recommendations. The adviser said the changes to Mr Bs investment portfolio 
represented a cautious approach and as such,  this matched his attitude  to risk.
Amongst other things, the adviser recommended that Mr B top-up two unregulated  collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS) that invested  in student property  Mr B had already bought 
these investments as part of separate advice he received from Greystone in 2007. In his 
letter (2 July 2008) the adviser  also recommended  that Mr B invest  in another  UCIS. 
Brandeaux funds   Transact PPP
The adviser recommended Mr B top-up  two UCIS  funds, namely, Brandeaux Student 
Accommodation and Brandeaux  Ground Rent. At the time of the advice in July 2008, Mr B 
already held nearly £25,000 in each  of the Brandeaux funds both held within his Transact 
PPP. The later recommendation was that he increase his holdings  by a total of £28,000 or 
£14,000 in each UCIS fund. The adviser  noted  that Mr B was already familiar with the 
Brandeaux funds  and the areas in which they invested. Fact sheets outlining these funds 
noted the following:
These were both UCIS funds investing  in student accommodation, ground rents  and 
residential properties;
The anticipated yearly  returns were expected to be 8% to 10%;
They carried an initial  and yearly charge of 1.5%;
Brandeaux Ground  Rents  main  objective was to deliver  consistent  annualised  
positive returns of 8% to 10% whilst  maintaining a profile  of low volatility  
performance; 
The fact sheet also said its properties are focused on freeholds producing an 
increasing value  towards revision  date which provides the backbone of the low 
Ref: DRN48539002volatility and consistent  performance.
In a letter dated 23 November 2013, Mr B told Greystone that In the case of Brandeaux, [he 
had] significant  difficulties in extracting funds to finance pension payments with severe 
constraints on liquidity of funds which  may take years  to be released  if ever.
Sycamore II Property UCIS  Transact  PPP
In the same  recommendation letter dated 2 July 2008, Mr B was advised  to invest  in 
Sycamore  this was also a UCIS.  In summary  the appendix outlining the main benefits  and 
risks of Sycamore made  the following points: 
It was seeking  to raise  £10 million in participations  and the minimum holding  was 25 
Participations in the fund i.e. £25.000;
It offered  the opportunity to invest in a number of projects in the UK compromising 
residential developments with planning  permission  already in place and land sites 
without planning  permission but with development potential;
Gearing at 75% of all project costs  may be obtained on residential development 
projects purchased  with planning  permission in place;
It was a limited partnership  this meant  the individual investors would be deemed to 
undertake the projects personally;
The life of the partnership was seven  years;
Projected net total returns  of 24.5% (though not guaranteed).
In summary,  some  of the risks highlighted  to Mr B were as follows:
There was no established secondary  market for the sale of participations in the fund 
so its likely it would be difficult for investors  to obtain information relating to the value 
of their investments  or to sell their investments;
Investors should only consider an investment if they are willing to potentially  defer  all 
returns for up to ten years;
Any future downturn in the UK housing  and land markets could have a material effect 
on the value of property and land;
The fund invested in projects. Such interests in projects were  viewed  as a higher risk 
investment and of a less liquid nature than some other types of assets and that, in 
particular, certain investments in land sites without planning permission are likely 
to be speculative in nature  and so attract a greater degree of risk; 
Investment in the fund carried a substantial risk and investors could lose the whole of 
their investment;
The fund was an unregulated collective investment  scheme (UCIS) suitable only for 
experienced investors and the protections normally offered  by the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and compensation under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme did not apply; 
The fund, the Asset Manager and the General Partner are newly  organised and had 
no operating history;
The value of the investment could go up as well as down.
Mr Bs original  investment  was £25,000 and in his letter from November 2013, he said this 
had dropped in value  to £23,000.
Other recommendations
Ref: DRN48539003The adviser made further alternative asset recommendations as part of restructuring Mr Bs 
pension funds holdings  including:
ARM Assured Income  plan  this was a Luxembourg based special purpose vehicle 
that was said to be listed on the Irish stock exchange and invested  in cash, near-
cash and American  life insurance  policies; 
Quadris fund  this invested in socially responsible investments and mostly in the 
most highly valued timber of all  teak. It was further noted that whilst the fund 
makes provision to buy back shares  under normal trading conditions, it is not a listed 
security and that as is the case when selling  land or property in the UK, under  some 
circumstances it may be difficult to find a buyer and agree a satisfactory price for 
your shares..
Personal Circumstances
Mr Bs personal circumstances werent  noted in this recommendation  letter  dated 2 July 
2008, but his financial  position  was recorded  a few months later in December 2008  by his 
new advisers as follows  (excluding the value of his pension funds):
-He was in his early  60s and was married with no dependent  children;
-He was retired with a total joint annual  pension income of around £45,000;
-He had emergency funds of £20,000;
-He jointly  owned his home  which was valued  at around £500,000 and also owned a 
holiday flat valued in the region of £130,000.  
Events leading to Mr Bs complaint
On 7 July 2008 Mr B emailed the adviser  expressing  concerns about a recent meeting 
saying he and his wife found the meeting a depressing experience particularly  the extent of 
our losses  from what we were advised  was a cautious and risk averse approach  to 
managing my pension. He went on to say that I require a low risk strategy  and would ask 
you to provide your risk rating  for each of the funds recommended. And after reading a 
recent article  in a newspaper he (Mr B) questioned why the adviser  hadnt  been advising him 
to invest in bonds, notably, Old Mutual  Corporate Bonds.
By 26 August 2008 Mr B began to query  how long his money would be tied up. On 
16 September he asked  Greystone not to proceed with either ARM or Sycamore. On 
clarifying that Sycamore had, in fact, already completed (on 12 August), it was agreed that 
neither the ARM  or Quadris  investments  would  be made.
The adviser wrote to Mr B on 31 October  2008  recommending he cashed in further funds 
from the model portfolio in favour of a Luxembourg bond investment, more  Brandeaux and a 
Full Circle investment. Mr B didnt  respond and the following month  appointed his new 
adviser. On 9 December  2008 he told the (Greystone) adviser that he was terminating  the 
relationship because the type of advice provided no longer matches my circumstances and 
the level of charges and commissions are not affordable.
In a recommendation letter dated  11 December 2008, Mr Bs new adviser  noted that the A J 
Bell SIPP and Transact PPP were valued  at around £287,000 each with a total pension fund 
of £574,000. The new adviser  categorised Mr Bs attitude to risk as cautious  to moderate, 
which he said meant an investor who is prepared to accept  some  risks in return for superior 
Ref: DRN48539004investment returns. The new adviser said that Mr Bs investment portfolio was worth around 
£609,000 - £574,000 of this amount was investments  in Mr Bs pension funds. The asset 
allocation for Mr Bs investments were listed by the new adviser as follows:
Cash  34%
Property  22%
Equities  39%
Other  5%
The new adviser  noted that even  though  Mr B had reduced his direct market exposure  over 
the last few months, his portfolio still remained linked  to specific assets, notably, property 
and equities. The new adviser said these assets had suffered considerable losses  over the 
last eighteen months  and that the outlook  for these asset classes remained volatile for the 
next year or two at least.
 
Mr B emailed the (Greystone) adviser on 6 February  2009  to say he and his wife were very 
scared about their existing investments, particularly their property-based funds. He gave  
that as the reason for switching advisers.  In March and October that year,  the Transact PPP 
was transferred into the A J Bell SIPP. This included in specie transfers  of the Brandeaux 
and Sycamore funds, which were illiquid. Ultimately, Mr B complained to Greystone about 
his UCIS  investments  and then brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. In brief, he concluded  that given the number of 
risks involved in UCIS investments, Greystones recommendations didnt  meet Mr Bs 
attitude to risk and therefore, were unsuitable.  Along  with financial compensation, our 
adjudicator awarded  Mr B £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
Greystone disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
Mr B was made aware,  in meetings and in written advice, that there were risks 
associated with the search for greater potential  rewards;
Given Mr B held a medium or balanced attitude to risk (as is confirmed in the 
contemporaneous documents on file), the investment in a UCIS  was suitable to be 
held as part of a diversified portfolio  his attitude  to risk was consistent with his 
financial objectives of focusing on retirement/pension planning,  seeking  potential 
capital growth and diversifying his overall  portfolio;
In order to seek potential higher  than average  returns, as Mr B wanted,  investors  
must accept a higher than average  degree of risk and he was prepared to do this;
Mr B was a sophisticated  investor, engaged and experienced in this arena as well as 
being a successful businessman;
Mr B reviewed  and understood the suitability  report and product literature provided to 
him at the time, which highlighted the nature  and risks and he reviewed and 
understood the product literature  provided to him. He signed the Risk Warning 
Notice which expressly confirmed  hed understood the risks;
An investment  should  not be viewed in isolation  it was part of a balanced portfolio 
for an investor with a medium  or balanced  attitude to risk;
The fact that a product is unregulated does not of itself make it an unsuitable 
investment;
It was not the advice  but the unprecedented and unforeseeable fall in the commercial 
property market which caused the fall in value of the fund  the investment was 
Ref: DRN48539005considered appropriate for the time and should  only be viewed in light of the 
information and practices  of the time;
The suggested redress based on achieving returns to reflect  50% FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index and 50% average return from fixed  rate bonds, 
is not credible in Mr Bs case;
The £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  isnt fair, as when put 
together with the other awards in his other  complaints,  Mr B will be over 
compensated;
There is no basis on for this complaint to be split from Mr Bs other  complaints.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the following reasons:
Before I explain my reasoning, whilst I appreciate the strength of feelings on both sides, it 
isnt my role to address all the questions and issues that each party has raised. My role is to 
concentrate on the issues directly  relevant  to the outcome of the case and to make a 
decision based on what I think are the central  issues. So whilst Ive taken into account 
everything thats been submitted, I may not comment on every  single  point thats been 
raised. 
Mr Bs attitude to risk
Mr Bs attitude to risk at the time of the advice was assessed by the adviser as cautious. 
The adviser didnt  specifically say what this meant other than to say that the portfolio was 
designed to match Mr Bs attitude to risk. Greystone said in their submissions to this service 
that Mr B had a medium and balanced attitude  to risk. This meant in order  to seek  
potential higher than average  returns,  he accepted a higher than average degree of risk. But 
this assessment seems  contradictory to the assessment made by Greystone at the time 
(July 2008) and at other times.
For example, in April 2002 Greystone assessed Mr B as having  a low/ medium profile   low 
being someone who would want to invest in 100%  with profits investment and medium  being 
someone whod invest in 50% with profits and 50% managed funds. At that time, Mr Bs 
recorded number  one priority in terms of his finances, was the security of his pension. It was 
also noted that he didnt mind a reasonable  degree  of risk in the hope his benefits  could be 
higher in retirement. 
I accept the assessment from 2002 was some  years prior to the advice given in 2008,  but I 
cant see that Mr Bs priority  the security  of his pension  changed  so significantly. I can 
see the email exchanges  between Mr B and the adviser soon after the advice in 2008,  would 
suggest Mr B was very much still of the view that the security of his pension was a priority for 
him. Further, he was now using his pension to provide an income as well as capital growth, 
an objective that would usually result  in some lowering of risk and was not an objective in 
2002.
There is also some suggestion that Mr B needed  to take more risk to support the level of 
withdrawals he was making from his pension. In my view, Mr B would have been  better  
Ref: DRN48539006advised that his attitude to risk was unlikely to support that level of withdrawals. And he 
should be prepared  to accept some depletion  of the capital,  as the outcome of taking risks 
he couldnt afford to take could actually be worse  in terms of unacceptable losses  to the 
fund. In any event, a consumers attitude to risk shouldnt simply be raised in order to 
correspond with the returns they desire.  Almost any investor would prefer  the investment 
producing the highest return if risk wasnt part of the equation, but of course theres  a direct 
relationship between risk and potential return
 
I can see in December 2008 that Mr Bs new adviser  categorised his risk profile as cautious 
to moderate. This was described as someone who was prepared to accept some  risk in 
return for a superior investment returns Add to Mr Bs wish to reverse  the Sycamore 
transaction within two months of being  advised to invest in the fund, I think  its clear  that his 
attitude to risk was not that of someone who was willing to take a higher than average 
degree of risk with his pension funds. 
Further, whilst Mr B did have some  assets outside his SIPP  (and leaving aside his home),  
these were relatively modest  in comparison to his pension fund. I dont think  his wider 
financial position meant he could afford to take a higher degree of risk with his pension fund. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied that whilst Mr B may have been willing to take some risks with 
his capital to achieve the returns needed to support him in his retirement, I dont think he 
was willing  to take a higher than average  degree  of risk to achieve this. So I think  Mr B was 
a low to medium in terms of risk profile.  And that he was at the lower end of medium.
The recommendation  was it suitable?
In terms of the recommendation itself, Sycamore  and Brandeaux funds were highly 
leveraged funds which meant that whilst returns could be enhanced if the assets increased 
in value, losses could  be magnified too. These  UCIS funds were unusual  and specialist  
investments. They were concentrated and highly  geared, subject to liquidity risks with no 
established secondary market. It was dependent  on the commercial property market  either 
in terms of resale values  or rental yields   not suffering a downturn.  There  were  risks 
investors wouldnt get back the amount  theyd  invested and could lose all of it. And in the 
case of Sycamore, as it was intending to invest in property that hadnt yet been developed, 
there was also counterparty risks, created by the companies developing the sites.
Greystone say these  investments provided  balance to Mr Bs portfolio, so it met his risk 
profile, which it categorised as cautious.  But looking at the overall portfolio  even  when 
excluding the other  property  investments  which are the subject matter  of separate  
complaints  it consisted of a large proportion of other alternative investment strategies and 
equities including international  equities. So by the time Mr B invested in Sycamore and 
topped-up his Brandeaux  funds, a significant  proportion of his pension portfolio was already 
invested in other higher risk strategies.  
Further, Mr B was being advised  to invest 8% of his pension  fund in these UCIS 
investments. The regulator has said: UCIS are generally regarded  as being  characterised  
by a high degree  of volatility,  illiquidity  or both  and therefore  are usually regarded as 
speculative investments. This means  that in practice they are rarely  regarded as suitable  for 
more than a small share of an investors portfolio. Given that Mr B was a below  medium  on 
the risk scale, Im not satisfied the £25,000 investment in the Sycamore fund and further  top-
up to the Brandeaux funds totally, £28,000, were  appropriate components of an overall 
portfolio seeking  to achieve that risk level.
Ref: DRN48539007Even if I took into account that Im upholding the other complaints and this will have the 
effect of lowering the risk in the rest of Mr Bs portfolio, I dont think  his below medium  
attitude to risk made him a typical candidate for geared property investments. And balance in 
his portfolio would  have  been more suitably achieved by the use of insured funds, including  
commercial property funds.
I note Greystones submission that its advice should  be judged  against the standards  of the 
time. But at the time of the advice, Greystone was required by its regulator to provide  
suitable advice.  To do this it wouldve  had to take into account Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances as well as his understanding of the risks of investing in this type of fund. For 
example, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B understood what gearing was and why that 
increased the potential rewards, as well as the risks. Notably, in the Sycamore investment 
Mr B was being deemed to undertake the development  of the property personally,  which  
shows its market was for sophisticated investors with an in-depth understanding which  isnt 
plausible in this case  
Further, whilst it may not be unreasonable to have some alternative or less conventional or 
traditional assets if the investor understands their place  (which Im not satisfied Mr B did), 
overall, the investment portfolio should still broadly reflect the investors attitude to risk. Its 
possible the variations in Mr Bs recorded  attitude  to risk reflected that the adviser was 
designating some parts of the overall portfolio as higher  risk than others. But I cant  see he 
satisfactorily explained how this would achieve  the overall balance Mr B reasonably needed 
of below medium risk. A balanced portfolio wouldnt reasonably be achieved by straying  too 
far above the range of risk the investor is willing to take, on the basis that this could be 
balanced by straying  equally far below that range  with another investment. 
Greystone has pointed to the risk warnings in the suitability letters,  and the information 
provided to Mr B about the fund. As Ive highlighted above, Mr B was warned of the risks and 
theres no dispute he was provided with these risk warnings  at the time of the advice. But 
providing information about the funds and the risks involved, doesnt change  Greystones 
obligation to give suitable advice. Nor does the fact that Mr B may have signed declarations  
about being a sophisticated  investor.  Mr B denies  signing the sophisticated investor form but 
even if he did, I think Greystone still had a duty to give Mr B suitable advice based  on his 
particular circumstances.  And it isnt about whether Mr B agreed to Greystones 
recommendations  it shouldnt  have  advised him to invest  as he did.
Splitting of the complaints
Greystone has raised objections to the splitting  of Mr Bs complaints. In a letter  dated  
25 July 2018 our service  gave both parties  detailed  reasons why the complaints Mr B 
brought to this service were separate complaints. 
In summary,  we said that looking at the advice  that Mr B was given, this wasnt  general 
advice about rebalancing portfolios in the same sense as the ongoing service Greystone 
had committed to with the pension funds  that remained within  its model portfolios. The 
adviser was clearly departing from those portfolios to reflect a change  in Mr Bs attitude to 
risk and unease with the markets. The proposed recommendations were a reaction  to this 
and a reflection  of the advisers view that pooled property funds had become overpriced. 
So Im satisfied that our view that Sycamore and top-ups to the Brandeaux funds, formed  a 
single financial service  about which Mr B has complained and forms a distinct  complaint. If 
Ref: DRN48539008Greystone is concerned  the redress will overlap  between this case and the redress for the 
rest of the portfolio,  this will be addressed in the complaint about the pension switch  of 
Mr Bs pension  funds to the A J Bell SIPP and Transact PPP.
The redress
In terms of the redress, Greystone doesnt  agree that Mr B should receive £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience. This is because it says together with Mr Bs other complaints, 
he is being awarded more than wed normally give for this type of complaint.  
I need to assess  whether  in this particular case Mr B was caused unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience by its advice in July 2008  which resulted in him investing £53,000 of his 
pension fund in unsuitable products. In his letter dated 23 November  2013,  Mr B told 
Greystone the Brandeaux funds were now worth  only a fraction  of their original cost and the 
Sycamore fund had lost £2,000 of its value.  Its clear that even before Mr B realised  the 
losses, he was upset  about the recommendations but it was too late to stop the purchase.  
Given all of this, I consider Mr B has suffered considerable distress and inconvenience as a 
result of Greystones  advice. So Im satisfied that £250 is a fair reflection  of this upset.
Ive also noted  Greystones  point that the suggested  award effectively means the investment 
was guaranteed and Mr Bs capital was secure.  Greystone  says this isnt credible  in light of 
Mr Bs willingness to take some risks with his capital. The benchmark  proposed  is a 
combination of two indices, one of which carries the risk of going down  and its overall 
reflective of the attitude to risk I think Mr B was willing  to accept. And had the advice been 
suitable, then Greystone  wouldnt  be responsible for the losses Mr B has sustained  in 
respect of the investment.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied  that the recommended  redress set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Bs circumstances,  attitude  to risk and objectives 
when he invested.
Greystone Financial Services Limited must  compare  the performance of Mr Bs investments 
with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable. If there is a loss, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must  
pay a sufficient amount into Mr Bs pension plan,  to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. 
Greystone Financial Services Limited payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  It shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict  
with any existing protection or allowance. If Greystone Financial Services Limited is unable 
to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan,  it pays  that amount  direct to him. But had 
it been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
Ref: DRN48539009The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  If Mr B is likely to have been a higher rate taxpayer had any losses  
resulting from all of the complaints hes brought about Greystone Financial Services 
Limiteds advice from January 2004 onwards been  included in his pension  fund, the 
reduction would equal the current higher rate of tax. However, Greystone Financial Services  
Limited should identify as part of its calculations if Mr B would have been able to take higher  
amounts of tax-free  cash at the times, he took tax-free cash  from his pension (if a loss was 
already showing  at that time) and adjust the reduction its making for income tax accordingly.
To give only an example,  if any higher amount of tax-free cash  Mr B wouldve been able to 
take in 2006/7 but for Greystones  advice from January 2004 onwards, with further growth 
added to the date of my final decision in line with the benchmark shown below, happened  to 
now correspond to 20% of his total losses from that advice   this would mean 1/5th of the 
compensation now being paid should not be reduced to allow  for income tax. So if the rest of 
the compensation wouldve resulted in income taxable at 40%,  the overall reduction to be 
applied to compensation in this and other complaints Mr B has brought  about Greystone 
Financial Services Limiteds advice from January 2004 onwards would amount to 40% x 
4/5ths = 32%. The precise percentage should  be determined  by Greystone Financial Services 
Limited during  the process of carrying out its calculations and is the same for all of the 
complaints about  advice  from January  2004  onwards.
Mr B may consider hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension benefits resulting 
from the complaints  hes brought about Greystone Financial Services Limiteds advice from 
January 2004  onwards, wouldve been taxed at the lower rate of 20%. I would expect  
Greystone Financial Services Limited to consider appropriate evidence  provided by Mr B if 
he considers this to be the case.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format:
investment name Status Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)To
(end date)Additional interest
Sycamore II Property
Brandeaux Student 
Accommodation  top-
ups only
Brandeaux Ground  
Rent Fund  top-ups 
onlyAll still 
existfor half the 
investment:  FTSE  
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total  Return Index;  
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed  rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement
(if compensation 
is not
paid within 28 
days of
the business 
being
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed  
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
Ref: DRN485390010Greystone Financial Services Limited should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should  be 
deducted from the compensation before making  the tax adjustment  and the balance  paid as 
above. If it is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. 
Greystone Financial Services Limited may wish to require that Mr B provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Greystone Financial Services  Limited  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Ive assumed that the investment has not been  sold. If it has been  sold or liquidated, then 
the actual value should be determined  by increasing  the value of the proceeds received by 
the above benchmark up to the settlement date and comparing  this to the fair value at the 
settlement date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must use the monthly average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates  to 
the investment  on an annually  compounded basis. 
The end date above is different to the end date I specified in Mr Bs other complaint about 
his PPP/SIPP switch,  because of the liquidity  problem with these  UCIS  investments which  is 
likely to have prevented Mr Bs new adviser from disposing of them.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
-Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
-The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
-I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN485390011my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and require Greystone Financial Services  Limited  to pay him the 
fair compensation set out above.
I also consider Greystone  Financial Services Limited has caused  Mr B significant  distress on 
realising that hed likely lost a significant  proportion of the money invested in his UCIS. 
Greystone Financial Services Limited must  pay Mr B £250 as compensation for the distress  
it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4853900