K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC rejected a claim he made under Section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
 
background
Mr G bought a drone  for £633.94 from a merchant using his Barclaycard. A package  arrived  
the next day in good  condition and Mr G signed for it. He says when he opened the package,  
he found the inner packaging was damaged and part of the drone was missing. 
He complained to the merchant and after they rejected his complaint, he complained to 
Barclays. They attempted to chargeback the transaction under the VISA handling rules, but 
the claim was unsuccessful.  
When Barclays approached the merchant to attempt the chargeback,  it was rejected. The 
merchant provided  evidence that the package was delivered and signed for. When Barclays  
made a second  attempt,  the merchant explained  that the package  had also been weighed  
on arrival  at the depot and before dispatch. They  said if thered been  any discrepancies  in 
the weight, the package  wouldnt have  been dispatched. So Barclays accepted  the 
chargeback was unsuccessful and went on to consider a claim under section 75 succeed. 
But they felt they didnt  have enough information to support such  a claim. 
Mr G was unhappy with Barclays  decision and referred the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt it was reasonable that Barclays attempted  to chargeback 
the transaction before considering a section 75 claim. 
Our investigator explained that for a section 75 claim to be successful, a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation had to be evident. In this case,  he said, the claim would have to be 
considered under a breach of contract. He considered  the evidence  supplied by Mr G and 
the merchant. Mr G said the outer packaging of the parcel was undamaged,  and sent 
photographs showing  part of the drone wasnt in the box. The merchant said the outside 
packaging was undamaged, the item had been  weighed on receipt  by them  and on dispatch 
to Mr G and there were no discrepancies. 
Our investigator said the photographs provided by Mr G werent enough to prove the drone 
wasnt in the box in the light of the evidence provided by the merchant; they proved the 
drone wasnt  in the box at the time the photographs were taken. On balance  he said 
Barclays didnt have  sufficient information  for a successful section 75 claim. He didnt uphold 
Mr Gs complaint.
 
Barclays accepted  our investigators  assessment,  but Mr G didnt. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN42416262The chargeback process  is used to settle disputes between  card issuers (Barclays) and 
merchant, whereas a claim  under section 75, entails the card issuer taking on the 
responsibility for the debt.
Barclays contacted  the merchant twice  with a view to processing  a chargeback on the 
transaction. Those attempts failed because the merchant provided sufficient information to 
demonstrate to Barclays satisfaction that the package  was sent to Mr G intact  and had been  
delivered. Indeed  Mr G had confirmed hed received the package and its outer packaging 
was all intact. I dont  think Barclays acted unfairly by not taking the chargeback further on 
this basis  I cant reasonably ask them  to do anything  further  in this regard. 
Turning now to the section 75 claim. Section 75 says that in some circumstances the 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
theres either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services. 
Im satisfied the required circumstances for Mr G to make a claim are present here.  
My role isnt to decide whether  Mr G has a valid claim under section 75 as that is for a court 
to decide. Instead,  Im required  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. In doing so Ive taken  into account  what the law says, including section 75. 
What I need to consider is whether there  was a breach of contract - did the merchant send 
what Mr G ordered. Mr G says when he received the package,  part of the contents was 
missing. The merchants  have explained  their process when dealing  with high value items 
such as this. They weigh items when theyre  delivered to the warehouse  and then locked up 
in a secure cage.  Theyre then packaged  and weighed before delivery. 
Based on what the merchants have told us, I think its more likely  than not that the drone 
was in the package when  it was dispatched to him. As Mr G has told us the outer packaging 
was undamaged on delivery,  I cant speculate on what  may have happened between 
dispatch from the merchants warehouse and receipt by him. Thats  not to say that I 
disbelieve Mr G, but I dont have enough  evidence  to say that theres been a breach of 
contract in this instance. For that reason, I dont think Barclays  has acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in not giving him a refund.     
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4241626