K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains  that as a result  of a fraudulent  cheque being paid into his Nationwide 
Building Society  account; hes being  asked to pay a debt back made  up of a series of 
disputed transactions  he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.   
Mr M has been helped with his complaint by a representative, but for ease  of reading,  Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  come  from Mr M himself.
Background
On 8 March  2018 a cheque of £2,000 was paid into Mr Ms account.  At the time of the 
deposit Mr Ms balance  was £0.02. 
On 14 March 2018, the following transactions were made from Mr Ms account:
An ATM  withdrawal of £300 at 12:16am;
An online  banking transfer of £500  at 12:17am;
An online banking  transfer of £1,197 at 12:37am (this payment was subsequently  
reversed).
Following the third transaction,  Nationwide applied  blocks to Mr Ms account. The cheque of 
£2,000 was returned as unpaid on 14 March 2018 (after the above  transactions  had taken 
place) due to it being counterfeit.  This created a debt on Mr Ms account of £799.98. 
Mr M reported his card lost on 16 March 2018 and explained he didnt deposit a cheque into 
his account,  or make the transactions listed on 14 March  2018. There  were  further 
conversations between Nationwide and Mr M. 
Nationwide made the decision to keep the account blocks in place and hold Mr M liable for 
the debt caused by the disputed transactions. 
In summary,  Nationwide said:
Mr M told Nationwide he lost his card on 5 March 2018, so Nationwide  found it 
unusual that the card was not reported  as lost until 16 March 2018. Nationwide found 
it odd given that prior to the disputed  transactions Mr M used his card almost daily.  
Mr M told Nationwide he wrote his Personal Identification Number  (PIN) down in a 
diary and his roommate had access to it.  
No attempts were made  to use the funds from the cheque until it had gone  through  
the clearing cycle.
Mr M initially said he didnt have online  banking and when Nationwide  confirmed that 
Mr M successfully registered  for online banking on 8 January 2018, he changed his 
story to confirm he did have online banking.
There were  no incorrect PIN or online  banking  attempts.  
A successful online banking login was made on 12 March 2018. 
Nationwide delayed  sending Mr M a final response letter and £50 compensation was 
sent to Mr M by cheque  to recognise this. 
Mr M was permitted  to withdraw salary  credits from a branch.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service.  
Ref: DRN43340322One of our investigators  felt the complaint  should  be upheld in part. She thought Mr M either 
carried out the disputed transactions himself  or authorised someone else to. But she didnt 
think Nationwide handled Mr Ms request  to access the undisputed funds in his account 
fairly. She suggested that Nationwide pay £200  in addition to the £50 already  sent to him for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Nationwide didnt respond to the compensation suggestion. Mr M provided this additional 
information in response to our investigators thoughts:
He would  have  been at college at 3.24pm on 8 March 2018   when the counterfeit  
cheque was deposited into his account  and CCTV would show  it wasnt  him as he 
couldnt be in two places at once.  
The cheque being deposited ought  to have been flagged  as suspicious and the loss 
could have been prevented. 
Mr M has learning difficulties and when he first reported  the card as lost, he got 
mixed up with the dates. Hes sure he would have tried to use it on 12 March 2018  
because he recalls  it being four days before he was due to be paid. 
He did access his online banking on 12 March  2018. 
Mr Ms PIN was not written in a diary  and rather stored  in his phone.  The card may 
have been cloned  and his online banking details compromised. 
Our investigator maintained her initial thoughts and felt that Mr M would have at least seen 
the deposited  cheque  when he checked his online  banking on 12 March 2018 and failed to 
report his card lost or stolen until 16 March 2018.  
Mr M asked  for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for review.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive come to largely the same
conclusions as our investigator  and Ill explain  why.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr M liable for the disputed  withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not he made  or authorised them himself.
Im satisfied from Nationwides technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were 
used to deposit the counterfeit cheque and make the disputed  transactions. But the 
regulations relevant  to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  Nationwide to 
hold him liable. So I also need to think about  whether the evidence suggests  that its more 
likely than not that Mr M consented  to the transactions  in dispute.
From what Ive seen,  I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide  to conclude  that Mr M 
authorised the transactions and as such, hold him responsible  for the debt that accrued on 
his account following the reversal of the fraudulent cheque payment. This is because:
The disputed transactions were carried out using Mr Ms genuine  card, PIN and 
online banking details but theres no convincing explanation  for how a third party 
could have accessed Mr Ms card, PIN and online banking  information. Mr M has 
given conflicting information about when he last used his card. According to the audit  
trail Ive seen from Nationwide  the last chip and PIN transaction  Mr M carried  out  
prior to the disputed  transactions  was on the 5 March, three days prior to the 
Ref: DRN43340323disputed cheque  deposit.  We know Mr M was in possession of his card on 8 March  
2018 because he made a contactless purchase on this day which  didnt require his 
PIN. I think its unlikely that a fraudster observed Mr M enter his PIN on the 5 March  
2018 and followed him for a period of time before they had the opportunity to access  
his card to use it on 8 March 2018. 
No transactions were attempted until the cheque became available  to spend. So the 
person using the card would have known funds wouldnt  be available  until the cheque 
credit was available to draw on, almost a week later.  Theres  no explanation  as to 
why an unknown third party  ought  to have known that Mr M wouldnt  receive any 
payments into the account during  this time to have checked  the balance  after the 
date of the cheque being deposited.  Theres  also no convincing explanation as to 
why an unknown third party would  wait this period  of time given the high possibility 
that Mr M would have noticed his card missing and reported it lost or stolen.
Mr M has also given  conflicting information  about when he first noticed his card 
missing. I accept  he may have mixed up the dates when he originally reported  his 
card lost to Nationwide.  Even  if I accept that Mr M first realised his card was missing  
on 12 March 2018 and not 5 March 2018 (as first reported to Nationwide), he states 
he tried to use the card on 12 March  2018  and realised it was missing. Given  that Mr 
M tends to use his card daily (when he has an available balance), he hadnt used  his 
card the previous four days and I think  this was because his available  balance was 
£0.02. As Mr M says he recalls it being  four days prior to receiving his wages, Im 
unsure why Mr M would have tried to use his card prior to receiving his wages into 
his account given  that he had relatively  nil available balance. And given the almost 
daily reliance Mr M had on the use of his card, I dont think its plausible  that Mr M 
would have waited  four more days to report this matter to Nationwide. I dont find Mr 
Ms testimony to be plausible or persuasive on this point. 
I accept  Mr M may not have noticed  the cheque deposit when he checked  his online 
banking on 12 March  2018. 
Ive noted Mr Ms testimony that he was at college at the time the cheque  was deposited  into 
his account and felt CCTV would evidence that he didnt  deposit  the counterfeit cheque  into 
his account.
Its possible  that CCTV might have identified that someone  other  than Mr M made  the 
deposit. But Mr M didnt  have to make the deposit personally in order  to be liable for the 
subsequent withdrawals under the relevant rules.  He can still be held responsible for it if he 
authorised the use of his card. So even if CCTV had been available,  looking at all of the 
evidence in this particular  case, I dont  think I could be as sure as I would need to be to say 
that Mr M wasnt  involved.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen  and for the reasons  Ive explained,  I think, on balance,  
Mr M more likely than not carried out the disputed transactions himself or authorised them.  
As Im satisfied the transactions  were  carried out with Mr Ms consent,  I dont need to 
consider whether Nationwide  ought to have flagged the cheque  payment. Thats  because  
even if the cheque deposit into Mr Ms account had been  flagged, prompting contact from 
Nationwide to Mr M, Im satisfied Mr M would have confirmed the transaction as genuine.  
Customer service
Ref: DRN43340324Ive considered Mr Ms concerns about the customer service he received form Nationwide,  
particularly that he was unable to access his wages for 11 days  and he was reliant on this 
money. I agree that Nationwide failed in this respect, it should  have allowed Mr M to access 
his funds  sooner and considering how often  he used his account facility when  he received 
his wages, I think this would have caused him trouble  and upset. 
So, I uphold this part of his complaint. Nationwide should pay Mr M £200 in addition to any 
compensation already paid to recognise  this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint  in part. Nationwide  Building Society  should  
pay Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4334032