K820x#14complaint
Mr E says St Andrews  Insurance  Plc (St Andrews)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr E took out his loan in June 1998 and bought the PPI policy  shortly  after,  in July 1998. 
The loan and PPI were taken out through the post.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr E for accident, sickness  and life  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay the monthly loan repayment for up to 12 months in the 
event of a successful disability claim, other  than a claim for a back  condition when it would 
repay up to 6 months repayments. 
The policy cost £13.27 each month and the premium didnt attract  interest and was paid by 
separate direct debit.  
At the time,  Mr E was employed as an Engineer. He has told us he was entitled  to up to 6 
months sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer.  Mr  E has said he had a medical 
condition prior to the time of the sale. Mr E has also said he had savings of around  £3,500.  
St Andrews  has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account  closed in 2002. 
Mr E was originally represented by a third party when he brought his complaint but is now 
representing himself.  
 
Lengthy submissions were made when the complaint was brought  to this service and I will 
not restate  them all here.  But I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Mr E said:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  he wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr E believes there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told him about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to him and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN41346442Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like St Andrews at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
Ref: DRN41346443these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so St 
Andrews was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr E with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether St Andrews  gave Mr E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr E, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr E suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr E and St 
Andrews, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr E know he had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr E recalls  taking out the loan and PPI in a meeting.  However, the loan application form 
Mr E signed  indicates  it was sent by courier to Mr E after it had been infilled and signed by 
Ref: DRN41346444the business. The loan agreement was signed  by the business the day before it was signed 
by Mr E. This would suggest the loan was perhaps  taken  out over the telephone.  
The loan agreement  also contains  a section about the PPI and I can see that this section 
was not filled in before the agreement  was sent to Mr E and it wasnt  signed by Mr E to 
indicate he wanted the insurance cover. So the PPI was not taken out at the same point the 
loan was applied  for.
The quotation and application for the PPI indicates  it was sent as a mailing in the post. This 
document indicates the loan information  has been  used and completed on the PPI form and 
if Mr E wanted to take it out he had to sign and return the form and the signed direct  debt for 
the PPI. Mr E signed this on 21 July 1998 and it was returned  by him.
So I am satisfied the PPI was taken out through the post and taking everything  into account, 
I think that Mr E knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
Both St Andrews and Mr E agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr E. Instead,  it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr E to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied that Mr E was given a broad description of what  the policy  was intended  to 
cover, that is that the policy would  protect his payments if he was unable  to work through 
accident, sickness and disability. Ive reached this conclusion because this information is 
provided in the documents Mr E was sent about the PPI and he then signed  and returned  
the documents to take out the PPI. Also, the monthly premiums and benefit  are clearly 
stated on the quotation  form.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt make  it clear whether St Andrews gave  full 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr E agreed to take out the policy.  
Although the documentation sent to Mr E with the quote and application form does 
summarise some of the main exclusions of the policy.
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr E full, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were failings  in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  a number  of general points were raised in 
the complaint  in regards to the requirements  on a business when  providing  information in 
PPI sales. Ive considered  these  carefully  and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN41346445The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what is indicated by Mr E as poor value   and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by the views  presented on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in insurance 
law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract to disclose  material  facts and not to make  
material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain  what a court would say  I think  its 
unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims ratio 
information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way that 
has been has suggested by Mr E. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
What effect did St Andrewss shortcomings have on Mr E? To what extent did Mr E 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr E. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr E 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr E 
would have still taken  out the policy, had St Andrews  done things properly. 
Mr E says he would  not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both sides  and the 
evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr E had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr E chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr E thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr E has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr E was given about the cost and benefit was clear. But the information  
about other aspects  of the policy, such as some  of the limitations  and exclusions wasnt as 
clear as it could have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr E thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mr E 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or that 
he had consulted a medical practitioner about  within 12 months of the 
commencement of the policy;  
Ref: DRN41346446The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds and restricting  the length  of time a claim for a back  condition would pay out;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr E pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr E from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Although Mr E says he had a medical  condition when  the PPI was taken out and the policy 
wouldnt have provided cover had he needed  time off work because  of this condition, I dont 
think better information about  this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this 
because it was some 10 years prior to taking out the policy  this condition had occurred and 
there is no evidence  to show any ongoing treatment  had taken  place or that this was the 
prime reason Mr E would have thought he may want to claim on the policy. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr E might 
reasonably have expected. Also any claim would not pay out for 12 months,  but for 6 months 
if for a back condition, although more than one claim could be made  for this condition 
providing a return  to work occurred between claims. Its unlikely Mr E would have expected  
to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr E from taking out the policy, Mr E, in his circumstances, still had some  
good reasons  to take it out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr E would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr E made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr E would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover,  as it would seem  he was not 
caught by these restrictions. 
It has been indicated  by Mr E that the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. It is also submitted that this service should follow  this other  than in exceptional  
circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so Ive taken it into account  
along with many other things when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN41346447Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
flaws in the sales process.  In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed  
Mr E would not have  bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the 
complaint, there is evidence to rebut  the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr E 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr E in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude St Andrews should pay Mr E compensation, as that would put him in a better  
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
For the reasons  Ive already set out I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr E 
in a better position  than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
Ref: DRN41346448my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4134644