K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was added  to her 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Ms V successfully applied  for a credit  card with Lloyds in February 1999. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any original sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. I have  seen records that go back  to May 1999  and the PPI is on 
the account at this stage. So I cannot  be sure how or when the PPI was sold to Ms V but I do 
know it was sold at some point between February 1999 and May 1999.
The PPI that was sold to Ms V was designed to protect her monthly card repayments  if she 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Ms V says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. She says she is unsure how PPI was added to her 
card. 
One of my colleagues  looked into Ms Vs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.     
Ms V disagrees and so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Vs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Vs complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Ms V nor Lloyds can give me much  information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Ms V has said about  how the policy was sold  that it was added 
without her knowledge. But it has been  very difficult for me to understand how this 
would have happened with so little information  available about this sale. And in the 
absence of relevant  documentation, a more detailed recollection  or further 
information to support  what Ms V has said, I cannot  fairly  conclude on this occasion 
that the policy was sold as she suggests it was. I would need  to see more  information 
to support what Ms V has said to conclude  otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Ms V to have the policy  but even 
if it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for her anyway. Any claim under 
the policy more  likely  could be paid for up to 12 months. Ms V would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of her 6-
12 months sick pay). Ms V also wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions. The policy also seemed affordable for Ms V.
Ref: DRN46424062I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Ms Vs decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Ms Vs complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642406