K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has brought this complaint on her own behalf  and as the executor of her late husband  
Mr Ws estate. The complaint is about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside Lloyds Bank PLC mortgages.  
background
The late Mr W complained to Lloyds  that PPI had been mis-sold.  Sadly,  he passed away  in 
2013, before  his complaint was decided.  As  these were joint mortgages,  Mrs W is now 
pursuing this complaint  on her own behalf  and the estates. 
The late Mr W and Mrs W took out four mortgages  with Lloyds, two in 1991, one in 1994  and 
the last in 2007. PPI policies were taken  out alongside each of these mortgages. The 
policies covered Mr W only for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The policies wouldve 
covered their mortgage repayments and paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W didnt agree, so the complaint comes  to 
me to decide.
Mrs W said, in summary,  they were led to believe the policies werent optional, and were 
needed to get the mortgages. She said the policies  werent suitable  for Mr W, because  he 
wouldve had to wait months before he could make  a claim. She said Mr W had no benefits 
through work, so they couldnt afford to wait this long and when  he did try to claim his claims 
were unsuccessful because he wasnt out of work for long enough  She said this caused 
them considerable financial hardship.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
As these  were joint mortgages, Ive taken into account Mrs Ws circumstances too when 
deciding this complaint.
August 1991 sale 
Mr W took out a regular premium PPI policy alongside his mortgage. He took the policy 
out during a meeting  with Lloyds.
Mrs W was working  and said she was entitled to sick pay. Mr W wasnt eligible for benefits 
through his employer.
July 1994 sale 
Mr W took out a regular premium PPI policy on a further advance. He took the policy  
out during a meeting  with Lloyds.
Mr W was in the same job as he was in 1991  and his circumstances hadnt
Ref: DRN40400492changed.
May 2007 sale 
Mr W took out a regular premium PPI policy on a mortgage at a meeting with Lloyds.
Mr W was in the same role as he was in 1991  and his circumstances  hadnt  
changed.
1991 and 1994 sales
I cant know what was discussed at the various meetings Mr and Mrs W had with Lloyds. Mrs 
W says, behind closed  doors, they were told that although the paperwork said PPI was 
optional, they wouldnt get the mortgages if they didnt  take it. 
Given how long ago this was, Lloyds no longer has a copy of their PPI paperwork  for the 1991  
and 1994 sales.  That doesnt surprise me, banks often only keep records for six years. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. So, as well as taking into 
account what Mrs Ws said, Ive looked at the paperwork thats still available from the time of 
sale, to help me reach a decision.
I have seen Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application  for the 1991  sale.  Theyve ticked to say that 
they want a PPI quote. They wouldve had to complete a separate  application form to apply for 
PPI. Similarly,  Ive seen the further advance application from 1994,  again the box was ticked 
asking for a PPI quote. Mr and Mrs W signed the application form.
Based on the very limited  information available, Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W, but theres 
not enough for me to safely conclude that the policies werent presented as optional. 
Because of this, I cannot fairly say that Lloyds didnt make the optional nature of PPI clear.
2007 sale
Looking over the policy and all the information Lloyds gave Mr W when he took out the PPI 
in 
2007, Mr and Mrs W signed  a separate form to apply for PPI. The paperwork made it clear  
that PPI was an optional extra. So, I cant fairly uphold  the complaint on this ground.
were the policies suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs?
I think Lloyds recommended all these policies to Mr and Mrs W. So, each  time it made  a 
recommendation, it had to consider  whether the policy was suitable for their needs. Lloyds 
also had to give Mr and Mrs W information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
they could make an informed choice about  whether each policy was right for them  and they 
wanted to buy it.
I think the policies  were suitable for Mr Ws needs.  Ill explain why.
Mr W was eligible  to take out the policies given his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN40400493he wouldnt have got any sick pay through work  and Mrs W said they had no other  
means of making their repayments.  
Mr W didnt  seem to be affected  by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policies. So, I think it likely that he could  benefitted from everything the policies 
offered. 
the policies  appeared affordable. They  paid a monthly amount for the policies, 
which couldve been cancelled  at any time without Mr and Mrs W losing out 
financially.
Mr W wouldnt have  got any sick pay through work. So, I think PPI couldve been 
useful to them in their circumstances, to protect  their home.  It wouldve  allowed  
them to use Mrs Ws income to meet  their other  household  expenditure at what  
might be a difficult time for them financially, if Mr W wasnt  working.
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about the waiting period  before Mr W could make a 
claim. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the policies and the waiting period before a 
claim could  be made  was 60 days.  I cant know what Mr and Mrs W were told about this at 
the time they took out PPI. I think, on balance, that the recommended policies were likely  to 
have been suitable for them given their circumstances. I think  the benefit  of having PPI to 
protect their home long term, given their limited  other means, outweighed the fact theyd 
have needed to wait for 60 days to make a claim on the policies. So, I cant  fairly uphold the 
complaint on this ground.
Looking at the information Mr and Mrs W were  given about the cost and benefits  of the 
policies at the time of sale;  I think Lloyds could have  made the information clearer. But, I 
cant see that being given clearer information  wouldve made  a difference to their decision 
to buy PPI. I say this because the policies appeared affordable, suitable for their needs  and 
as Ive said before they couldve cancelled them at any time without losing out financially. 
So, I cant see that they lost out because of what Lloyds couldve done  better. I dont think  
Lloyds mis- sold the PPI policies or treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W on her own 
account and behalf of the estate to accept or reject  my decision before 18 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4040049