K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Calpe Insurance  Company Limited dealt with his motor 
insurance claim. 
background
Mr Cs car was involved in an accident  with a third partys car. The third partys insurer 
contacted Calpe to claim  for the damage.  Calpe investigated the claim and interviewed  Mr C. 
After it had finished its investigation  Calpe  thought  it wouldnt be able to defend  the claim so 
settled it with the third partys insurer. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair, he said the other  driver had undertaken him and cut across 
the front of his car. He also said Calpe had got the position of the accident  wrong  so didnt  
think it had fairly investigated  the claim.  Because of this Mr C complained. 
In Calpes final response it said Mr Cs lane was merging into the left-hand  lane. Because  of 
this Mr C had a duty to be aware  of other road users  before he merged into the other lane. 
As Mr C had said the other car had come out of nowhere, Calpe didnt think it had a 
reasonable chance of defending  Mr Cs claim if it went to court.  Mr  C didnt agree with this 
and brought his complaint  here. He said it was still three  lanes when the accident happened, 
and that Calpe had got the location of the accident  wrong. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Cs complaint. He found that while the exact  location  of the 
accident was in dispute. Mr Cs description of the accident  showed  he was exiting the 
roundabout and hadnt seen the third party until their cars collided. Calpe had also said the 
damage alone supported the third partys version that Mr C changed  lanes and caused the 
accident. Because of this they didnt recommend the complaint was upheld.  
Mr C disagreed, he said he maintained his lane and the third-party driver had cut across  the 
front of his car. 
As Mr C disagreed the complaint  has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident  as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable  decision thats  in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy  give Calpe  the right to 
take over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might  mean  Calpe makes a decision  
Mr C disagrees  with, but the policy allows  it. Ive considered whether Calpes done so fairly  
and reasonably. 
Calpe investigated  the claim on Mr Cs policy by interviewing him and getting his version of 
events. It also reviewed  the third partys  claim and compared it with the damage to both cars.  
In Mr Cs interview Calpe  acknowledged Mr C was clear that he was in his lane and the 
third-party driver  cut across him. The third-party driver said Mr C changed lanes and hit his 
Ref: DRN46306502car. As the two descriptions  of the accident are different,  I think Calpe could have done more 
initially to try and defend  Mr Cs claim, as it didnt try to suggest  it settle  the claim with both 
parties having some fault for the accident. However, Im not convinced  this would have made 
a difference if it had tried. 
I say this because  Calpes said the damage  alone suggests Mr C turned into the third partys  
car. In Mr Cs interview hes said he wasnt aware  of other cars around him and didnt notice 
the third partys car until they came  into contact. For these reasons Calpe didnt think it had a 
reasonable prospect of defending the claim in court. So, while  I think  Calpe could have  tried 
to do more - given Mr C was adamant he wasnt at fault - Im not persuaded it would have 
made a difference in this claim. It also follows that while Calpe initially  said Mr Cs lane was 
merging, which Mr C disputes.  I dont  think it makes a difference  in this case  for the reasons 
Ive given above. 
Overall, Im satisfied Calpes decision to settle the claim was fair and reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4630650