K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Thamesbank Insurance Services (Thamesbank) didnt tell them 
their home insurance hadnt been renewed. They say this led to a claim being refused by 
their insurer.  They  want Thamesbank to apologise  for its mistakes and pay them the value of 
their claim. 
background
Mr and Mrs M had a problem with their home, and made a claim under  their home 
insurance. They were upset to discover, a few weeks later, that their policy  hadnt  been 
automatically renewed as it usually  was, and that they had no cover in place.  
They say they werent told by Thamesbank that it had been  unable to renew the policy  and 
because of this failing  they now have  a large  bill to pay to repair  their home.
Thamesbank said it could  only look at what happened during the sale (or in this case  
renewal) of their policy.  It says it sent Mr and Mrs M a renewal  offer, which  also asked them  
to make sure their credit  or debit card details were correct so payment could be collected. 
Thamesbank says it heard nothing from Mr and Mrs M so it went  ahead and tried to collect  
the premium. The payment failed. Thameslink said it tried to contact Mr and Mrs M on at 
least 8 occasions   a mix of email, letter and phone calls.
It got no response so the policy lapsed.
Mr and Mrs M say they were on holiday at the time (one reason why they auto-renewed the 
policy each year). But they say they were getting emails and there wasnt  one from 
Thamesbank. Nor was there a letter on their return  or any voicemails on their home phone.
Thamesbank didnt  change its stance so Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld.  She said she thought Thamesbank 
had done enough  both in asking Mr and Mrs M to check  their card details and in trying to 
contact them  when  the payment failed.  
Mr and Mrs M say they think any evidence Thamesbank has produced is fabricated.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going  to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs M say they now realise  the card theyd  been  using  to pay Thamesbank  had 
expired in early  2017  not long after they renewed  their insurance in January that year. 
They say they didnt notice this, and didnt think to check when Thamesbank sent its renewal 
reminder. Neither did they notice the payment hadnt  gone from their account. 
Ref: DRN41072812Thamesbank has sent us a copy of the letter, and Im satisfied it asks, fairly  prominently, that 
Mr and Mrs M check the card is still valid  and warns them  that their insurance might  lapse 
if payment cant be collected.
Mr and Mrs M dont  dispute that they got this letter. They say they didnt get a subsequent 
email or letter. Ive seen  Thamesbanks  internal  records and Im satisfied it did send the email 
and letter, and they were to the same addresses used previously. Thamesbank also says it 
checked that the email hadnt  bounced  so been sent back  undelivered. It says theres no 
record of this.
Thamesbank has also sent records of a number of phone calls to Mr and Mrs Ms home  
number. It says they went unanswered and no voicemail was left. I think its up to 
Thamesbank to decide whether to leave voicemail messages. Many  companies like this 
dont, in order to avoid the possibility  of giving sensitive information to the wrong person.
Mr and Mrs M say this is all fabricated, but Ive seen no evidence to support that view.  Im 
satisfied Thamesbank took reasonable steps to contact Mr and Mrs M about the non 
payment of the premium. I accept that the letter might not have been  delivered  but Im 
satisfied Thamesbank sent it, and the email, and I dont think its responsible for any delivery  
failures.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint and I make no order  against Thamesbank  
Insurance Services.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4107281