K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Miss B, via their representative, Mr B, have complained  about  their home insurer 
QIC Europe Limited, in respect of a claim  they made when the mains stop-cock at their 
home burst, flooding  the property.
background 
The leak occurred on 15 February  2019. Mr H and Miss B called QIC and it agreed costs  for 
them to stay with Mr B until a drying company could attend. The drying company told QIC 
the home was habitable so it told Mr H and Miss B that it wouldnt pay for them to stay away 
from home any more. Mr B, on their behalf,  argued  that the home wasnt habitable, amongst 
other things  the drying company had said the ambient  temperature in the home had to stay 
at 32 degrees centigrade  which, Mr B said, was more than just uncomfortable  for the family. 
QIC initially wouldnt change its view, the drying company had advised that the heat could be 
reduced when  the family were at home  but, after about six weeks, QIC relented  and agreed 
to pay Mr H and Miss Bs costs incurred to date and to continue  paying costs moving 
forwards. They were paying  Mr B £100  a day to stay at his home.
The drying company  initially felt the house  would dry quite quickly,  likely by mid-March. 
However, on its first review it was found that the property hadnt  dried.  Some thermo-plastic 
tiles were then lifted from the kitchen  floor,  but the base  units,  with tiling underneath  them,  
were still in place. At a third review the drying  company  felt the property still hadnt  dried.  At 
some point the base  units were  taken out but the remaining tiles were  left in place. The 
drying company  thought there must  be a pre-existing issue of damp at the property. It noted 
some missing mortar  from external brickwork and that some mortar was bridging the damp  
proof course. It said the sealing and finish around  some windows was poor  and that might 
be causing damp in the property too. It said that photos of the kitchen showed salt deposits  
on the wall, indicative of a damp  problem.
QIC reviewed  the claim and said it wouldnt continue to look to repair  the water damage at 
the property. It felt it couldnt reasonably  do that as with the pre-existing damp  issues it 
couldnt guarantee repairs. It said it would settle in cash, based on what  it would have paid to 
complete the water  leak repairs, and for two months  accommodation for Mr H and Miss B, 
but not based on the rate it had been  paying so far. It said it would pay equivalent to a rental 
property, or if they provided invoices, for a reasonably priced hotel, along with a food 
allowance. 
Mr B didnt think QIC had acted fairly and he obtained a report from a damp  specialist, as 
well as a window fitting company. He also noted that when Mr H and Miss B had bought  the 
home, just a few months before the leak, theyd  had a home buyers  survey  completed. Mr B 
said this showed  there  was no damp.
Mr B complained to us and, during our investigation into the complaint,  the evidence  Mr B 
had provided was sent to QIC. QIC said the report from the window company didnt hold 
much weight as it didnt address the issue of the area around the windows.  It said the damp  
specialist report was lacking as the expert hadnt commented on the visible salt deposits on 
the kitchen walls. Regarding the homebuyers survey, QIC said this did in fact identify an 
issue of damp in the kitchen, in the area of the fireplace. All told, it said it had been fair for it 
to conclude that there had been  pre-existing damp issues at the property. 
Ref: DRN44363732Following review of the evidence and comments from both parties, our investigator thought 
QIC had acted fairly in respect of the damage  claim. As such he didnt recommend that it 
increase its settlement offer,  or reimburse  the costs  incurred  for the expert reports obtained.  
But he felt QIC should pay a further  £100  regarding the accommodation costs incurred. He 
also felt it had caused delays so it should  pay £300  compensation. 
Mr B didnt agree with the findings. He provided a quote which had been received for repair 
of the property. He said Mr H and Miss B wanted  to get on with things and they couldnt trust 
QIC to come  back and complete the works needed. They  felt it would be fair to make it pay 
based on their costs as set out in the quote.  Mr B also said that currently the couple couldnt  
afford to move  to a rental property or a hotel, he was currently  allowing them  credit but 
ultimately they would  have to pay him £100/day for the period theyd been staying with him 
and QIC should  cover this cost as it hadnt settled  the claim fairly.
The complaint came to me for a decision to be made. In short, I felt QIC should be paying for 
the repair and a disturbance allowance, but not the accommodation costs. I issued a 
provisional decision, the findings of which were:
I think QIC did act unfairly by extricating itself from the contract  to repair  and moving the 
claim to a cash settlement. I also think it was wrong  to restrict the cash settlement as it did. 
In short  it hasnt persuaded me that there  was a pre-existing issue at the property which  was 
likely stopping the property drying or that might  have impacted any repairs it undertook. But 
Im not going  to require it to pay accommodation  costs at the rate requested  by Mr B. Ive set 
out my findings below and both parties will have chance to respond  before I make a final 
decision. 
I think errors did occur during QICs attempts to dry the property. Thermo-plastic tiles werent 
initially lifted, which meant water from the leak was trapped in the concrete floor underneath.  
And the fact of the role these type of tiles play in a property with a concrete  floor also seems  
to have been overlooked   the tiles laid on a coating  of bitumen act as damp proofing (which  
is why water from leaks also gets trapped underneath them).  Whilst lifting  the tiles is 
necessary to dry the property, this has the unfortunate side-effect of also removing an 
important damp proofing mechanism for the property.  Further, base units werent initially  
removed, and even  when they were,  tiles remained in place underneath.  
Ive considered the photos provided by QIC, but I have to say I cant see any significant  area 
of salt deposits. I think the damp  specialists report is persuasive,  and whilst  I note QICs 
criticism that the expert doesnt comment on the salting  I cant  reasonably  criticise him for 
not commenting on something Im not persuaded is there. The damp  expert is satisfied there  
is no rising damp occurring at the property and whilst  the skirting  board is significantly wet, 
hes explained why that is unlikely to be related  to any pre-existing damp issue. 
I also have to bear in mind that whilst the homebuyers survey  does  refer to an issue of 
moisture damage in the kitchen, that is found  to be related to condensation in respect  of a 
very specific area, from a very specific cause. This doesnt mean that the home, or even the 
kitchen, as a whole is likely affected by a pre-existing issue  of damp.  And whilst the surveyor  
said he thought  the plaster in the area of the chimney breast  was likely deteriorating, the 
photos of the stripped kitchen, provided  by QIC suggests that the surveyors  concerns were  
unfounded. 
Whilst I can see QICs point of view in respect  of the window  fitters  report,  I bear in mind  
that its findings seem to echo what the surveyor saw when completing the home  buyers 
Ref: DRN44363733report. Whilst the surveyor noted  some missing bricks and masonry, he didnt identify any 
issue of damp in the walls, externally or internally, with floors or ceilings. His investigation 
wasnt an invasive one, but Id have thought that any significant issue  of damp  such as to 
reasonably prevent the proper completion  of long lasting water damage repairs, would have 
had some visible or on other ways tangible effect   for example he was able to comment on 
the plaster in the area of the chimney breast  in the kitchen. 
In any event, the damp specialists report, as I said, is, in my view, persuasive evidence  of 
there not being  any issue of pre-existing damp  at Mr H and Miss Bs home.  Im also mindful  
that whilst  QIC felt it could reasonably rely on the possibility of a pre-existing issue  to 
withdraw from the repair contract, Im not persuaded such  action, even if a pre-existing issue  
had been present, would have been  reasonable. The reasonable course  of action in this 
type of situation  is usually  for the insurer to halt works whilst giving the policyholder  a chance 
to complete necessary uninsured work.  And in some  cases  an insurer will even be expected 
to take on works such as tanking if doing so is necessary to ensure proper completion of the 
repairs it has started. 
It also needs to be borne in mind that, despite  the policy term which  allows QIC to settle in 
cash based on its cost for repair,  in a situation  where an insurer  is choosing  to not complete 
repairs, this service wont usually find settlement based on its cost to repair  to be fair. So 
QICs forced cash settlement should  always have been based on Mr H and Miss Bs cost to 
complete the insured repairs. 
As I understand it, the work  reinstating  the building and fitting  a new kitchen  has now all 
been done and paid for by Mr B. Mr B said that Mr H and Miss B had just wanted  to get on 
with things and I can understand  that. I also think its fair to say that QIC had made its 
position, that it didnt want to be involved with the reinstatement work any further,  quite clear  
too. So it falls to me, as part of deciding what QIC must do to make  up for its failure to 
handle the claim  properly, to say, what  QIC must  pay and/or do to put things  right. 
I accept Mr B paid for the work to be done in order to mitigate the situation  QIC had left Mr H 
and Miss B in. I dont  think that negates QICs liability to Mr H and Miss B for the cost of the 
work. Ive seen the invoice for reinstating  the kitchen and there is nothing on it that makes  
me think work was completed which QIC likely wasnt  liable for. For example the invoice  only 
relates to replacing  damaged kitchen units,  it doesnt refer to fitting  a new kitchen as a 
whole. And I can see that further monies were  paid to the contractor to account  for 
uninsured work. But QIC can consider the invoice content in response to my provisional 
decision. At the minute though I think QIC should  pay the invoiced amount of £8,347. But Im 
not going to award interest as Mr H and Miss B, as QICs policyholders,  have not been  out of 
pocket for this sum.
Im also intending  to include a direction in my final decision (should it remain the same) that 
QIC considers a settlement for the replacement kitchen parts.  QIC, as far as I can see, never 
progressed the claim as far as considering what fair settlement  for replacing/partially 
replacing the kitchen  would  be. It isnt for me then, at this point, to try and assess  and pick 
out from the retailers invoice which parts are and are not for QIC to pay for. Nor to try and 
determine if the new kitchen is a reasonably like-for-like replacement of the old one. QIC will 
have to consider  the matter in the first instance,  taking into account the policy terms and 
conditions but also any relevant approaches  often applied  by this service   such as partial 
settlement being  made for items  that match but arent damaged. If Mr H and Miss B are 
unhappy with QICs offer then they can make  a further complaint.  
Ref: DRN44363734In updating me as to what was spent in reinstating  the kitchen, Mr B shared invoices for 
appliances and flooring.  The complaint file suggests that any damaged appliances and the 
flooring were  settled  by QIC previously,  so I take it these documents were shared  for 
completeness only.
As is the usual approach of this service, if Mr H and Miss B can show they incurred any 
costs for the expert reports they provided,  I think QIC should reimburse those, plus interest 
from the date they were  paid. Whilst the window  fitter report isnt entirely persuasive in its 
own right,  I think QIC caused Mr H and Miss B to have  to try and defend  their position and 
they did that the best they could. Im not persuaded it would be fair to say they should bear 
any costs that resulted  from that unfair action. So Im going  to say QIC should  reimburse  the 
cost of the window report  too (if Mr H and Miss B were charged for it). 
I understand why QIC wasnt happy to keep paying  for the family to stay with Mr B at a cost 
of £100 per day. That isnt a reasonable cost for staying in a family members  home   its 
more like a cost a family might incur for staying in a hotel, but the two are not the same.  And 
the policy only requires  QIC to cover reasonable costs. Further,  I cant fairly require QIC to 
pay accommodation costs  based on what Mr H and Miss B might  have paid to stay 
elsewhere, at a reasonable rate for that type of accommodation, because  they havent  had 
that cost. I know Mr B has said he is currently allowing Mr H and Miss B a period of credit,  
but they have  known  for a long time that QIC wasnt prepared  to keep paying their requested 
costs of £100 per day. And Im not persuaded that position was unfair.  So if they should now 
find themselves owing Mr B money, that isnt something I can fairly make QIC pay 
recompense for.
That being  said it is often  the case that insurers will pay a disturbance allowance to a 
policyholder, where the policyholder stays with family. This allows  the policyholder to 
contribute to the costs of increased bills which occur due to the increased  size of the 
household. Albeit that traditionally a disturbance  allowance is paid to account  for extra  costs  
incurred by the policyholder for staying  somewhere  like a hotel with limited food and laundry 
facilities, for example.  I also note that travel  costs for the family  are reported as being higher 
whilst living at Mr Bs address. So I dont think its unreasonable  to think  they are likely 
experiencing some extra  costs. Therefore,  Im prepared  to say that QIC should be paying 
them a disturbance allowance.  The normal figure for such allowance  is £10 per adult and £5 
per child,  and I think it reasonable that QIC should pay this.
This allowance  should  begin from 8 July 2019 which I understand QIC had previously  made 
an accommodation payment until.  As Mr B was able to fund the completion of the 
reinstatement work  the family  were  able to move  home at the beginning of March this year.  
So that means QIC should pay the allowance until 29 February 2020. In saying that I bear in 
mind that with young children and asthma sufferers in the family it isnt appropriate  to 
consider the house was habitable  until all the work  had been finished. 
From what  I have  seen Mr B has mostly represented  Mr H and Miss B. So, to an extent, 
I think theyve been shielded from a lot of upset generated by QICs unfair decision. But the 
type of assistance  received from Mr B hasnt stopped them  feeling  upset  and frustrated at 
their home being left in a state of disrepair, and their having to live elsewhere.  Im prepared  
to say, given Im suggesting a cash settlement is paid which will end the parties involvement, 
it makes sense for me to award  compensation to date as well. Im of the view that £1,500 
compensation is fairly and reasonably due by QIC to make  up for the distress and 
inconvenience its unfair actions in respect of this claim caused Mr H and Miss B.
Ref: DRN44363735QIC said it had no further information to add. Mr B asked for further consideration to be 
given to the invoice hed supplied for laminate kitchen flooring. He said QIC had not paid for 
this before. QIC said it had made a payment in March 2019 to settle what  it saw as its 
liability for the buildings claim, and that included an amount for the flooring. I noted that if 
QIC had made a settlement for the buildings claim, that would impact  on the redress  Id 
provisionally suggested Id award. I reviewed matters and told both parties  that I thought QIC 
had not previously made a payment for the buildings claim and it should pay the invoice for 
the flooring. The key points of what I said were:
The only reference  on QICs  originally submitted file in regards to a possible settlement for 
the buildings  work  was in an email dated 23 May 2019. It refers  to the results of a recent  visit 
and that following this it has costed the repairs totalling £4,433.08 (exclusive of VAT). It says 
that to this sum it will add £1,590 for alternative  accommodation costs. That would make the 
total £6,023.08. To date Ive not seen the scope that the email suggests  was completed 
following the recent visit referred to, or that this proffered sum was paid to Mr H and Miss B. 
QICs evidence of having made  a settlement payment pre-dates  this by around two months, 
relating as it does  to March 2019.
Regarding the March  2019 payment QIC has said that following it completing a scope on 
21 March 2019,  it made  a bank payment to Mr H and Miss B. The sum paid was £4,152.68, 
and this was net of the £500  policy  excess. QIC said the total sum (£4,652.68) included the 
cost of repairs scoped on 21 March 2019, plus some sums for alternative  accommodation  
and a food allowance. I cant see any emails on the file from around this time that advised a 
payment of this amount was being  made or what that payment was being made for. But in 
an email dated 21 March 2019  Mr B had told QIC that, with a few caveats, he accepted  the 
sum put forward for the contents settlement. Hes provided the spreadsheet setting out the 
contents claim and the total there  is £4,473.19. The caveats were that he wanted  more for 
shoes and boots,  plus some accommodation  and utility  costs. On 25 March 2019 QICs 
representative thanked Mr B for his email  and confirmed that payment should be made the 
following day.
At this time then I think the payment QIC has shown was made  on 26 March  2019 was most  
likely paid in settlement of the contents element of the claim (with a few sums being added  
for accommodation and utility costs).  Therefore, Im minded  to think that QIC has not paid 
anything against  the buildings claim. So I wont need  to make any allowance  in my final 
award for previous payments having  been  made,  but I will need to add an award for the cost 
of the vinyl flooring  Mr H and Miss B had fitted.  The invoice for that, which  QIC has seen, is 
£413.00 (with no VAT to be added). I intend to make QIC pay this sum.
Mr B confirmed that the payment  in March 2019  had been made in respect of the contents  
claim. QIC did not object  to anything Id said and agreed to pay the invoice.
Mr B provided more detail  about  the kitchen  re-fit. He asked  that I consider that detail now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B would want me to determine  now what QIC should  pay for the kitchen 
re-fit. But, as I explained  provisionally, QIC needs a chance to consider that first.
Ref: DRN44363736Mr Bs request for the kitchen re-fit costs hasnt changed my mind about the redress 
I provisionally said Id award for that. And both parties have otherwise not objected to my 
provisional and interim  findings. Therefore, those findings remain unchanged  and now form 
part of the findings of this, my final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay £8,347  in settlement of the building damage  repair, which  includes the labour costs  
for reinstating damaged parts of the kitchen.
Pay £413 for replacement kitchen flooring.
Consider the part of the claim for the replacement  kitchen,  any settlement made should 
be based on the policys terms and conditions, excluding any that allow  settlement based 
on the cost to QIC for completing work, but also taking into account relevant  approaches 
often applied by this service. 
Pay Mr H and Miss B a disturbance allowance equal to £10 per adult and £5 per child 
per day from 8 July 2019 until 29 February  2020. 
Pay Mr H and Miss B £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436373