K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) declined their claim
against their travel insurance policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 10 January 2020,   
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that ERV hadnt treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly. I said:
Mr B disclosed that Mrs B had COPD but that didnt mean that it was covered under 
the policy. 
The policy provided that pre-existing medical conditions will not be covered unless 
they have been  declared and accepted by ERV in writing and it didnt do that here. 
The medical report of 4 November 2018,  says that Mrs B had exacerbation of COPD 
with chest infection,  so that wasnt something thats covered under the policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
ERV had nothing  further to add. Mr B said:
There were  more  than two calls between him and the business.
He disclosed Mrs Bs COPD and knew it wasnt covered  under  the policy.
The treating  doctor said that its likely that Mrs B caught a bug on the boat. 
He doesnt  feel that Mrs Bs illness was as a result of COPD; he thinks  that there 
were people  coughing around them and Mrs B picked up a cough and chest 
infection, which shes prone to.
Mrs Bs lymphoma  caused her COPD.
Mrs B hasnt  had COPD  treatment  for around five years.
Mr B sent us copies  of his letter of complaint to ERV dated  4 January 2019, a medical  
certificate signed by Mrs Bs GP on 8 January  2019  and a letter  from Mrs Bs GP dated
28 May 2015.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40693552I dont doubt that there were more than two calls between ERV and Mr B but in listening to 
the two calls I was seeking to establish  what had been said about pre-existing conditions at 
the outset. I note that Mr B agrees that he disclosed COPD and that it isnt covered under 
the policy. 
The remaining  area of dispute is Mrs Bs illness  whilst  on holiday. Mr B disputes that Mrs Bs 
illness whilst on holiday was related to COPD. But the doctor  who first treated Mrs B 
diagnosed Severe exacerbation of COPD  with chest infection. I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for ERV to rely on the first treating doctors diagnosis  in deciding  that Mrs Bs 
illness was related to a pre-existing medical  condition.  
I note Mrs Bs GPs  letter  of May 2015, which says that Mrs Bs problem with her chest 
wasnt related to her underlying COPD but was secondary to newly  diagnosed lymphoma. 
That letter presumably  relates to an illness  Mrs B had in 2015,  not the illness which  let to this 
claim. 
In this claim,  theres a diagnosis from the treating doctor that Mrs B had severe exacerbation 
of COPD. The report dated 8 January  2019  by Mrs Bs GP refers to chest infection. But 
Mrs Bs GP didnt see and treat Mrs B when she was ill on holiday. I dont think  that ERV 
was wrong in relying on medical evidence from the treating doctor.  As theres a diagnosis of 
COPD and COPD wasnt covered under the policy, I dont think that ERV was wrong to 
decline Mrs Bs claim. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I remain of the view that ERV didnt treat 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly in declining the claim in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40693553extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) declined  their claim against their 
travel insurance  policy.
background
In September 2018, Mr and Mrs B took out a single  trip travel insurance  policy with ERV for a cruise 
that started on 19 October  2018.
On 4 November 2018, Mrs B became  ill. The report from the ships  doctor diagnosed  severe 
exacerbation of COPD, chest infection and cardiac arrhythmia as a result.  On
5 November 2018, Mr and Mrs B disembarked  and Mrs B received treatment in hospital. Mr B 
stayed at a hotel nearby.
ERV declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim  for medical  and repatriation costs.  It said that Mrs B had an 
undeclared, pre-existing medical  condition  COPD. It said that pre-existing conditions were 
excluded from the policy, as set out in the validation  certificate. ERV offered non-financial  
assistance, which Mr B declined. I understand that Mr and Mrs B arranged their own travel home.
Mr and Mrs B want ERV to pay their claim  for medical  and travel costs.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that whilst COPD was declared 
during the initial quote it wasnt mentioned in the second phone conversation, when ERV went 
through the medical questions  all over again. The investigator said that ERV hadnt acted  unfairly, as 
Mrs Bs COPD was pre-existing and its unlikely  ERV would have covered  her for COPD,  even if it 
was disclosed.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree  with the investigator. Mr B said that he disclosed Mrs Bs COPD.
He asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint, so it was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy,  which include the following:
Pre-existing medical conditions  will not be covered unless they have been declared, and 
accepted by us in writing. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules  and industry guidance  say that ERV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt  reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think that ERV has treated them unfairly. 
I say that because:
    Mrs B had COPD when she took out the policy. Ive listened to the phone  calls 
between ERV and Mr B before the policy  was taken  out. In the first phone call, Mr B said 
that Mrs B had COPD. So, Im satisfied that COPD  was disclosed.
Ref: DRN40693554    Mr B didnt mention  COPD in the second call to ERV but I dont think  that matters,  as 
hed already  mentioned it. ERV is the expert here and wed expect it to take into account all 
that Mr and Mrs B disclosed, even when thats over two phone calls.
    Simply  disclosing a pre-existing  medical condition doesnt mean  that its covered under 
the policy.  As Ive set out above, the policy  provides that pre-existing medical  conditions will 
not be covered unless they have been declared and accepted by ERV in writing. ERV 
didnt accept Mrs Bs COPD  as a pre-existing  condition.
    The medical  report  dated  4 November  2018, says that Mrs B had Severe  
exacerbation of COPD with chest infection and cardiac arrhythmia (irregular pulse with 
numerous ectopics) as a result. Thats  not something thats covered under the policy. So, 
I dont think that ERV acted unfairly in declining  the claim.
    Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs B but there are no grounds on which to direct ERV to 
deal with the claim.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional  decision is that I dont intend to uphold
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN4069355