K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 along  
with a mortgage. Mr G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc who were  trading at the time as 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  most likely made  it clear  that Mr G didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it. I say that because NatWest has provided the actual 
documentation from the time of the sale. To get the cover  Mr G had to select  it. And 
the application for the PPI was separate to the application  for the mortgage  and with 
a separate payment mandate. It seems  most  likely this was done following a 
discussion with the representative. Mr G signed the form agreeing  to its contents. Mr 
G chose the cover  by completing the form and did so, most likely, knowing he had a 
choice about it  although I can understand why he cant  remember this now,  many 
years later
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it 
seems he was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of 
the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.  And Ive considered  that Mr G told us 
that he had good  sick pay benefits. Mr G also told us he had only modest other  
means he could have relied  on in that circumstance or if he lost his job. This PPI 
policy could have  paid out for up to 12 months if Mr G was too ill to work for a long 
time and would have  done so in addition to any sick pay arrangements  Mr G may 
have had. And the policy would  have paid out for up to 12 months  if Mr G lost his job.  
So, considering  the above and the potentially  serious consequences of defaulting  on 
a loan secured  on his property, I think that the policy  would have  been  useful to Mr G 
if something went wrong. So, considering all of the above, I dont think  better 
information about the PPI and its cost would have  put Mr G off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said about  the case, but these  points dont change  
my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest treated  
him unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Gs PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
Ref: DRN46678212what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Gs commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr G back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4667821