K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr W and Ms M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr W and Ms M paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the mortgage  
payments in case Mr W was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W and Ms M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Ms Ms case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr W and Ms M, I dont think  that this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The policy was sold over two decades ago and has long since closed, so understandably  
neither side have any of the documents from the sale. Indeed,  under data protection 
regulations, Halifax  were required to destroy  Mr W and Ms Ms information  rather than hold 
onto it for too long.  Mr W and Ms M dont remember choosing to buy PPI, but thats also 
understandable given  just how long ago it was, and given  that buying  insurance is not often  
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have happened based  on the 
limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misrepresented  the PPI as being 
compulsory, or to have  added it without Mr W and Ms Ms permission. But Ive not got any 
evidence which shows thats what it did, nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales  
process from the time.  And its too long ago for the bank  to be able to produce substantive 
evidence to defend itself.  On that basis, I cant fairly conclude that its most likely  Halifax  
misled Mr W and Ms M. I think its more likely that it followed a standard  process,  gave Mr W 
and Ms M a choice about buying  PPI, and they chose to take it at the time  even if, 
understandably, they no longer recall  doing  so.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W and Ms M, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr W wasnt affected by any of the main things  the policy  didnt cover. While Mr W had a 
relatively small amount  of savings and some  benefits through  work, the PPI paid out on top 
of those and covered him more comprehensively,  especially when his benefits switched to 
just half pay. Its worth  bearing in mind that Mr W was the main earner at the time, and if 
Mr W and Ms M fell behind on their mortgage  payments they risked  losing their home. So 
the PPI couldve  been useful for them in protecting their home and giving peace of mind.
Ref: DRN41050612Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr W and Ms M about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr W wasnt affected by any of the policys  
main exclusions  or limitations,  and the policy couldve  really  been useful in case he fell on 
difficult times. The PPI wasnt unusually expensive given what it paid out in a claim, and Ive 
not seen any indication it was unaffordable.  And if Mr W and Ms Ms circumstances 
changed, they could cancel the policy at any time without  a penalty. So overall,  I dont think 
that better  information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr W and Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4105061