K820x#14complaint
B, an association, complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc did not explain why it would not open  a 
current account and that it made mistakes in handling personal data during the process.
background
HSBC accepts that it provided poor service and sent B £50 in store vouchers. But it said that 
the account application was declined based on its criteria.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that it do anything further. He said that it had provided 
evidence to show that B did not meet its criteria for opening an account. It did not have to 
explain this to B. He did not see that it had used the personal data supplied  during the 
process outside its published privacy  policy. It seemed to have asked one officer  for 
information on several occasions but this was not linked to any data breach. It also had 
wrongly said that an application  for finance  had been declined  but there had never been 
such an application.
The officer of B who represents it in this complaint  did not agree. His information was lost on 
two occasions.  There had been  no explanation for this and the process had been 
demeaning and poorly managed. There had been soft credit  searches on his credit record  
from unconnected businesses and he suspects  this is due to his data being mislaid.  B does 
not see how HSBC  can cite the importance of compliance and checks  when it has handled 
his data in this way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt what  B says about being  asked for information from one officer  on a number of 
occasions. HSBC  does not have  an explanation  for this beyond  administrative error. In the 
final response letter it says Due to recent changes made to our process, systems issues  
and an unexpected level of applications, our resources were  stretched. This caused 
significant delay  in processing applications. It goes on to say that it has now addressed this.
I think these admitted difficulties were  most  likely the cause for the documentation issues  - 
and for the incorrect reference to an application  for credit and for a letter to the officer  having  
an incorrect name in the salutation. There is no hard evidence  that any personal data linked 
to this application has been  lost outside HSBC and has been used outside its privacy policy. 
I appreciate that B draws  an inference  of loss from the soft searches on the officers credit 
file. But I dont find that even on the balance of probabilities I can agree with that.
I understand the frustration of finding out that HSBC did not want  to offer an account. Im 
afraid thats within HSBCs legitimate commercial discretion and so I dont find its acted 
unfairly.
I think the compensation it has given is adequate  and I wont be asking it to do anything  
further.
Ref: DRN49753512my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that HSBC  UK Bank Plc need 
take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4975351