K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Citifinancial Europe Limited  mis-sold them  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H were sold a single premium  PPI policy when they took out a personal loan 
with Citi in 2004. The cost of the policy was added to their loan and they paid interest on it. 
The policy wouldve covered  Mr and Mrs Hs loan repayments for up to four years (which  
was the length of their loan) if Mr H made a successful accident  or sickness  claim.  
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint upheld it. He didnt think  Citi had 
made the policys cost clear enough  to Mr and Mrs H. Citi disagrees and so Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen, I think Citi recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So it needed to 
make sure it was right for them in their particular  circumstances. It also needed to give        
Mr and Mrs H information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. I dont 
think Citi did this.
I can see the cost of the single premium for the policy was set out in the insurance  
application form that was filled in by Citis adviser and signed by Mr and Mrs H. And this cost 
was also set out in the loan agreement they signed.  But theres nothing in these or any other 
documents to show Mr and Mrs H how much interest theyd be charged  on the premium over 
the life of the loan. Nor have I seen anything that shows Mr and Mrs H what  the total cost of 
the PPI, including the interest, would be. Finally, I havent seen anything that shows             
Mr and Mrs H how much of their monthly  loan repayment would  relate to the PPI costs  and 
this is something I think it wouldve been  good  practice for Citi to give them. 
This missing information about the cost of Mr and Mrs Hs policy  represented quite a lot of 
money. I think  it wouldve  mattered to Mr and Mrs H when  it came to making an informed 
decision about whether they wanted  the cover. And I dont think theyd have thought  the PPI 
was good value for money if Citi had given  them  better  cost information than it did. It follows 
I think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of what Citi has done  wrong  and so it should put 
things right.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs H borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So Mr and Mrs H need  to get 
back the extra theyve  paid. 
So, Citi should:
Ref: DRN40159842Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs H the difference between what they paid each month  on 
the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs H paid each month from when they 
paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citi can take off what  he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Citi to take off tax from this interest. Citi must  give Mr and Mrs H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Citifinancial Europe 
Limited to put things  right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4015984