K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mr W. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000 . The policy was sold to 
Mr W when he applied for the card online.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Canada Square  disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Canada Square has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint. This is because the information  Canada Square gave Mr W about  exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions wasnt as clear as it should have been. I think  this would 
have mattered to Mr W because  he was diagnosed  a few years earlier  with a significant life-
long chronic disease. This would mean that a likely reason for him to claim on the policy  
would not be covered.  
I think Mr W has lost out as a result of Canada  Square's failings in this case  I dont think  
hed have taken  out the policy  if hed been properly  informed.
Canada Square  has said that Mr W has changed his testimony about the details of his 
illness. But I dont agree. When first he complained, he made clear that he couldnt  
remember when the PPI policy had been sold. But when his representatives  then 
complained to the ombudsman service, they said that they now knew the date of the sale. 
And so they were  able to give information about  Mr Ws state  of health. So I dont  think  Mr W 
and his representatives have been inconsistent and I think the information they have given is 
likely to be accurate. 
fair compensation
Canada Square  Operations Limited should put Mr W in the financial position  hed be in now 
if he hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.Canada Square Operations  Limited  should  find out how much  Mr W would have owed 
when he closed his credit  card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN49526682Canada Square  Operations Limited should then refund the difference between  what 
Mr W owed when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had 
PPI.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square  Operations 
Limited can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Canada Square Operations  Limited  should  add simple interest on the difference  
between what Mr W would  have owed when he closed his account from when he closed 
it until he gets the refund. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Canada  Square Operations Limited  works out what Mr W would have owed 
each month without PPI  Mr W paid more  than enough to clear his balance,  Canada 
Square Operations Limited should also pay simple  interest on the extra Mr W paid. And 
it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when  Mr W wouldve owed Canada 
Square Operations Limited something on his credit  card.  The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D.Canada Square Operations  Limited  should  tell Mr W what  its done to work  out A, B 
and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  Operations Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Canada Square  Operations Limited must give Mr W a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I require Canada Square Operations Limited  to pay Mr W compensation in accordance with 
the calculation  of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4952668