K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Interactive Investor Services Ltd (Interactive Investor) provided him with 
poor service relating  to the purchase  of some  additional shares to be held in his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  He says Interactive Investor  should  have made  greater 
efforts to contact him and that its deadline  for submission was too aggressive  and that it 
only showed flexibility when he threatened further  action. He feels that this aspect of the 
SIPP Investment  Terms  of Service is unfair.  
background 
Mr B held some company shares in his SIPP and as a result was eligible to participate in an 
open offer to buy additional shares  at a preferential rate  that the company announced in 
May 2018. 
Interactive Investor  advised Mr B of the offer on 22 May 2018, giving a deadline of 
31 May 2018 for submitting  an election to buy the shares. Unfortunately,  the email it sent to 
Mr B went  into his spam folder and he didnt see it. 
The actual date the offer closed was 5 June 2018  and as Mr B was aware of this  having 
seen publicity elsewhere  he became concerned by 1 June 2018 that he had not received 
any notification from Interactive Investor  regarding the offer.   He was on holiday at this time,  
but checked his email  spam folder  and found the offer invitation.  
Mr B called Interactive  Investor to ask if he could participate in the offer but was told that he 
had now missed the deadline  as it had already submitted the pooled  election that morning. 
But following  a number  of further phone calls it was agreed that, as an exception,  Interactive 
Investor would  submit Mr Bs election as long as it was confirmed by 3pm that day, because 
Mr B first had to obtain permission from his employer. When permission was given the 
election was placed on Mr Bs behalf  by Interactive Investor.
When he returned home Mr B complained about  the service  hed received, as he felt that 
Interactive Investor  had made it unnecessarily onerous for him to make his election. He 
thought Interactive Investor should  have done more  to contact  him about the offer and that 
its final deadline was unfair as he thought the time Interactive Investor needed  to collate the 
elections before sending  them off was excessive. He also said that the deadline was ignored 
as soon as he questioned  it and threatened to bring his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  which  he thought  was unfair.
 
Interactive Investor  didnt  think it had done  anything  wrong. It said it was standard  practice  to 
set a deadline a few days before the official deadline in these matters,  but in this case  it was 
able to make  an exception for Mr B  although  that isnt always the case. It said it could have 
made this clearer to Mr B in its final response and therefore as a gesture of goodwill it 
offered to reimburse  his SIPP fees for that quarter. 
Mr B felt the offer didnt  reflect the inconvenience hed suffered and so brought his complaint 
to us where one of our adjudicators looked into the matter.
She concluded that Interactive Investor hadnt done  anything wrong. She said it had acted 
according to its terms and conditions regarding the share offer and  as it hadnt specified 
how it would  communicate with Mr B about such matters, it was reasonable to have only 
contacted him by email. She said that, in the circumstances, an offer to refund a quarterly 
Ref: DRN47412702SIPP administration fee was fair and reasonable for any distress Mr B may have been 
caused.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that the case be referred to an Ombudsman, so its been  
passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators conclusions and for broadly the same  reasons. I know  this 
outcome will disappoint  Mr B so Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of the email that was sent to Mr B dated 22 May 2018. It said,  in bold, 
please read this notice in full and make your election by 31 May 2018. The email  provided 
further information about how to apply for the offer explaining simply log in and select  
corporate actions  from the menu to make your election online. It said it would submit  your 
instructions to the company before the official deadline. 
So Im satisfied that Interactive Investor  did make Mr B aware of the impending subscription 
offer and what he needed to do in order to apply  including the deadline it had set for the 
election to be received.   It was unfortunate that the email was directed to Mr Bs spam 
account but thats not Interactive Investors fault and Ive seen that it made Mr B aware of the 
important offer that was available to him, as it said it would, through  the email  address it held 
for him. 
Interactive Investor  has said that its usual process for communicating such information is to 
upload the documents online and then to tell its customers by email that those documents 
are available to view. Ive looked at the SIPPs  general terms and conditions and theres 
nothing to suggest that Interactive Investor  ought to have done things differently so I cant  
say its done anything wrong here.  
Mr B says Interactive Investor should have used alternative means of communication  to 
ensure such important messages were received. He suggested sending  an additional text 
message. But theres no evidence  to show that Interactive Investor was required to do that  
or that it had suggested it would use a variety  of communication methods.  And Mr B did 
receive the email  that was sent to him so theres  no reason to say the method Interactive 
Investor chose didnt work.
The SIPPs  investment terms of service  in force at the time said we will use reasonable 
endeavours to tell you about any rights issue, calls,  conversions, subscription  or redemption 
rights and takeover  or other offers arising  from capital re-organisations (corporate events) 
attaching to your SIPP investments unless we consider it impractical to do so. If you tell us 
within such period  as we specify, that you wish to exercise any rights arising out of corporate 
events and provided there are sufficient cleared funds in your SIPP  account, we will use 
reasonable endeavours to give effect  to your instructions but only on terms as you advise 
and are reasonably  acceptable to us.
So, Im satisfied Interactive Investor made Mr B aware of the subscription  offer through 
reasonable endeavours and Ive gone on to consider whether it acted correctly in dealing 
with his request.  Interactive Investors  same SIPP terms of service said Mr B needed to tell 
us within  such period as we specify and it did specify  a deadline of 31 May 2018. This was 
Ref: DRN47412703around five days before  the offer actual ended but Investor Interactive said this was usually 
a few days before the event's official deadline  because we hold stock  in a pooled  account 
and we have to collate the elections  for all participating customers.  
Its not for this service generally to interfere with the commercial  decisions a business may 
make. Although  in these circumstances it would  seem  reasonable to allow  a period during 
which Interactive Investor could pool the requests it had received and ensure they were 
passed on to the company exercising the subscription, before the deadline.  But in any case, 
whilst it was for Interactive Investor  to set its own deadline, I would have expected it to make  
Mr B aware of that deadline.  And I think it did that, as Ive said previously, within the email  of 
22 May 2018. I know Mr B isnt happy with the aggressive deadline that he says Interactive 
Investor set, but that doesnt mean it did anything wrong in setting that deadline. 
I think Interactive Investor made  Mr B aware  of the offer, the deadline for applying, and the 
administration that it would follow. I think its entitled  to set out a plan for dealing  with 
corporate actions  and I cant safely say its done  anything wrong here in the way it carried 
that out. 
Mr B says the deadline was set too early  in the process, which  was proven by Interactive 
Investors ability to be able to submit  his application after the deadline, because he says he 
threatened to bring his complaint here.  And  I can see why Mr B might think  that because of 
how events unfolded.  But Interactive Investor  was under no obligation to extend the deadline  
for Mr B and has confirmed it isnt always able to do this. In this case  it was able to and I was 
pleased to learn that Mr B was able to make his election for the share  subscription offer. As 
a result Mr B didnt suffer any financial loss and was able to purchase  the shares at the 
preferential rate.
Interactive Investor  has offered to waive a quarterly administration fee on Mr Bs SIPP  a 
cost of around £22.50  as gesture of goodwill.  I think thats a fair and reasonable offer in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says Interactive Investors overall  actions made this process  more  onerous than it 
needed to be, which caused  him a degree  of distress and inconvenience. We all experience 
some inconvenience  from time to time when dealing  with financial firms but not always to the 
extent that a compensatory payment is warranted.  In this case  Im not satisfied that 
Interactive Investor  did anything that might  have caused Mr B to suffer undue distress and 
inconvenience so Im not going to recommend it does anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint. I shall leave it up to Mr B to 
decide if he wants to accept Interactive Investor  Services Limiteds offer to waive a quarterly 
SIPP fee.
Ref: DRN47412704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4741270