K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  isnt offering a fair settlement for her car 
after it was deemed  a total loss following an accident. 
background
Mrs D had an accident in her car on 25 April 2018.  Mrs D made a claim on her insurance 
and the car was inspected to establish the extent of the repairs required.  The engineer 
discovered previous  poor repairs carried out on the car which he took into account when 
valuing the car and how much  it would cost to repair  the car had been a previous category 
C write-off. 
Tesco offered Mrs D £1,268 in settlement  of the claim. This was arrived using the average  of 
two valuations given  in industry guides, less excess and an amount to cover the previous 
poor repair. Mrs D complained as she wasnt happy with the value given but Tesco  stood by 
its decision.
Our investigator concluded the valuation placed  on the car by Tesco was fair. And he didnt 
think it was wrong for Tesco to take into account the previous damage and poor repair. But 
during our consideration of the complaint, and despite Mrs D making Tesco aware  she 
wanted the salvage, Tesco disposed  of the car. So our investigator  asked Tesco to pay her a 
further £500 to reflect  the value of the salvage and the distress and inconvenience this had 
caused. 
Tesco agreed to pay the additional £500  but Mrs D didnt think this was fair. She doesnt 
believe the car had been  poorly repaired before and said she wasnt asking the insurer  to 
repair that damage now, so it shouldnt be taken  into account. She is also very unhappy the 
car has been disposed of as she wanted to use it for parts.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting point  is the contract between Mrs D and Tesco  the policy of insurance. Under 
How we will settle your claim the policy explains that:
If the car is a total loss
Once an engineer  has inspected  and assessed the market value  of the car, we will 
send you an offer of payment.
Market value is defined  as:
The cost of replacing the car with of a similar  age, type, mileage and condition,  
immediately before the loss or damage  happened.  
Tesco referred to vehicle valuation guides to obtain a market  value  for the car. Although  the 
engineer originally used the nearest car type he could,  Tesco  used the actual car type when 
using the guides. These  guides are based  on nationwide research of likely (but not actual) 
selling prices. They use advertised prices and auction prices to work out likely selling prices. 
Ref: DRN47293342I can see from the information provided that the lower mileage of Mrs Ds car was factored  
into the valuation.  Tesco offered an average of the valuations  given  less an amount for the 
previous damage, which Ill come on to shortly.
We use a similar approach and vehicle valuation guides to help decide if an offer is fair. 
Checking an additional guide available, the amount offered by Tesco is still an average  of 
the market values given. Mrs D hasnt provided  any persuasive evidence  the guides are 
wrong.
I turn now to the existing damage. Mrs D doesnt  believe  it fair that existing poor repairs  be 
taken into account;  in fact she doesnt believe the car was poorly repaired. The engineers 
report carried out for Tesco records the previous poor repair  and that it would take many  
thousands of pounds to put right. Whilst I accept that Mrs D wasnt asking Tesco  to carry out 
those repairs, they would  have been a factor in assessing the market  value of the car prior to 
the accident and so its fair for them to be taken into account. The report  is detailed and 
provides photographic evidence in support of its conclusions. I find the report  is something 
that both Tesco and this office should  fairly take into account. Mrs D hasnt provided a 
comparable report for consideration. And Im afraid  I dont find her submissions as 
persuasive as the engineers report.  Overall Tesco was acting fairly when taking the report  
into account and reducing the market value of the car accordingly. As I understand it, it only 
took 50% of those  additional costs into account  when  calculating a settlement offer for the 
car. This is more generous than it needed to be. 
Tesco was aware  Mrs D wanted to keep the car for salvage. I do understand Tescos 
concerns about  the condition of the car and that it had been  assessed as a Category B write-
off, meaning it could only be used for salvage providing certain conditions were  met. But as 
Mrs D had yet to accept Tescos offer, the car remained her property. So its disappointing 
that Tesco allowed  the car to be destroyed. Our usual  approach  to this is to make  an award 
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused  and for the loss of salvage. I find £500 to 
be fair and reasonable compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Tesco Underwriting  Limited to pay Mrs D £1,268  in 
settlement of her claim. I also require it to pay her £500 for destroying the salvage. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs D to accept or reject  
my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4729334