K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains MBNA Limited  the provider of her credit cards   sold her debt to a third 
party after she had told it she was in financial difficulty.
background
Mrs C had two credit card accounts with MBNA.  Unfortunately Mrs C is in financial 
difficulties. She contacted  MBNA to explain this. An income and expenditure form was 
completed and MBNA concluded that Mrs C could only afford to pay £19 towards one 
account and £6 towards  the other.  All fees and interest were  stopped.  MBNA explained to 
Mrs C that making the payments wouldnt stop a default being  reported to credit  reference 
agencies.
MBNAs system notes  show it sent Mrs C a Notice of Default in June 2018 for both accounts. 
The accounts subsequently went into default  and MBNA sold the debt to a third party  soon 
after.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In her view: MBNA placed a 
default on the account in line with the Information Commissioners Office guidance; was 
positive and sympathetic  to Mrs Cs financial difficulties because it stopped interest and 
charges on the account; and was entitled to sell the debt under the terms and conditions of 
the accounts.
Mrs C disagreed. She didnt understand why the adjudicator had said a payment plan wasnt 
agreed. She also felt extremely unhappy  that when MBNA sold her debt to a third party  it 
failed to tell that third party  of her financial difficulties. She said this was a flagrant breach of 
its recovery action letter. When she complained to the purchaser of the debt she said it 
immediately recorded  her as vulnerable and advised  her of organisations where she could  
seek help. Having obtained that help she subsequently wrote  to MBNA and asked it to write  
off the debt.
Following the comment  about  MBNA not advising the third party of Mrs Cs difficulties the 
adjudicator contacted MBNA. MBNA said that it didnt send specific information regarding  
individual accounts as they sell accounts in batches of accounts in similar circumstances. 
The adjudicator issued a second  view. In this she said that MBNAs January 2018 letter - 
following Mrs Cs contact with it about her financial difficulties - states maintaining the level 
of payments it had assessed she could afford would not be sufficient to prevent a default 
being registered on her credit  card,  which differs from the position that would be the case 
where Mrs C was on a payment plan. The Notice of Default also states MBNA may sell the 
debt to an external  company even if Mrs C continues to make  reduced payments. Therefore 
she couldnt see the business  has done anything wrong. 
She felt the third party  would have known Mrs C was in financial difficulty as her account 
was sold with others that werent able to go on a formal plan.
She didnt  think she should determine whether MBNA had treated Mrs C positively and 
sympathetically by comparing its conduct with the third parties conduct mentioned by Mrs C.
Ref: DRN49409122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs C feels let down  here.  I think  she felt that she had made an 
arrangement with MBNA and that if she stuck  to that arrangement  her account wouldnt be 
defaulted or sold off.
But equally  I can see why MBNA doesnt  think it did anything wrong. It obtained  her income  
and expenditure  and concluded she couldnt  afford to enter into a formal arrangement as the 
payments she could afford werent of a level acceptable to it. It feels it explained this to her 
and that making  the payments wouldnt be enough  to stop a default being recorded.  It 
agreed to reduce the interest to 0% and waive fees.
I think it would have  been helpful if MBNA had provided Mrs C with details of bodies  which  
can provide free advice to people in financial  difficulties in the January 2018  letter  
particularly as we now know  she didnt understand that letter.  I asked MBNA about  this and it 
has provided me with evidence that it did tell Mrs C about free debt advice in other earlier  
letters. Whilst it would have been  preferable to repeat  this information again I think  
because it had been provided in December 2017   then I shouldnt draw any adverse 
conclusion from it not being repeated in the January 2018 letter.
I think that the January letters regarding the reduced payments were sufficiently clear  that 
making the payments wouldnt stop a default. Therefore I didnt feel Mrs C had been misled  
by MBNA. Even though I appreciate Mrs C did think she had agreed a payment plan.
I think MBNA was entitled to record a default on the account as she hadnt been  making  the 
monthly contractual payments  even though  she had been paying  what  it had concluded she 
could afford.  I also think it was entitled  to sell the debt to a third party.  And given it sells 
debts in similar batches then it didnt need  to provide specific  details concerning Mrs Cs 
difficulties to meet its commitment to her that any third party would be advised  of her 
financial circumstances. 
Finally Mrs C has compared her treatment by the third party and MBNA. My role here is to 
see if MBNA has treated  her fairly  not to carry out a comparison. I think MBNA has done  
enough to meet the test of being  positive and sympathetic even if I think  it could have  done  
more  for example providing  details of free debt management organisations in the January 
letters. Mrs C has said the third party has classed  her as vulnerable. I think the 
circumstances Mrs C has faced recently  do put her in a vulnerable situation. But Ive not 
seen anything to suggest she is a vulnerable person.  This isnt in any way to diminish  the 
very difficult circumstances  Mrs C has experienced which I am very sorry to hear about. And 
overall as Ive said I think MBNA has done  enough.
Ref: DRN49409123my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4940912