K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality  Health Limited  (Vitality) hasnt paid a claim for treatment  made 
under Mrs S group private  medical  insurance  policy.
background
Mr S had the benefit of private medical  insurance  through his wifes employers group 
scheme.
In May 2018  Mr S called Vitality to gain authorisation to see a consultant about a problem  
with his knee.  Vitality pre-authorised the consultation, then a scan and a follow up 
consultation.
Mr S received an invoice  for the treatment directly from the clinic in August 2018 as Vitality  
had declined  to pay for it. So, Mr S complained.
Vitality explained  that Mrs S employers scheme  had been cancelled  with effect from 
29 March 2018.  Although  the company was not dissolved  until 28 June 2018, the last paid 
premium provided cover  until 29 March 2018.  Vitality said it couldnt  have known  this when 
Mr S treatment was pre-authorised, which it agreed in good faith. It said the decision to 
decline the claim was correct, as treatment  was only covered until the date the policy  was 
paid up until.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He said his treatment shouldnt  have  been  
authorised if premiums hadnt been  paid.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Vitalitys decision to decline the 
claim was fair, although she recognised Mr S couldnt  have foreseen the issues.  She 
explained Mrs S employer was the policyholder, and it was its duty to inform members of the 
scheme of any changes or issues with the policy. The investigator said she could see Mrs S 
employer was in discussion  with Vitality about  changes to the policy since April 2018.  She 
explained she couldnt hold Vitality responsible for Mrs S employers failure to keep them 
updated.
Mr S still felt hed been treated unfairly, so he asked for a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I fully appreciate that Mr S couldnt have  known that hed be liable to pay for the treatment at 
the time he had it. And I know he followed the correct procedure  by pre-authorising it with 
Vitality in advance.  But having considered  the evidence provided, I cant  say that Vitalitys 
decision was unreasonable.
Ref: DRN40623082I accept that at the time Mr S called Vitality to authorise  the treatment, premiums were  
outstanding on the group policy. For this reason I can understand Mr S frustration that he 
wasnt informed about the potential impact  if the premium payments werent forthcoming. But 
I dont think Vitality couldve been expected to tell Mr S about this. Whilst he benefits  from 
the policy, he isnt a policyholder, nor is Mrs S. Issues with premium  payments could only be 
communicated to the policyholder and Im satisfied  the group  secretary  was informed about  
this several times in April and May 2018.
I can also see that throughout May 2018,  the insurance broker  responsible for the 
administration of the policy was in contact  with Vitality about  making  changes  to the policy.  
There was no indication  at that point that Mrs S employer didnt intend to continue with the 
policy. And confirmation that the policy would cease was only provided by the insurance 
broker on 28 June 2018. So, I dont think Vitality couldve reasonably declined to authorise  
treatment before that date.
Under the terms of Mrs S policy, it is the group secretarys responsibility  to inform plan 
members of any changes to the policy. It appears  that the issues  with the policy  werent 
communicated to Mrs S or Mr S, but I cant hold Vitality at fault for this. Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for the treatment to be pre-authorised. And Im also satisfied the decision to 
decline to cover the costs  of Mr S treatment was fair, as it took place  after 29 March  2018, 
the date the last paid premium provided cover until.
I know this leaves Mr S with a significant  bill to pay and I appreciate hes done nothing wrong 
here. But I also dont  think Vitality has treated him unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4062308