K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that she hasnt received her mobile phone back after making a claim under 
her mobile phone insurance  with Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI), provided with 
Mrs Ds bank account.
background
Mrs D made  a successful claim for accidental damage to her mobile phone in March 2019 
and AGI successfully repaired it and returned it to Mrs D. AGI said the phone was delivered  
on 3 April 2019. Mrs D says it was not received. 
Mrs D is also unhappy with how she has been treated by the delivery companys driver. She 
says she felt threatened by him after he left a note threatening to go to the police about  the 
matter and that he said in a telephone call with her he wasnt sure about the delivery. Mrs D 
would like her £100 excess refunded  and a replacement phone. 
AGI says the delivery company has provided GPS  co-ordinates  and a signature to prove 
delivery. It also says the driver was sure the phone was signed for by someone at Mrs Ds 
address. So, it didnt agree to replace the phone. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She believed that although the GPS co-
ordinates showed Mrs Ds street, they didnt prove that the phone  was delivered to the 
correct address. Our investigator also didnt believe the signature could be relied  upon  as 
proof of delivery because  it wasnt clear it was Mrs Ds signature.  
Our investigator also commented on the actions of the delivery driver.  She believed  his 
testimony wasnt very persuasive  and his actions with the note hed left supported Mrs Ds 
version of events. So, she upheld the complaint and ask AGI to replace Mrs Ds phone with 
a like for like model and to pay her £150 for the trouble and upset that had been  caused. 
AGI disagreed. As the investigator was unable  to resolve the matter,  it has been  passed to 
me to review  afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
AGI has explained its obligation  was to deliver  the repaired  phone to Mrs Ds correct address 
which it says it has done. But looking at the information that has been provided, Im not 
satisfied that it has.
I can see the package  was addressed to Mrs Ds correct address,  but this doesnt prove she 
received it. AGI says the evidence  about the GPS co-ordinates  show  the delivery  van was in 
the vicinity of Mrs Ds house on the day of delivery. But even  if the delivery van was in the 
correct location  on the day the delivery took place, this doesnt prove that the delivery was 
made to the correct  address.  And although  I can see the package  was addressed to Mrs Ds 
correct address, this doesnt prove  she received it.
Ref: DRN42431702Im also not convinced the signature  proves it was delivered to Mrs D or someone at her 
address. The signature isnt clear  its just a scribble - and although Mrs Ds name is at the 
top of the screen, its not clear if the person signing had to provide a name or whether that 
was already present. It also doesnt  give any reference to the address.
AGI says that there was no reason for the driver to deliver the phone to a different address. 
So, Ive considered the delivery drivers testimony. Having done so, I dont think what hes 
said is something I can rely upon.  I agree  with what our investigator has said here  its clear  
from the note he left and what was discussed  in the call (which I have listened to) between  
him and Mrs D that his job is jeopardy.  So, hes keen  for the matter  to be resolved.
Ive also considered Mrs Ds testimony. She has remained consistent in what shes said  
that she wasnt at home on the day the phone  was delivered, and her husband  was at work. 
And this is very persuasive given whats happened.  Her actions during  all of this arent the 
actions of someone who had received their phone. Given the regular contact she had with 
AGI, she was clearly keen  to get her phone back. And I think  had she received  the phone  its 
unlikely she would have  been calling as often  as she did to find out where  it was.
With such conflicting information, its difficult to be sure exactly what  has happened. But I 
think there is enough doubt  around  this matter  to conclude its more likely  that Mrs D has not 
received her phone. 
Therefore, AGI should send a replacement  phone to Mrs D which  is the same make and 
model as her old phone. If this isnt possible then Mrs D should be given a choice of models 
with an equivalent  specification.
Ive thought about Mrs Ds request that her excess be refunded. However,  the excess was 
what shed agreed  to pay if she made a successful claim. Mrs D has made a successful 
claim, so I wont be asking AGI to refund the excess.  
But I do think the customer service  AGI has provided to Mrs D during this matter  has not 
been at the level it should have been.  I can see from the information Ive been given that   
Mrs D has had to chase  AGI for responses regarding the dispatch and delivery of the 
replacement phone. AGI also didnt ensure that Mrs D received the notification about  her 
phone delivery   it is unclear if AGI was sending notifications to Mrs Ds mobile number or 
her husbands  as shed asked. 
So, I think an award should be given in recognition of the trouble and upset this has caused 
Mrs D. I can see that our investigator recommended £150 be awarded.  I think this amount is 
reasonable given the circumstances of the complaint. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Assurant General  Insurance Limited should issue  Mrs D with a 
replacement phone. It also needs to pay Mrs D £150  for the trouble  and upset that has been 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Ref: DRN42431703Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4243170