K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix  Wealth Services Limited (Phoenix) has substantially 
inconvenienced him following its withdrawal of a new on line service. Mr S says that 
consequently, he no longer receives the service he previously enjoyed  and paid for. There  
have also been  administrative  errors  including failure by Phoenix  to send him paper 
statements. 
He would like this service  to direct Phoenix to increase the redress already paid to him to 
reflect the seriousness of his complaint. 
background 
Mr S decided in 2015 to use the Phoenix  SIPP and investment platform to manage part 
of his pension income. Phoenix decided in 2018  to change its on line systems. 
Phoenix has acknowledged that the new system is taking longer to implement  successfully 
than first envisaged. Its new administration system and the online system didnt integrate.
Subsequently, it decided  to withdraw the online access previously offered to policyholders 
and develop a new online access platform.  This new system is still being  developed .
Our adjudicator explained the Financial Ombudsman Service  cannot interfere with a 
business commercial  decision . Phoenixs  decision to change its computer systems falls 
into this category. We can however, look at the inconvenience this has caused and if 
there is any financial  loss.
In addition to the above,  Mr S experienced a tax code  issue, which resulted in additional tax 
being paid. This code  has now been  corrected and there is now no financial loss resulting  
from this. 
There was a further issue with the disinvestment from his investments resulting in the cash  
balance being  insufficient to meet his income payment in August 2018.  Phoenix has already  
paid him £350  (in June 2018) for the inconvenience caused by both the tax code issue  and 
withdrawal of the online facility. 
A further  £300  was paid (for the payment  and disinvestment issues)  in October 2018. It has 
also have waived the policy fee for July 2018 to July 2019 and agreed to cover  Mr Ss 
costs,  up to £750,  if he decides  to transfer  to another  provider.
Our adjudicator  concluded  that the offer by Phoenix  was reasonable  in all the 
circumstances.
Mr S remained unhappy.  He does not consider the compensation offered to adequately 
reflect the inconvenience he has suffered and the restricted ability  to trade  his investments .
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44449892I have considerable  sympathy with Mr S for the situation he finds  himself in through  no fault 
of his own. Not only can he no longer  deal with his investments  online  but there have been 
administrative errors also.
Phoenix wrote to its customers in March  2018  informing them of changes  it was introducing 
to its online  service. It explained in this letter  that:
The core of the changes is the adoption  of some new systems which we expect to make  
us better  able to support you flexibly  and quickly  over the lifetime of your policy.
I understand Mr Ss frustration at the service he has received from Phoenix since  it 
introduced the changes  and then subsequently  withdraw its online service.  Despite its 
assurance that these  changes would improve its service for its customers  this has, to date, 
manifestly not been the case as far as Mr S is concerned.
It may be that with the passage of time, promised improvements  by Phoenix to its online 
service may materialise. But that will be of little consolation  to Mr S who has already been 
significantly inconvenienced.
Unfortunately though,  there is little I can add to our adjudicators conclusion that such 
changes, however ineptly implemented, are matters  for the commercial judgement of 
Phoenix. This service is unable to intervene in decisions of this kind.  We can though look at 
the subsequent inconvenience or losses caused to consumers such as Mr S by the 
introduction of such changes. That is the focus of my decision here.
In his response to our adjudicators view that the compensation offered to Mr S by Phoenix  
was reasonable,  Mr S said:
My complaint and the reason for coming  to the Financial Ombudsman  was to hold Phoenix  
to account for their poor service and poor attitude towards me as a customer.  I fully expected  
some penalty to be imposed upon them commensurate with the stress caused and potential 
risk to my portfolio .
But the issue I have  to decide  here is not about the poor service  he has received. That has 
been acknowledged by Phoenix by way of both its Final Response  letters  and the redress  it 
has paid and further offered Mr S. 
Rather, it is whether  the quantum of compensation is adequate recompense  having taken 
account of all the circumstances.
In deciding that issue, my decision must reflect the remit of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service as an informal dispute resolution  service. 
Whilst I understand why Mr S says this service  should punish  Phoenix for its failings in his 
case, it is not within our remit  to do so; I have no powers or authority to do this. Punishing or 
fining businesses, as our adjudicator pointed out, are matters for the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  or the courts. 
We are not a regulator. We are an alternative to the courts  not a substitute  for them.  If Mr S 
remains dissatisfied with this, he is of course free to reject my decision and to then pursue 
his complaint elsewhere, including with the regulator  and or through  the courts.
Ref: DRN44449893As an informal dispute resolution  service, our awards for distress  and inconvenience  tend to 
be modest. Our adjudicator set out our guidelines  for such  awards in his assessment.
In this case, I think that the compensation already paid to Mr S by Phoenix for his distress 
and inconvenience,  coupled with its later offers, is not unreasonable.  It is in line with what I 
would have directed Phoenix to pay had such payments  and offers not been made by it.
I have noted that the tax coding error  has been rectified and no loss was incurred by Mr S. I 
do not discount his understandable frustration  that such an error  occurred  in the first place. 
But in these circumstances,  I am not persuaded a further award  is warranted.  
In respect of Mr Ss further point that he has been denied the opportunity to rearrange his 
investments, I do not agree this was the case..  Mr S said in his response to our adjudicator  
of 3rd January 2019 that as well as distress and inconvenience he has been financially  
disadvantaged because:
The market has fluctuated and I have not been  able to exercise my right to switch into other 
Instruments.
Mr S implicitly suggests that but for Phoenixs errors, he would have  rearranged his 
investments such that he would wholly  or partly have mitigated the losses  he implies he 
suffered as a result  of market fluctuations. 
But Mr S is effectively asking me to make a further award based on an unsubstantiated 
assertion. He says he would have predicted  market  fluctuations that would adversely impact 
his investments and so taken action to invest elsewhere to mitigate this adverse impact.  
But I have not seen evidence to persuade me that Mr S attempted to rearrange his 
investments. I am not aware  for example, that Mr S attempted to contact Phoenix with 
explicit direct  instructions to specifically  rearrange  his investments.
 
Whilst I understand Mr Ss motivation in making this assertion,  I am not persuaded it would 
be fair or reasonable  to direct Phoenix to make  good losses, if any, Mr S implies he has 
incurred as a result of Phoenixs new online platform not being  available. In my view,  Mr S 
makes this implied loss assertion based on hindsight.
I am not persuaded that this is a fair or reasonable basis on which  to make a further award, 
over and above an award for distress  and inconvenience.
I have noted Phoenix  has already paid Mr S £350  (in June 2018) for the inconvenience 
caused by both the tax code issue and withdrawal of the online  facility. A further  £300  
was paid (for the payment and disinvestment  issues) in October 2018.  It has also waived  
its policy fee for the period July 2018  to July 2019.
 
Following the further intervention of our adjudicator, it has also agreed to cover Mr Ss costs, 
up to £750, if he decides to transfer his plan to another provider. 
I realise that these awards do not meet Mr Ss understandable  wish that Phoenix  should 
incur a substantial penalty  for the inconvenience  and frustration it has caused him. But as 
well as receiving monetary redress, Mr S, at minimal future cost, can now exercise his 
commercial right to permanently remove his business from Phoenix.
Ref: DRN44449894In all the circumstances, I agree with our adjudicator that the overall offer by Phoenix to Mr S 
is a fair and reasonable resolution  to his complaint and is consistent  with our guidance. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Phoenix Wealth Services Limited must further redress  Mr S as I have  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2019.                        .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4444989