K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs T are business partners. They complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc regarding the management of their loan accounts.
Background 
The partnerships business  had banked with NatWest since 1980. Their accounts  were 
transferred to the banks Global Restructuring Group  (GRG) in August 2007. The bank has 
said it made the transfer after the fourth year of losses, negative cash  flow, excesses on the 
accounts and delays in getting  management  information.
Various restructurings were put in place but issues continued. Eventually  in 2012 the 
business premises were  sold to repay the partnerships borrowings.
The partnership has complained that interest  charges and fees were  unreasonable  from 
2008 until 2011. It has also complained that the bank focused on debt reduction rather  than 
the long-term viability of the business.
The bank considered the partners complaint  as part of its review of matters related to the 
GRG. The bank had already refunded £8,700 in fees, plus interest, as part of the Automatic 
Fee Refund  process and then in 2017 offered to repay all other fees, bringing the refund to a 
total of £11,820,  plus interest. Following the partners  appeal to the Independent Third Party, 
the bank confirmed that the offer was unchanged. Unhappy with the banks response,  the 
partners referred their complaint to this service.
The partners said the enterprise had not been a business  on the rocks but a healthy 
business, run by a dedicated team. Up to 2011  it showed consistent turnover and gross 
profit. Looking at it in a purely business light, the partners said their net profit  was forfeited 
for a few years in order  to benefit the long-term wealth of the business and properties.  They  
said the business didnt make losses over four years  rather, the equity remained in the 
buildings, due to investment in the new facilities and a new department.
The partners said they were a victim  of aggressive tactics by the bank. They said the hostility  
and excessive charges  combined with the consistent hounding  to reduce the borrowing more 
quickly than had been agreed had encouraged  the partners to choose the only way to pay 
the bank back  all of the borrowings to end the hostility and suffering. There was a consistent 
barrage of letters and meetings from the bank asking for the debt to be repaid.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided  and concluded that the banks offer was 
fair and reasonable. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
Arrangement fees
In June 2008, the arrangement fees were raised  to 4% a year (charged monthly) and 
in its review in 2017 the bank agreed that these fees were higher than they should 
have been. It made an offer to repay  all fees, which brought the total redress, as 
described above, to £11,820, plus interest. Therefore all fees have either  been  
refunded or an offer has been  made  to refund  them,  with interest.  
Ref: DRN49838662The partners say the bank proposed a fee of £7,500 for establishing a loan in 2009. 
This loan was never put in place  and the fee wasnt charged, so theres no need to 
make a finding on it.
Lending margin
The lending margin (the percentage the bank  charges above the base rate) 
increased from 2.25% to 3% in early  2008, then later in the same  year to 4%. These 
increases were made at the time of reviews  and reflect increased uncertainty 
regarding the strategy  of the business, and hence risk for the bank. The margins  
werent out of line with market  practice at the time. Given  the circumstances, the 
investigator didnt  think  they were  unfair  or unreasonable.
The banks focus on debt reduction rather than the long-term viability  of the business,  
leading to the sale the business premises 
The banks concerns over debt servicing  went back  as far as 2006  when the 
partnership requested capital repayment holidays, which  were agreed  to. The loan 
wasnt in default,  but the lack of management information and recurrent losses  were 
a concern of the bank when restructuring proposals were  discussed in 2008. In 2010  
the bank was uncomfortable with its lending and decided to ask the business  to find 
alternative bankers.  A restructuring deal was agreed in 2010  and in 2011, a new 
overdraft of £6,000 was agreed  to allow the business to buy stock.  The investigator 
thought that, despite worrying signs about the health of the business, these events 
seemed to indicate a reasonable degree  of forbearance on the banks part.
The bank  considered that the viability of the business was questionable at this time 
and acted accordingly. Losses were  continuing, overdraft excesses were seen 
regularly, and it was agreed that the only source of repayment  of the bank borrowing 
was the sale of either the partners own personal property or the business premises.  
In late 2011 it was agreed a sale had to be made. By 2012  excesses  werent covered 
and the loan wasnt being repaid  when due and was in default. It was the commercial  
property that was eventually sold in March  2012 to repay the borrowing.
In the investigators  view, when the property  sale took place the bank had concluded 
that the sale was only way of repaying the debt. He hadnt seen anything to suggest 
the bank was anything other than supportive. There was a good deal of forbearance 
by the bank to allow  the partners to work out a strategy. It is also clear that the 
partnership was under  pressure from other creditors.
The investigator saw no evidence of bank interference with the sale which was 
carried out by agents appointed by the partnership.  The eventual  price arrived  at was 
not as a result of anything the bank  had influence  over. 
The banks view of the viability of the business
The investigator quoted evidence from the time about the banks concerns in 2007 
and 2008 about  the financial health  of the partnership business  about losses  over 
four years  of accounts, unprojected negative cashflow trends,  delays in receipt  of 
management information and problems in the sector in which  the partnership  was 
trading.
Ref: DRN49838663The tone of the banks communications
The investigator pointed to examples of the banks  correspondence with the partners 
between 2008  and 2010 which indicated that it was supportive and that the tone 
wasnt bullying. In his view the banks tone was helpful, collaborative  and not 
aggressive. As regards  the sale of the property, he didnt think  that between  two and 
five emails a year about repayment of the debt amounted to bullying. Hed seen 
nothing that suggested the bank forced the partners into selling the property at a 
particular price.
The partners didnt  agree  with the investigators conclusions. In an additional submission, Mr 
and Mrs T made the following points,  in summary:
The banks offer demonstrates  an admission that there  were  some wrong decisions, 
but it isnt enough  to cover the losses and damage caused.
Given the stock assets  and the value of the land and buildings  in excess  of the 
partnerships borrowing, how could the business have failed, without the destructive 
implementation of the banks policy at the time?
The partners were  very hands-on and the business ran consistently for 25 years with 
two development  loans and an overdraft. It dealt with huge amounts of stock   
ranging from £165,000 to £277,000 in the years between 2004 and 2008  and 
employed many people. The partners ran their business affairs entirely manually  but 
prided themselves on great communications with the bank.
It was the banks role to provide  lending,  listen to business requirements  and help 
wherever possible with co-operative  business people like the partners. RBS stopped  
all of that in 2007.  The bank may have corresponded with suggestions and advice 
but they were  not listening, and behind the helpful facade they were inflicting great 
damage from 2008. Most  of the banks advice and analysis  of the business  was 
totally unfounded and no one took the time to listen to what the partners were  
actually creating.
The partners would  never have sold up so soon  after investing so much, had they not 
felt that they had no choice. There had been many emails and calls from the bank 
asking for a timeline on a quick sale.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Im sorry  to tell the 
partners that Ive reached the same conclusions  as the investigator, and for largely the same 
reasons.
Its common ground that the bank should  refund the remaining fees from the period in 
question, with interest. But the partners say it isnt enough compensation, for several  key 
reasons. First, they say the lending margins were unfairly high.  Secondly,  they say the bank 
wrongly assessed the performance and prospects of their business, which  was long-
standing, viable and had invested for the future. They say the bank didnt listen to what they 
needed or give them enough support. Thirdly, they say the banks focus on debt reduction, 
Ref: DRN49838664coupled with its hostile  and aggressive approach, caused losses  because  the partners were  
forced to sell the business premises. 
I agree  with the investigator that the lending margins charged on the overdrafts and 
consolidated loan werent unreasonably high  they were within the banks  own guidelines 
and in line with general market practice  at the time,  and reflected the banks assessment of 
the lending risk. I dont  think  the margins were unfair or unreasonable.  
The partners dont  accept  that banks concerns about its financial situation were  valid. They 
point to their gross profit and their levels of retail stock, and argue that the net profit figures 
needed to be seen in the context of their investment  in the business.  Despite the banks 
repeated requests for management information, they say that their communications with the 
bank were good. But having  looked  at all the evidence, Ive concluded  that the banks 
concerns about  the partnerships performance  and prospects were genuinely held and were 
based on an assessment  of the businesss finances that wasnt  unreasonable. 
The property improvements and stock levels may have been  positive elements of the 
partnerships balance  sheet, but Im not persuaded that they should  have been seen as 
cancelling out the banks  concerns about net profits, cashflow, overdraft excesses, the scale  
of the partners drawings  and gaps in the management  information.
I appreciate that the partners felt that the business was viable and strongly believed that, 
with continuing  overdraft borrowing or renewal  of the consolidated loan, it would have been 
able to maintain  its physical retail facility while growing an online presence. But the bank was 
entitled to make its own risk assessments and to decide whether to renew the lending. I 
therefore dont  think the bank acted  unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to require the 
partnership to reduce  its borrowing.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs T are sincere about their recollection  of the tone of the banks 
communications. But from the evidence Ive seen, I agree  with the investigator that the 
banks tone was reasonable, collaborative  and supportive. The partners say there were other 
communications that put unfair pressure on them, but I havent  seen  evidence  to support 
that. 
I appreciate that the requirement  to reduce their borrowing would have put the business  in a 
difficult situation and meant that the partners  had to make painful  decisions, but I dont  see 
the banks communications as hostile or aggressive.  In the circumstances I dont find that 
the bank behaved unreasonably  or unfairly  in its lending decisions or in communicating  
them.
I realise that the partners will be very disappointed by my decision and I understand the 
strength of their feelings about  their complaint. But after considering  all the evidence,  I think 
the bank has made  a reasonable offer to settle this complaint.
My final decision
The bank has already made  an offer to settle this complaint.  I think  the offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay £3,120.00 to 
Mr and Mrs T as set out in the offer letter of 10 December 2018,  plus 8% simple  per annum 
from the date the costs  arose to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN49838665Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 July 2021.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4983866