K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Barclays Bank plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in November 2002.  The policy 
covered Ms M against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The card and policy ended in 
March 2007.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ms M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Ms M aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. 
I say this because  although I cant be sure what  was said between the parties, on the 
completed application form I can see that PPI is presented as optional. There  is a 
separate section on the top right of the form for the insurance where Ms M could choose 
to accept the policy or turn it down. A box has been ticked  on the form to signify that PPI 
was required.
I think after seeing how the application form has been completed,  I am persuaded Ms M 
was given a choice to have the PPI policy and she accepted  it by ticking a box and 
signing the form.
Moving on, I think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Ms M, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Ms M 
says she didnt  have  any sick pay at the time of sale so I think  she would have found the 
benefit offered by the policy useful in an extended period of sickness or unemployment.  
I also couldnt  find any other reason why the policy  would have been unsuitable for     
Ms M such as an exclusion or limitation,  as she wasnt  affected  by anything significant  
within the policy terms.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But even if she was given better information I dont  think  it would 
have changed  her decision to have the policy for the reasons  I have  already  given.
In conclusion, I dont  think the policy was mis-sold to Ms M.
Ref: DRN46165202my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4616520