K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 on a 
loan. Mr H says Close Motor Finance Limited  (CMFL) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr H says he was made  to feel like he had to take the PPI but CMFL says it wouldve made 
the optional nature of the PPI clear. Where there is a dispute  like this, I have to decide  what I 
think is more likely  based on the evidence available. So Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs 
testimony as well as the documentary evidence. 
Ive had a look at Mr Hs loan agreement; in it there was a separate  section to add PPI with a 
heading starting with Optional. The PPI section has an instruction that says Please tick if 
required.  On Mr Hs form the box has been ticked and he has signed  the form to confirm his 
selections. This section  also sets out a separate monthly  cost of the PPI. But I think its clear  
that customers only needed to tick the box if they wanted PPI. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  CMFL made it clear that Mr H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
CMFL recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
was eligible for the policy.   Mr H has indicated he had a medical condition prior to the sale of 
the policy but hes been unable to provide any evidence  to show that this condition was in 
existence prior to the date of sale. Based on the very limited information Ive been told, I 
havent heard enough  to persuade me hed be affected by the terms related to known health  
issues. And he wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
either.  
Mr H says he had no sick pay provided  by his employer or any other means  such  as savings 
to help him make his repayments should  he have found himself  out of work unexpectedly  
so he seems to have had a need for the cover.  And this policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months for illness, injury  or unemployment.  So I think  the policy couldve been useful. 
Its possible the information CMFL gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means CMFL doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But CMFL has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Ref: DRN45224272CMFL got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  CMFL didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, CMFL has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Close Motor Finance Limited does  not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Close Motor Finance Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4522427