K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that a used car shed  acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.  She wants  to 
reject the car.
background
In January 2019 Mrs K acquired  a used car via hire purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
The car was around  eight  years old and had a mileage just over 62,500.
The day after Mrs K collected  the car the engine light illuminated  and Mrs K took the car to 
her local garage for investigation. The garage said that their inspection  had revealed a 
number of faults with the car. Mrs K complained to BMWFS and said she wanted to reject  
the car.
It was arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer.  The engineer  
concluded that the car was roadworthy but that it had faults that wouldve been present at 
the point of sale and that further investigations  were required.
Mrs K says she didnt want to drive the car due to the number of issues  with it.
BMWFS upheld Mrs Ks complaint and said that the supplying dealership had agreed to fix 
the issues, or if Mrs K wished to have the car repaired elsewhere  it would  pay £94.38 
towards those repairs.
Mrs K was unhappy at BMWFSs decision and complained  to this service.  Our investigator 
recommended that Mrs Ks complaint should  be upheld and the car rejected.
Our investigator said that under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a car must be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. The independent report on the vehicle had described it as having 
a number  of underlying issues and that although roadworthy did have  a number of faults 
present at the point of sale. 
Our investigator said that if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality then the consumer had the 
right to reject it within the first 30 days of the inception  of the agreement.  Mrs K had made it 
clear she wanted to reject the car within  that timescale.
Our investigator recommended that the agreement should be ended and the car collected. 
He said that as Mrs K hadnt used the car then all payments made under the agreement  
should be repaid together with £100 compensation caused by the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by having to take the car back and forth to the garage  after having 
asked to reject it.
Mrs K agreed with our investigators view but BMWFS  didnt respond. As the parties  havent  
agreed the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43735112Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be of satisfactory quality  at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory quality as although  no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt  reasonably  expect issues to arise 
with the car for a period  of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale then the consumer has the right to 
ask for a full refund within  the first 30 days after acquiring it. If a fault comes  to light after the 
first 30 days  but was developing or present at the point of sale then the retailer  is given an 
opportunity to repair.
Here the car was around  eight  years old and had a mileage  of 62,500 so I think a reasonable 
person would expect  wear  and tear issues needing repair  to arise over time. But I dont think 
a reasonable person would expect  them  to be required when the car was purchased.  So 
even though the car was roadworthy and had a valid MOT  its clear  from the independent 
inspection that the car had a number  of faults  and that it also required some  further 
investigations as to the exact cause of some of the issues that had been identified.
So Im satisfied the car wasnt  of a satisfactory condition  at the point of sale and Mrs K asked 
to reject it within the first 30 days as she was entitled to do. 
Mrs K says she didnt use the car as shed lost confidence with it after discovering  it had a 
number of faults. And I dont think her reaction in the circumstances  was unreasonable.  The 
mileage hasnt altered  much since she acquired  it and the added miles were  due to the car 
being taken to the dealership for inspection. I agree with our investigator that Mrs K should 
be reimbursed the monthly payments as she hasnt  used  the car. I also think its fair for Mrs 
K to be reimbursed the costs of taxing and insuring the car during the period she had it.
Mrs K has found this situation distressing  and has suffered inconvenience having to take the 
car back and forth after raising her concerns  about its condition and seeking  to reject it. 
Ithink £100 compensation for that is fair and reasonable.
Im upholding her complaint.
Im asking BMWFS  to do the following:
End the agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs K. 
Ensure there is no adverse information  in respect of this agreement  on Mrs Ks credit 
file.
Reimburse Mrs K all her monthly payments made under the agreement  with interest.
Reimburse Mrs K any monthly payments made to cover the insurance for the car with 
interest.
Reimburse Mrs K any monthly payments made to cover the road tax for the car with 
interest.
Pay Mrs K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to take the car to the garage  on multiple  occasions.
Ref: DRN43735113my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Ks complaint. Im asking BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to do the following: 
End the agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs K.
Ensure there is no adverse information  in respect of this agreement  on Mrs Ks credit 
file.
Reimburse Mrs K all her monthly payments made under the agreement  with interest 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. 
Reimburse Mrs K any monthly payments made to cover the insurance for the car with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse Mrs K any monthly payments made to cover the road tax for the car with 
interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mrs K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to take the car to the garage  on multiple  occasions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  13 September 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4373511