K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that she was mis-sold her car finance agreement  by Sytner Limited  (SL).
background
Miss H says when she discussed with the dealership the possibility of her taking a new car 
on finance, she made it clear she wanted the finance on her existing car settling and also a 
fixed sum loan agreement she had at the time. She says she later learned the fixed sum 
loan hadnt been settled  and she had to continue making monthly payments towards it. So, 
she says she thinks her finance agreement was mis-sold  to her.
Miss H also says having to make  two monthly  payments is causing her financial difficulties 
and impacting her health. So, she says she wants SL to settle the fixed  sum loan, to 
compensate her for the worry and stress  shes had and she wants  the staff involved in 
setting up her finance agreement to apologise  for whats happened.
SL says having  reviewed Miss Hs finance agreement  it can see the amount of borrowings 
only sufficient to cover the cost of the car. It says its satisfied the finance  documentation 
was completed correctly. It says had the amount of borrowing  been  sufficient to cover her 
fixed sum loan agreement, she wouldve  paid more than the £388.37  per month  that was 
agreed. And it says the new vehicle  invoice Miss H signed on 26 February  2018  reiterates 
the cost of the car along with her deposit  and borrowing values.    
SL also says the fixed sum loan agreement  Miss H entered into at a different dealership  in 
June 2015 was used to fund the negative equity  on her part exchange vehicle at that time. It 
says this is a separate loan which isnt secured against or linked to a car. It says the 
dealership Miss H dealt  with in 2018  wouldnt have had access to the records  about  her fixed  
sum loan.  And it says when the dealership contacted the finance provider for a settlement  
figure on her then existing  car finance agreement, it was provided with a settlement figure for 
the finance connected to her then existing  car only.   
In addition, SL says its found nothing to suggest Miss H requested  for her fixed sum loan 
agreement to be settled  when buying  her new car. It says its satisfied the amount of 
borrowing and vehicle  cost were clearly presented. It says as Miss H signed the 
documentation and took receipt  of the car it can only assume she was happy with the terms 
stated. And it says, as a customer theres a degree  of responsibility to review  and 
understand the agreement being  entered into. 
Our investigator thought Miss Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said she signed the credit 
agreement thinking  everything had been paid. She said if it wasnt, she wouldnt have signed 
and she wouldve kept her old car until the following year. She said she produced  her 
paperwork showing the fixed  sum loan agreement to SLs agents at the time, so they 
shouldve questioned whether it was to be repaid. And she said SLs agents have taken their 
commission and left her in financial difficulty.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN45417512Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at the documentation relating to the car Miss H acquired in 2018, 
including the new vehicle contract  and the finance agreement  she signed. And I think its 
clear her finance agreement doesnt  also cover her fixed  term loan.
However, I see Miss Hs main argument  is that she made SL aware of her fixed sum loan 
and that it would need to be paid off if she were  to take out a finance agreement  for a new 
car. And that her understanding was that this would happen.
I note SLs comments that the quote  the dealership  obtained in 2018 to settle  Miss Hs then 
existing finance  agreement wouldnt also have included the fixed  sum loan. I also note it 
says the dealership wouldnt have  had access to the paperwork relating to that loan, as it 
was taken out at a different dealership. And Ive no reason to doubt  the accuracy of this 
information.   
I acknowledge Miss H feels  very strongly about  this matter and Ive sympathy for her. But 
given the contents of the documents Ive referred  to that she signed, I dont have enough 
information to conclude its most likely  SL misled her about what would happen to her fixed 
sum loan if she took out a finance  agreement for a new car. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Miss Hs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint against  Sytner Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541751