K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss B says Capital One (Europe)  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One has given me a copy of the signed credit card application  from the time of 
the sale. This was sent to Miss B in the post for her to complete in her own time. The 
agreement had a yes and no option for PPI. I can see Miss B selected yes to agree 
to buy the PPI, and in my opinion both options were equally prominent. I also note that 
several sections of the form were marked as very  important to complete, but the PPI 
section wasnt  one of those marked sections. So, on balance, I think Capital One made  
it clear that the PPI wasnt compulsory, and that Miss B chose to take it out knowing she 
didnt have  to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss B got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI  and was given a clear  option to say 
no to it if she hadnt  wanted it  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her 
if something  went wrong. 
Miss Bs told us she wouldve received between three and six months  pay if she was 
too ill to work. The PPI policy  couldve  covered her for up to 12 months  if she was too ill 
to work, had an accident or was made redundant, so longer than her sick pay would 
have lasted. And Miss B hasnt been  able to give us much detail of any savings she 
might have had at the time. I understand Miss B has said she did have life insurance 
and critical illness policies, but those policies wouldnt provide the same kind of cover as 
PPI, so I dont think that they would mean the PPI wasnt potentially useful for Miss B. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied  the PPI could have provided a useful benefit if something  
had happened  that meant  Miss B was unable to work due to sickness,  accident or lost 
her job. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Capital  One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
Ref: DRN46552052Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4655205