K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mrs M took out the PPI in April 2002 when  she applied  for a credit card. BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Mrs M was advised to take the cover.  Mrs M said the 
PPI was added to the card without her knowledge  and consent,  as she is certain  she 
wouldnt have agreed to take extra insurance.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs M had successfully claimed  on the policy for 
accident sickness or unemployment, each  month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Ms credit card agreement. This shows  a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all of the information on the form, including  Mrs Ms 
income and employment details.  So I think its likely that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. 
I've carefully considered what Mrs M has told us, and I accept that she is certain she 
wouldnt have agreed to take the PPI. But set against  that, she doesnt remember much 
about the sale (which  is unsurprising  given  that it was so long ago).  And I consider it 
reasonable to think that Mrs M would have looked over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  its more  likely  than not that Mrs M was given a choice about 
whether to take the PPI and that she agreed  to it - and that probably  just doesnt remember 
doing so after all this time.
I can also see from the information that BoS provided that the PPI was cancelled  in October 
2003, although Mrs M kept the credit card for another  five years or so. 
Im satisfied BoS advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. So it had to make sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mrs M wouldve been affected  by any of 
these. 
Ref: DRN40840352Mrs M said she would have  been  entitled to statutory sick pay, and had no other ways of 
meeting the monthly repayments on the credit card if she couldnt work.  So I think  she 
couldve found it difficult to make the monthly payments quite quickly if shed been  off sick or 
lost her job  and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per 
claim. So I dont think  there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending  the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs M. As Ive said, I cant  
know how the adviser explained  the policy, or when Mrs M mightve been given a policy 
summary or full policy document.  So its possible the information about  the cost and benefits 
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think more  detailed information about  the 
cost and benefits wouldve changed  her decision to take the policy. It couldve provided 
useful protection  if shed  been unable to work. 
I understand that Mrs M feels very strongly  about this  but, from the evidence I have, I dont 
think its more likely  than not that the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some  of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4084035