K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited mis-sold  him a child savings  plan, in 
1989, which was not suitable for various reasons, and that the information  was misleading.
background
Mr G said he thought  the life insurance  and payment protection  insurance was included free 
of charge; 
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld.
Firstly, he was satisfied that this had been  a non-advised, execution-only sale. He said if 
advice had been provided,  he would  have expected to see a record  of the meeting between  
Mr G and an advisor, plus a fact find of his financial  circumstances, objectives and attitude  
towards taking a risk with his money; along  with a suitability report providing reasons for the 
recommended investment. In the absence  of any such information he was satisfied this was 
a non-advised  sale, meaning Aviva was only responsible for providing fair and accurate  
information.
He said that having reviewed all the available documents Mr G was provided with when he 
took the plan out, he thought the documentation  clearly set out the nature  of the product and 
did not imply that life cover or payment protection benefits were being provided free of 
charge.
He noted that the plan included the potential to earn bonuses throughout its life and that 
these could not be taken away, but were performance-based. He also noted that the 
illustration showed  a monthly charge  of £1.34 being deducted  this was the monthly charge 
for the payment protection. He also didnt  believe  that Aviva had hidden  the life cover 
charges. Overall, while recognising that Mr G had been disappointed with the returns, he 
didnt believe Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr G did not agree.
He reiterated why he felt Aviva  had recommended this policy to him personally and why, 
therefore, it should be held to a higher standard of responsibility for the mis-sale. He said the 
plan had been sold at the maternity hospital  as part of a baby welcome pack,  and the 
envelope did not include key documents such as the brochure or terms and conditions. 
Aviva admits  that it no longer holds copies of other  documents  it allegedly  sent to him after 
receiving his application form. He is adamant that he never received the brochure or the 
terms and conditions.
He was not aware that other comparable child endowment policies had been available until a 
year later when he received the first annual bonus  statement.  So he was not aware  that 
other plans  did not include payment protection insurance. Crucially, the cost of this element 
was not spelt  out and he was given no opportunity to decline  it. This was grossly unfair.
He also said that the terms and conditions  state that the payment protection  benefit can only 
run until the anniversary  of the policy  preceding the life assureds 66th birthday; whereas the 
schedule says the benefit runs for the full 21 years  of the policy. If the terms and conditions  
were right, this meant he would not have been  covered  for some of the final two years of the 
policy.
Ref: DRN49869382He also outlined in detail why he felt the costs of the various elements were not clear or 
completely unstated, and the misleading  nature of the illustrations. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Firstly, it is important to state that as this policy expired in 2010 Aviva  is not required to retain  
more than minimal information  about the sale or the policy itself. This service  expects  
businesses to retain a complete information file on active  policies, and for six years after 
their expiry,  but no longer. Indeed, under data protection regulations it is deemed good 
practice not to retain files longer than necessary.
I therefore cannot assume that Aviva did not send Mr G certain documents  merely because  
it no longer has a record of doing  so or copies of the documents  themselves. I recognise that 
Mr G is adamant that he did not receive  key documents. However, given his recollections 
relate to events which took place 20 years, and there is no other supporting evidence about 
this, I cannot fairly or reasonably conclude that Aviva definitely did not send  him the full 
paperwork associated with this investment.  It would almost certainly have been automatic to 
send the key documentation  after an application had been approved so I feel, on balance, 
that it is more likely than not that it would have sent Mr G all the necessary paperwork.
Secondly, the adjudicator  made a crucial  distinction  between a businesss responsibility  
when one of its advisors  offers a bespoke  recommendation to a customer  and when it 
simply puts out marketing  literature and processes an application. For the reasons outlined  
by the adjudicator, I am satisfied  that this sale did not meet  the definition of an advised sale. 
There is no evidence that an advisor  met Mr G, or spoke to him on the phone before  he filled 
in the application, or of any active consideration of his needs, circumstances or objectives.
I have considered all the points  Mr G has made about this issue  but the circumstances he 
describes do not suggest he was given active advice about this plan.
Given this, Aviva was only required to provide fair and accurate advice. If anything was less 
than clear to Mr G, it was his responsibility to seek further clarification before agreeing  to go 
ahead with the investment. If Avivas literature had been consciously or unconsciously 
misleading, or failed  to spell out key considerations then it would be responsible  for this. But 
I am not persuaded its literature  did fail to meet the required standards.
I share  some of Mr Gs concerns about  the extent to which the cost of the life insurance  and 
payment protection benefit was spelt out. But, I am aware that I have  not necessarily seen 
all the documentation  provided at the time, and that this was not  in my view  an advised  
sale. So if Mr G had any concerns about  these issues at the time I think he ought reasonably 
to have sought more information before going  ahead. I dont think the documentation  implied  
that these two features were free of charge; therefore if Mr G wanted to know what  their 
specific costs were  he could and should have  asked Aviva.
I have considered Mr Gs various concerns about the documentation but I do not believe the 
information was misleading or inadequate. It was clearly stated that this was a risk-based 
Ref: DRN49869383plan where certain  bonuses could add value but that the illustrations  were  simply that. There  
was no guarantee  of a specific return at the end of the 21 years  beyond the guaranteed 
sum. The fact that investment returns began to fall rapidly during the life of the plan,  and the 
economy experienced a major crash, is likely  to be the main reason for the disappointing  
maturity sum.
Finally, as Mr Gs personally named schedule states that the waiver  of premium benefit  
would last for the length of the policy I think Aviva would have been required to pay this, 
irrespective of any contradiction between this statement and the general terms and 
conditions. As this situation did not arise, Mr G has not lost out as a result  of any potential 
dispute about this issue. However, had a dispute  arose he could have brought  a complaint  to 
this service and, in my view, we would most likely  have forced  Aviva  to abide by what was 
written in the schedule.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4986938