K820x#14Complaint
Mr X says AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit), shouldnt have lent him money in 
September 2014.
Background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 April 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think AvantCredit was irresponsible  when 
it approved Mr Xs loan.  
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. I also gave  Mr X a further  opportunity to send me previously  requested evidence of 
his expenses at the time of the loan application.  
AvantCredit didnt  respond with any further information. Mr X, however, did respond saying 
he disagreed with the outcome and asked me to consider the following  points  before I issue  
my final decision:
He said he didnt  think the affordability checks carried out by AvantCredit were  
sufficient and raised concerns about the fact that the credit  report  didnt make 
mention of his outstanding County Court  Judgments. 
He also said AvantCredit  ought to have  contacted his employer, in order to ascertain 
whether he was subject to any future  redundancy exercises.  He says that had 
AvantCredit done so, his employer would have disclosed the fact that he was due to 
be made redundant and AvantCredit  wouldnt have  lent him the money.
He also felt AvantCredit hadnt sufficiently  demonstrated that hed agreed to the 
terms of the credit  agreement. He now thinks the credit  agreement might not be valid 
as it wasnt signed and appears  to have been produced  a few years after he took out 
the loan.
While Mr X responded to my provisional  decision with the above-mentioned  points, he didnt  
provide us with the information we requested  relating to his actual living  expenses and other 
expenditure around the time he applied for the loan.
In terms DISP 3.5.9R (3), the ombudsman  is entitled to reach a decision on the basis of the 
information supplied  and take account  of a partys  failure to provide requested  information.  
As a result, and in the knowledge that weve given Mr X ample opportunity  to provide us with 
the additional information weve requested, Ive based my findings  on the available 
information already  provided.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42618412Having thought about what  both parties have said, I dont uphold  Mr Xs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr X says he doesnt think the affordability  checks carried out by AvantCredit were sufficient 
and has raised concerns  about the fact that the credit report  didnt make mention of his 
outstanding County Court  Judgments. In his submissions, hes specifically questioned 
whether the information AvantCredit  has provided about the affordability checks  it carried out 
was correct, and whether  it ought to have  done  more in the circumstances.
In addition to this, Mr X says that AvantCredit  ought to have contacted his employer to check  
whether he was subject  to any future  redundancy exercises. He said this should  have 
formed part of AvantCredits  checks and that had it done so, it would have known that there  
were future plans to make Mr X redundant.
Having thought about these two points, Im satisfied that Ive already explained in my 
provisional decision why these points dont change  the outcome  of this complaint. But for the 
sake of completeness, I thought it would be helpful to summarise what  Ive previously said 
as my conclusions remain  unchanged.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I didnt think  AvantCredit  carried  out reasonable 
and proportionate checks when deciding to lend Mr X the money.  I concluded that 
AvantCredit ought to have  done more to get a better understanding of Mr Xs actual living 
expenses and general expenditure at the time of the loan application - as I wasnt  satisfied 
that the use of estimated figures was appropriate.
I then went on to consider  whether any additional  checks would have shown that the loan 
repayments were unaffordable or unsustainable  for Mr X at the time he applied  for the loan.  
Having considered all the available information at the time, I didnt think that further 
affordability checks would have resulted in a different  lending  decision on the part of 
AvantCredit. I also concluded that I hadnt  seen anything to suggest that AvantCredit had 
treated Mr X unfairly in some other way. As a result, I explained that I wasnt upholding 
Mr Xs complaint.
As part of my reasoning, I addressed the issue Mr X raised about the affordability checks 
completed. In my provisional decision I explained  that I was satisfied that the credit report 
AvantCredit obtained from the credit  reference  agency, specifically stated  that Mr X had no 
County Court Judgments or defaults registered  against him. So, I was satisfied that the 
information provided by AvantCredit suggested it was more  likely than not that it wasnt 
aware of these County  Court Judgments at the time it decided to lend Mr X the money. It 
followed that I didnt  think it was unreasonable that AvantCredit didnt take this information 
into account when  deciding to lend Mr X the money.  
I also went on to explain why I didnt  think it was necessary for AvantCredit  to ask Mr Xs 
employer whether he was subject to any future  redundancy exercises. I stated that at the 
time of the loan application, Mr X was employed  and had provided AvantCredit  with 
evidence of his salary in the form of a bank  statement. So, I didnt think  it was unreasonable  
for AvantCredit to have  relied on this information  when deciding  to lend Mr X the money.  
Given Mr X hasnt  provided any new information  in relation to these  two points, Ive come to 
the same  conclusions for the same  reasons  as set out in my provisional  decision. I will now 
move on to the third point  Mr X has raised in response to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN42618413In addition to his concerns about the affordability and employment checks  completed  by 
AvantCredit, Mr X has also raised some  concerns about the validity  of the credit agreement  
he entered into with AvantCredit. In his submissions, he said the credit agreement relied on 
wasnt signed and appears to have  been  produced a few years after he took out the loan. As 
a result,  hes questioned whether the terms of the agreement reflect  the original agreement 
he entered into and whether this agreement  was enforceable.
As part of its initial submissions to our service, AvantCredit provided us with a copy  of the 
credit agreement it says relates to this loan. Following a further  information  request, 
AvantCredit also sent us with copies  of screenshots from its website, setting out the process 
Mr X would have followed  when signing the credit  agreement and agreeing to the terms and 
conditions of the loan.
AvantCredit has explained that at the time of the loan application,  the credit agreement  
would have been signed digitally via their website and Mr X would  have done  so by clicking  
the Yes, I Agree  button on the View and sign your contract section which formed  part of 
the online loan application process. Credit agreements regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 may be signed electronically  so long as it is in the prescribed form (as per section 
61 of the Act). At the time the agreement was concluded on 4 September 2014  the form 
prescribed was set out in the Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 2010. Regulation 
4, on signing,  required that a signature  must be in a space indicated in the document  for that 
purpose and dated. It is also recognised at Regulation 4(5) that such  agreements  could be 
concluded electronically. An electronic signature can take the form of anything  in any 
electronic form as is incorporated into or otherwise logically associated with any electronic 
communication or data, and purports to be used by the individual creating it to sign.  
Having reviewed a copy of the credit agreement provided by AvantCredit, I can see its dated  
4 September 2014 and contains date and time stamps which  appear to relate to the point at 
which both parties agreed to the terms of the loan agreement. It also gives  Mr Xs name as 
the signatory.  The signature itself is a digital  code or mark which I am satisfied meets  the 
definition of a valid electronic signature and the identification of the name of the signatory 
makes that clearer to verify as having been inserted on agreement by Mr X. The credit 
agreement also relates to a £5,000 loan between AvantCredit and Mr X. Looking  at the 
credit agreement and the terms  contained therein, Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that this agreement relates to the loan which Mr X is complaining  about.
My final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42618414Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr X says AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit), shouldnt have lent him money  in September  2014.
Background
In September 2014, Mr X applied for a loan with AvantCredit. AvantCredit  lent him £5,000 to be 
repaid over 30 months at £320.05 a month. The total amount repayable  over the full term of the loan 
was £9,601.52.  
Mr X says AvantCredit shouldnt  have lent him this money. He says that at the time he applied  for the 
loan, he had three  County Court Judgments on his credit file and his credit rating was poor. Mr X also 
says AvantCredit, as part of its affordability checks, should  have contacted his employer to ascertain 
whether he was subject to any future redundancy exercises.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. Based on what shed seen, she didnt think  AvantCredit had 
carried out proportionate  checks before it lent Mr X the money. She didnt, however, conclude  that 
AvantCredit was wrong to lend Mr X the money, as the available evidence demonstrated  that it was 
more likely  than not that the loan repayments  were affordable and sustainable.
As Mr X didnt  agree  with our investigators  assessment,  the complaint was referred  to me to decide.
the regulatory and legal framework
AvantCredit was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  throughout  the 
period it lent to Mr X. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow 
are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules  and guidance.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to providers  of consumer credit like AvantCredit. CONC 5 sets out 
a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending.  Its clear there is a high degree of alignment 
between the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible  Lending Guidance (ILG)  first published  in 
March 2010 and the rules  set out in CONC  5. As is evident  from the following extracts, the FCAs  
CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
Ref: DRN42618415(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made;  and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within  a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1)  says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments  under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end  agreement, 
within a reasonable period;  and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise  security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite  meaning.
Ref: DRN42618416[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  has a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)  it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure  on a statement of those matters  made by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account  relevant  law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. Taking  all of this into account, I think the overarching questions I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstance of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr X would be 
able repay  the loan in a sustainable way? If not, would those  checks have shown that Mr X would 
have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine  that AvantCredit did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr X and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did AvantCredit, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr X would  be 
able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place  when  AvantCredit lent to Mr X required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether  Mr X could  afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability  check.
The affordability check  should  have been borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr X. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to only think about the likelihood that it would 
get its money back without considering the impact of the loan repayments on Mr X himself.
The checks AvantCredit carried out also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances  of the 
loan application. In general, what  constitutes  a proportionate affordability check  will depend on a 
number of factors including,  but not limited to, the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a 
proportionate check will more likely than not look different for different loan applications.
Ref: DRN42618417In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough:
the lower a customers income (as it could be harder  to make any loan repayments from a 
lower income);
the higher the amount  to be repaid  (as it could be harder to meet a higher repayments from a 
given income);
the longer the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which  could  affect how detailed a proportionate check  should  be 
when it comes to a loan application  including,  but not limited to, any indications of borrower 
vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in the consumers future circumstances. Ive thought about 
all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when AvantCredit was in the process of approving the loan for Mr X. And Ive thought  carefully about 
what checks AvantCredit says it did and whether those were proportionate in the circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain  why.
AvantCredit has sent us copies of the information it holds  from the time Mr X applied for the loan in 
September 2014. This included  the credit report it relied on, the income  and expenditure  assessment  
it completed for Mr X and a bank statement covering the period 11 to 22 August 2014 which  Mr X 
provided in support of his monthly income.
As part of its checks, AvantCredit obtained a copy of Mr Xs credit  report. Having  reviewed  the 
available credit  report, I can see Mr X owed around £28,000 to existing creditors and was paying 
around £560  a month towards his overall borrowings.  The report  also shows he had no Court 
judgments or defaults registered against his name.
In addition to this, AvantCredit also produced an income and expenditure assessment for Mr X to help 
it assess whether  the loan repayments were affordable. Looking at this document, I can see it used a 
figure of £7,858 to represent  Mr Xs net monthly income. I can also see that AvantCredit estimated 
Mr Xs monthly expenses to be around £1,634, which  included the monthly  loan repayment,  an 
amount of £562 to represent Mr Xs existing credit commitments,  and an estimate of £683 in respect 
of Mr Xs living expenses. This calculation suggests Mr X had around £6,200 a month as disposable 
income. 
AvantCredit used an estimated amount  to represent Mr Xs general  expenses. Its explained  to us that 
the figure of £683 used  was based on the average expenditure of someone of Mr Xs age, marital 
status and location. So, Ive thought about whether this would have been appropriate, given the 
available evidence.
Having reviewed  Mr Xs bank statement  for the period 11 to 22 August 2014,  Im satisfied he had a 
high income  around £7,858  a month. The statement does, however, show that Mr X was relying on 
a large overdraft of around £6,000 and he was transferring large sums of money out of his account. 
So, Mr X was borrowing  a relatively large sum of money over an extended period of time,  he was 
significantly overdrawn and there were large  amounts of funds leaving his account.  And, in these  
circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable for AvantCredit  to have carried out further 
checks to understand Mr Xs actual financial circumstances at the time of the loan application.
I think  the information  within  the available  bank statement warranted further checks to be carried  out. 
Im surprised that AvantCredit considered it reasonable to estimate Mr Xs living expenses when it 
could have asked him for further  information  to support  what  his actual outgoings would have been.
Ref: DRN42618418I also think  that AvantCredit ought fairly and reasonably to have queried why Mr X needed to borrow 
£5,000 at an APR approaching 80% over a period of 30 months, if he had, based on its own 
calculations, around £6,200 a month in disposable income. 
To conclude,  Im concerned that part of AvantCredits checks for Mr X were based partly on an 
estimate, which given the loan applied for appeared to be overly  optimistic. And I think  that 
AvantCredits decision to proceed with Mr Xs application on this basis, without verifying living 
expenses and other expenditure, meant that it didnt  complete reasonable or proportionate checks  
when deciding  to lend Mr X the money.
Would proportionate checks on this loan have indicated to AvantCredit that Mr X would have been 
unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
I dont think a proportionate  check was carried out, so I need to decide  whether it is more  likely  than 
not that a proportionate  check  would  have indicated  that it was unfair for AvantCredit to lend Mr X the 
money  given his financial circumstances at the time. 
In order  to gain a better understanding of Mr Xs financial  situation at the time he applied for the loan, 
our investigator asked Mr X for some evidence  of his financial circumstances, such as bank 
statements or evidence of his financial commitments. In response to this, Mr X has sent us a list of the 
County Court Judgements obtained by his creditors between  the period 2006 and 2009. He also 
specifically requested that we proceed to issue our adjudication on his complaint using the information  
we already had.
A review of the only available bank statement  shows  Mr X was earning  a high salary   around £7,858 
a month. While he was making use of his £6,000 overdraft facility during the period covered  by the 
bank statement, Mr Xs large salary would  have cleared his overdraft each time he was paid.  So, I 
dont think the fact that Mr X was using his overdraft would have meant that he couldnt sustainably 
afford the loan repayments.
Ive also noted that Mr X was transferring large  sums of money out of his account. On the available 
bank statement, I can see Mr X had transferred around £3,000 to what  appears to be family 
members. As Mr X hasnt provided us with evidence of his actual outgoings and the only bank 
statements I have cover  a relatively short period of time, Im unable  to conclude that Mr X couldnt 
afford to make loan repayments amounting  to 4% of his net monthly  salary.
Turning to Mr Xs credit  report  from September  2014,  I can see it shows Mr X had total borrowings of 
around £28,000.  The report also shows that Mr X was paying around £562 a month to his creditors 
and theres  nothing  to suggest hed fallen behind on his existing credit commitments.  In addition to 
this, the credit report shows he had no defaults or County Court  Judgments registered against him. 
Mr X says AvantCredit ought to have known that he had three County Court judgments, resulting from 
non-payment of some of his creditors in 2008 and 2009. He says this information should have been 
set out in his credit  report, and as result, he shouldnt  have been lent the money.  While I accept that 
Mr X may have had some judgments dating back to 2008 and 2009,  I cant  see that these  were 
recorded anywhere  on the credit report which AvantCredit used when deciding to lend Mr X the 
money. 
As part of my review  of Mr Xs complaint, I asked AvantCredit to provide me its comments on why 
Mr Xs credit  file didnt list the Count Court Judgments he says he had. In response to this, 
AvantCredit explained that it didnt know why this was the case.
While its not clear why the County Court Judgments werent set out within the information provided 
by the credit reference agency, Im satisfied that the information  provided by AvantCredit suggests 
that its more likely than not that it wasnt aware of these County Court Judgments. I therefore dont 
think its unreasonable that AvantCredit  didnt  take this information  into account  when deciding to lend 
Mr X the money.
Ref: DRN42618419In addition to this, Mr X says he was made redundant shortly after he took out the loan.  He says 
AvantCredit, as part of its checks, should have contacted his employer to ascertain  whether  he was 
subject to any future redundancy  exercises. 
Having thought about what Mr X has said in light of the available information, I dont think this would 
have been warranted or necessary. Given Mr X had told AvantCredit he was employed at the time 
and provided evidence of his salary in the form of a bank statement, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for AvantCredit to have  relied on this information when deciding to lend Mr X the money. Im also 
mindful that its unlikely that Mr Xs employer would  have disclosed the fact that it was intending on 
making Mr X redundant, prior to letting Mr X know. So I dont think AvantCredit acted unfairly by not 
obtaining further information  about Mr Xs future employment status from Mr Xs employer.
I accept that different checks may show different things. But, in the circumstances of this case, I 
havent seen enough to conclude that the loan repayments were  unaffordable or unsustainable at the 
point at which  Mr X applied for the loan. Having considered the available  evidence, Im unable to 
conclude that AvantCredit wouldnt have offered  Mr X the loan, had it carried out proportionate 
checks.
In the interests of fairness, Id like to give Mr X a further opportunity  to provide  us with the information  
we need to understand  Mr Xs financial circumstances at the time he applied for the loan. If Mr X 
wishes to send us the information weve requested, I ask that he do so before the response date for 
this provisional  decision.
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having carefully considered all the available  evidence, I havent seen  anything  to suggest that 
AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mr X in some other way.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching questions, set out on pages four and 
six of this decision,  I dont think that AvantCredit unfairly  and unreasonably when deciding to lend Mr 
X the money. As a result, I dont  think  Mr X has lost out because of what  AvantCredit did wrong.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons  above, I dont currently uphold this complaint.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4261841