K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains St Andrews Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
buildings insurance  policy for an escape of water.
Mr G is being represented in bringing  this complaint by his son, who has a registered power 
of attorney.  But for ease Ill refer to actions  and comments as being  those of Mr G 
(the policyholder) unless otherwise stated.
background
In August  2016  Mr G went into a care home. Around the same time his son contacted the 
broker of the insurance policy to inform them he had a power of attorney and this was added  
to Mr Gs records. Since that time, Mr Gs family  regularly visited  the property to carry out 
maintenance and decoration works, so that the property could be either  rented  out or sold.  
In February 2018  Mr Gs son attended the property to carry out some maintenance. He 
found there had been an escape of water that had caused extensive  damage to the 
property. He made a claim  to St Andrews  but it declined it. It said the damage caused  by the 
escape of water was excluded  as the property  had been unoccupied for more  than 30 days. 
It also said it would cancel  Mr Gs policy and refund him his premiums  back  hed paid since  
August 2017.  It said the longest it would  insure  an unoccupied property was one year, so it 
backdated the cancellation  to reflect this. 
Mr G complained to St Andrews. He said hed told the broker  about the situation in 2016, 
and wasnt told that if the property was unoccupied  any damage  wouldnt be covered. He 
also said he didnt think the property should be classed as unoccupied, as major works  were 
being done to the property and it was visited every  other day by someone in his family.
Our investigator didnt  think St Andrews had acted  unfairly in declining the claim based on 
the policy terms. She didnt doubt that Mr Gs family visited regularly, but said she didnt 
think that was enough  to say the property was occupied based on the policy. 
Mr G didnt agree, he said hed told the broker the property was no longer occupied and it 
hadnt updated St Andrews. He also said he didnt receive any renewal documents  in 2017, 
so he didnt know he should contact St Andrews about the occupancy of the property.
As Mr G didnt  agree, the matter has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised  several issues against  the broker who he had a meeting with in August 
2016. But this complaint  will only focus  on the actions of St Andrews as the insurer. The 
brokers actions, which include the sending of renewal documents, are subject to a separate  
complaint. So the only thing Im considering here is whether St Andrews acted reasonably in 
declining the claim based on the policy terms. And having looked at everything,  I think it has.
Ref: DRN41330042Like our investigator,  I dont doubt  that the property was visited frequently.  But in order  to 
meet the definition  under the policy the property  needs to be lived in by Mr G, or a family 
member. It must also contain  essential  items for normal living purposes, such  as cooking  
appliances, sanitary fittings and beds. 
Based on what Ive seen  Mr Gs property did have the essential items for normal  living, so 
hes satisfied the second part of the term. But I dont think  people visiting the property and 
carrying out maintenance works, however frequently, could be classed as living  in the 
property.
Mr G says that if the property had been  empty for 29 days  due to a holiday then the claim  
would be paid, so its unfair to rely on this exclusion to now decline it. But insurers  are 
entitled to decide what risks they want to cover. And in this policy  its decided  not to cover 
properties that havent been lived in for more than 30 days  for certain types of damage, 
unless additional  steps are taken  to reduce the risk of leaks.  
So if St Andrews had known the property wasnt being lived in, it would only have accepted 
claims for damage if, amongst other things, the water had been turned off and the property 
was inspected regularly.  I accept the property  was visited regularly, but the water  hadnt 
been turned  off. And the property hadnt  been  lived in for around 18 months at the time of 
the claim,  much longer  than the 29 days Mr G refers to. So I think Mr Gs breach of the 
policy terms for unoccupied properties has prejudiced St Andrews position  because if the 
water had been turned off the damage would never have happened.  So I dont think  its 
acted unfairly in relying on the unoccupancy exclusion. 
St Andrews  also says if it had known  the property was empty,  it would have ended cover  in 
August 2017.  It says it will only insure  an unoccupied property for a year.  Ive seen its 
underwriting notes and Im satisfied this is the action it would have taken had it known about  
the occupancy  of the property. So I dont think its acted unreasonably in cancelling  the 
policy from August 2017. I note its refunded  the premium Mr G paid which  I also think is fair. 
I say this because  had St Andrews been  aware of the unoccupancy of the property when 
the policy became  due for renewal, it would have refused  cover. So its fair now that Mr G 
gets his money  back for a policy that wouldnt otherwise have been renewed.
I accept Mr G says its the brokers fault that St Andrews  wasnt  aware of the property being 
empty. But I dont think it means it shouldnt apply its policy terms. So I think St Andrews 
has acted fairly in declining the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4133004