K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr L had ten instalment  loans with Sunny between January 2015 and October  2017.  The 
loan amounts varied from as little as £50 to as much  as £850.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  it be upheld  in respect of the 
sixth loan, approved  on 3 February 2017.  He thought proportionate checks  wouldve shown 
loan six was not sustainably affordable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicator,  so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  As 
theres been no ongoing dispute about the other nine loans, Ill focus my decision on the 
loan still in dispute.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ls case. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think in Mr Ls case  Sunny acted unfairly by approving the sixth loan. Ill explain why.
By the time of loan six (February 2017) Mr L had been borrowing from Sunny, with no real 
breaks between loans, for about  seven months. Although each  loan Mr L had taken was 
arranged on a 24 week basis, Mr L repaid loans two to five early. In some circumstances, 
the ability to settle  a loan early could be said to demonstrate that the loan was likely to have 
Ref: DRN40779122been settled sustainably. But after each instance of settling a loan early,  Mr L borrowed 
again  sometimes  on the same  day as settling a loan. With the exception  of the fifth loan, 
the amounts Mr L was borrowing  remained  fairly consistent  between  £700 and £850.
Loan five was still outstanding when Mr L asked for the sixth loan. This isnt in itself a 
problem. But taken  together with the fact that Mr L was borrowing for the sixth time in about 
as many months, with no break in the lending or reduction in the amounts being borrowed,  
I think Sunny  ought to have realised it was likely Mr L was likely struggling to settle  the loans 
in way which was sustainable  without  the need  to borrow again. 
Sunny carried out its usual affordability  assessment for loan six  this included  obtaining 
income (£2,951 per month) and expenditure (£1,392 per month) information from Mr L and 
carrying out credit checks. On this basis, Sunny says Mr L had £1,272 per month of 
disposable income, so the loan was affordable. It also doesnt think Mr L was over-reliant 
on its loans.
I dont think it will always be appropriate or necessary to rely on a pounds and pence 
affordability assessment  where there is other  information available to support  that a 
consumer may be unable to settle a loan sustainably. I think  the pattern of borrowing here 
demonstrated that Mr L was unlikely to have been  settling his loans  sustainably.
In Mr Ls case, I think Sunny wouldve also seen this had it carried  out proportionate 
affordability checks. I dont think it was proportionate to continue  to rely on Mr Ls declared 
disposable income figure of £1,272 per month when he was returning to borrow  so 
frequently.
Had Sunny  carried  out proportionate checks (such as asking Mr L for proof of income and 
outgoings) I think it likely wouldve seen  he was struggling to manage his debts in a 
sustainable way. From his bank  statements  Ive seen  he had an outstanding  loan with a 
payday lender  for £800, having only recently  repaid that same lender  £600. Hed also 
already taken out a number of other high-cost instalment loans for several thousand pounds 
each. I think Sunny wouldve seen a reasonably clear pattern of using credit to repay  credit  
in a way which wasnt sustainable. I dont think Sunny  couldve fairly  made  a decision to lend 
in these circumstances. 
Im therefore  upholding Mr Ls complaint about  loan six.
putting things right
Sunny should  refund  the interest and charges  Mr L paid on loan six (the loan dated 
3 February 2017). It should  add simple  interest  at 8% per year to the refund, from the date 
Mr L paid the interest and charges until the date of settlement. Sunny should also remove  
any adverse credit history  information  it has recorded in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN40779123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint  in part. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited must  put things right by taking the steps  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077912