K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc (when it was trading as Birmingham 
Midshires) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
To keep  things simpler, Ill just refer to Bank  of Scotland as the seller as it is responsible  for 
dealing with this complaint. 
background
In 2003 Mr S and Mrs K took out PPI alongside  a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage  
protection plan (TMPP) to protect their mortgage  repayments. This covered Mr S in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr S and Mrs K 
disagree. Mr S and Mrs K mainly say that the sales person  at the bank  strongly 
recommended taking out PPI and so they did so in order to ensure theyd get the mortgage 
they were applying for. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint.
Ideally Id expect  the paperwork to show whats likely  to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Bank  of Scotland  hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr S and Mrs K to show how they agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont 
think thats surprising.  The PPI was sold around 16 years ago. I wouldnt expect Bank of 
Scotland or Mr S and Mrs K to have kept all the paperwork for this long.  
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr S and Mrs K have said,  but what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. Where theres only limited 
information I have  to look at all the available  information and decide what  I think  is most 
likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Bank of Scotland  used to sell PPI 
around this time. And we already know from looking at other cases what  the process was 
when Bank  of Scotland sold TMPP. Ive no reason to think  that Bank of Scotland wouldnt 
have followed its normal sales process  here.  
So, I think its likely that PPI was discussed and recommended for Mr S and Mrs K. And 
whilst its understandable that theyve  forgotten this after so long, I think Mr S and Mrs K 
wouldve been aware at the time that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted  to 
have this insurance cover.
Ref: DRN44362802Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr S and Mrs Ks home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected. And, especially  as only Mr S was in paid work at the time, I can see why 
Mr S and Mrs K mightve felt PPI was useful.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr S and Mrs K decided they wanted to have the 
benefits PPI could offer. And the accident,  sickness  and unemployment cover was added to 
their mortgage at their request when they chose to buy it.
Halifax advised Mr S to take out the policy. If a business makes  a recommendation about 
PPI, it has to give important policy information  in a clear  way and take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr S was eligible for the policy  given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
PPI wouldve  protected  Mr S and Mrs Ks mortgage  repayments for up to 24 months per 
claim if Mr S was off work through accident  or sickness. This was significantly longer than 
Mr S couldve relied on his employer to pay him sick pay. So I think  this couldve been a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time for Mr S and Mrs K. And the policy  
wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months  per claim if Mr S lost his job and was 
unemployed. 
He couldve made  repeated  claims on the policy giving him long term cover  for the 
mortgage. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S and Mrs K told us about their savings at the time.  But 
I dont know if theyd  always have  had savings to rely on. And it looks  like they preferred not 
to spend savings, or they had other plans for that money, since  they took out this mortgage 
rather than invest all their savings to reduce their borrowing. Having PPI meant 
Mr S and Mrs K could depend on being able to continue  to keep any savings intact to spend  
on other things or to provide  financial  security  for the future. 
I dont know how long its likely that Mr S and Mrs K wouldve been  able to keep up the 
mortgage monthly repayments if Mr S was unable to work as only he was paid work. 
So I think PPI couldve been  useful to Mr S and Mrs K and it was a suitable recommendation 
for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ss case. So I think it unlikely that knowing  more  about what  the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr S and Mrs K off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Mr S and Mrs K about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out when they didnt have to 
have it and so appear  to have wanted this type of cover. Ive seen nothing  to suggest it was 
unaffordable for them. Taking into account  the cost and the monthly benefit that would be 
paid if a successful  claim  was made I think the policy couldve provided Mr S and Mrs K with 
a worthwhile benefit.  
Ref: DRN44362803Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr S and Mrs K wouldve made a different decision about 
taking out PPI if Bank of Scotland had given them better information.  So, even if there were 
failings in the way Bank  of Scotland sold them PPI, I dont find theyve lost out as a result  of 
anything that Bank  of Scotland  mightve  done  wrong.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4436280