K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr K took out in 2018, using the services of 
London and Country Mortgages  Ltd (L&C). Mr K is unhappy at how long the application  took, 
and says the delays resulted in him taking out a more expensive mortgage  than originally 
intended.
background 
In what follows, I have,  by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented, using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection 
of the informal  service we provide, and if I dont  mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This 
approach is consistent  with what  our enabling legislation  requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr K already  owned a property, free of mortgage.  He wanted to raise a mortgage  on it to buy 
another property.  He approached L&C in mid-June 2018 and was provided with an 
illustration for a mortgage with a lender Ill call H. The illustration was for a five-year  fixed 
rate of 1.89%. Mr K went ahead with the application  to H, and there then followed a process 
whereby information  and supporting documents were requested  and provided, so that H 
could approve  the application.
Unfortunately this process was protracted,  involving delays, duplication and, at times, 
failures on L&Cs part to contact Mr K as promptly as it should.  It was only on 
13 September 2018 that H issued the mortgage offer,  and by then, the 1.89% deal had been 
withdrawn. The offer from H was for a 1.94% five-year fixed rate, and this was drawn to 
Mr Ks attention on 18 September 2018. 
When Mr K  queried this, L&C said H also had a product at 1.84%, but this would require a 
new offer to be raised, which  it was anticipated  would take up to another week to produce. 
Worried that the prospect  of further delay  might cause him to miss his preferred date for 
completing the purchase, Mr K decided to go ahead with the 1.94% deal hed been offered. 
He then complained about how L&C had handled  his application.
L&C agreed that the service it had provided  hadnt  been all that it should be, but it didnt 
agree that all the delays were its fault.  It offered Mr K £50 compensation for his time and 
trouble, and when  the complaint came to us our investigator considered this a fair offer.  He 
didnt think L&C should compensate Mr K for the extra interest hell pay due to the change of 
product, as Mr K had chosen  to take it rather than wait a little longer for a cheaper deal to be 
offered. Mr K asked  for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Ref: DRN46273552Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  I dont 
have to answer every question posed of me; my remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
sometimes happen. Ive no doubt  that the three months it took for Mr K to get his mortgage  
offer must have been  a very annoying period  for him. Mortgage approval isnt an exact 
science, and theres no set length  of time for an offer to be provided. Nonetheless, three 
months is longer  than Id generally  expect,  but its true that not all of that delay was down to 
acts or omissions on L&Cs part. 
It wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment here on how H dealt with the application or 
whether its information  requirements were proportionate. But it would be equally 
inappropriate for me to hold L&C to account  for events  that were  outside its control. Taking  a 
step back, as I must, and assessing the wider  circumstances in their proper context, L&Cs 
shortcomings made a relatively modest contribution to the overall time frame,  and its fair 
that my award of compensation reflect that. That leaves the matter of the extra interest.
Mr K made his application on the basis of the illustration L&C provided, which  was for a rate 
of 1.89%.  However,  by the time H was ready to issue  an offer,  that product had been 
withdrawn, and in its place, there  were two alternatives; at 1.94%  and 1.84% respectively.  It 
was H, not L&C, which issued the offer at the higher of the two, and Mr K was given the 
option of having the offer re-issued on the cheaper  rate. 
I can appreciate why Mr K chose  not to take that option. Hed already waited  longer  than 
hed expected to get his mortgage  offer, and he was concerned  that a further wait might  
jeopardise his timetable and force him to push back his completion schedule. Ultimately  
though, the decision to continue on the 1.94% product was made by Mr K, and its possible 
he avoided other  costs and/or disruptions  by doing so. But he made that decision knowing 
that it would  mean hed pay more interest. That was Mr Ks right,  but it was also his choice, 
and he must  accept the consequences that flow from that.
Ref: DRN46273553my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct London and Country  Mortgages Ltd to pay Mr K £50. I make 
no other order or award.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627355