K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained Nationwide Building  Society  wont refund him £16,955 that was 
transferred from his savings account  without his consent.
background
On 14 March 2018 after logging on to his savings account, Mr A noticed there was only £45 
left in his account.  He phoned Nationwide to ask them to find out what  happened  and to 
refund him.
Between 6 and 10 March there  were  a number of transfers from Mr As account to two other  
accounts (although  most of the money went to one account only). Nationwide went to the 
bank where the funds  were transferred. All the funds had been  withdrawn  from the other 
account as soon as theyd  been received.
Nationwide wouldnt agree to refund Mr A. They couldnt see how someone else had been  
able to access Mr As account. This would need personal details only Mr A should know. 
Mr A had told them he often used internet cafes; these were a potential  point of compromise.
As Nationwide  wouldnt  refund  Mr A, he brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator carried out a detailed investigation. He noted that all the disputed  
transactions took place from a different IP address  to the ones Mr A had used. The 
transactions had also taken place on a phone Mr A didnt  have. He felt on balance Mr A 
hadnt made these  transactions.  Unlike Nationwide he did think the twice daily withdrawals 
until there was no money left were the actions of a fraudster. He also noted the main 
recipient of the funds had withdrawn all the funds immediately. This was the recognised  
behaviour of a fraudster.  He asked Nationwide to refund  Mr A.
Nationwide disagreed with this outcome. They pointed to a previous instance of fraud that 
had happened  when Mr A had an account  with another  bank. They felt this was similar to the 
claim Mr A had now made. They were also unsure where his savings account  funds  had 
originated from. Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider Mr As complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 14 February  2020. I also upheld  the complaint for 
similar reasons.  I had, however, tried to get information  from Mr As other bank about a 
previous fraud instance. This hadnt  matched what Nationwide  had told us.
Nationwide continued  to object but provided  us with no further  information.  Mr A accepted 
this outcome.  
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as in my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
Ref: DRN40018192in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their bank 
details. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Nationwide and Mr A have told us. Ive also been in contact with the other 
banks where Mr A (or his business) had an account.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 29 May 2019. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The following  issues  are relevant to how Ive considered  this complaint:
Mr A only opened this savings account  in late 2017. He provided a clear trail showing 
where the money had come from including income  from his business and a loan from 
another bank.  Mr A confirmed this to Nationwide  as well.
All of the disputed  transactions were made using a different  device  and from different 
IP addresses than Mr A had used.
Mr A used  internet  cafs. Nationwide seem to find this surprising but this is a location 
many people  use when they dont have  a decent  Wi-Fi  supply  at a home address.
I think this clearly  provides a point of compromise. Nationwide has questioned how a 
third party  would  have  got all the details  needed to access Mr As Nationwide 
account. Particularly as some account details are only provided through a drop-down 
menu. I accept the argument that even  if someone was monitoring Mr As key 
strokes, they wouldnt necessarily know all the answers to the questions  as Mr A 
would only ever be providing a small selection of potential answers.
As Nationwide were unable to provide  further  details, our investigator accepted 
Mr As evidence  that hed changed  his security information whilst at an internet caf.  
This would  have given an unknown third party access to his account and the ability  to 
carry out the transactions.
I agree  with our investigator that the withdrawals from Mr As savings account  in 
dribs and drabs rather than in one amount  resemble fraudulent behaviour  as much  
as the money  being withdrawn all at once. In fact this could be the behaviour  of 
someone trying not to trigger any safety  mechanisms that Nationwide had in place to 
protect Mr As funds.
Ive also seen that the transferred  money was taken out in cash and transferred from 
that account practically immediately.  This also suggests something fraudulent  was 
going on.
Nationwide claimed that Mr A had made  a similar fraudulent claim with one of his 
other banks. Actually I cant  see this is completely true. A fraudulent cheque was paid 
into Mr As other  bank account but we were  told Mr A hadnt paid in that cheque  
himself nor got any funds from that cheque. It may be the case  that Mr A was 
concerned someone could have got his bank details through  his use of an internet 
caf but this doesnt  seem to be a large  feature of what  happened. It is true though 
that bank then gave Mr A 60 days notice to close his account.  Ive taken this into 
account.
Ref: DRN40018193Nationwide was concerned that there  was no credit history for Mr A before 2017.  This 
is less surprising when you discover  Mr A only came to this country  in 2016 and set 
up his business  in June 2017.
Mr A also had a business account with another bank. This was closed in 
December 2019 when the bank  wrote off a bad debt.
Its certainly true that Mr A seems  to have had a series of unlucky events in his relationships  
with his banks   both fraud and debt issues. That wouldnt necessarily make  him unusual.
I have considered the likelihood  that Mr A authorised the transactions  himself and hoped  to 
benefit from Nationwide refunding him. Overall I dont think this is likely but I appreciate this 
is possible. On balance I have come to the conclusion Mr A didnt  make  or authorise these 
transactions himself.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund Mr A £16,955 that was taken from his savings account without his 
authorisation;
Pay him the interest rate that would have been  payable on his savings from the date 
the amounts were  transferred  out until the date of settlement;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001819