K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (AIU) wont  pay for repairs after 
a claim made on his insurance policy that covers him for certain damage that might occur to 
his car. He wants it to pay for the repairs  up to the policy limit.
background
Mr P scratched the bodywork of his car and made a claim to AIU. This was initially  accepted 
based on photographs. But its mobile  repairer then said it couldnt  make the repair  under the 
policy and said it would  have to be done in a body shop. AIU said the policy  limit for this was 
£150. But Mr P was unhappy with this and wanted  AIU to pay for the repairs  up to the 
cosmetic repair  limit which  was £1,000.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
repairer had reasonably decided that on further  inspection the scratch didnt meet the 
requirements for a mobile repair. And she thought  AIU had offered to contribute £150 
towards the repairs to be made in a body  shop which was the policy  term and condition.  
Mr P replied  that he thought it was unfair for AIU to accept the claim and then to decline it. 
He felt unfairly treated. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps disappointment and frustration that his claim was initially accepted 
but then declined after photographs of his car were  further inspected by a different 
technician. I can see that he accepts that AIU is only obliged to contribute  £150 towards the 
body shop costs  as this is the policy limit. But he feels  that AIU should  go beyond  the policy 
terms and conditions and honour the original acceptance of his claim for repairs.
But this isnt something that I can require AIU to do. Our approach in cases like this is to 
consider whether the insurers acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I can see that the policy limit is £150 for minor cosmetic repairs  that cant be made by the 
mobile service and where the repair isnt subject  to a claim on a motor insurance policy. The 
decision about whether the repair can be made  is determined by the approved repairer.
In Mr Ps case, the approved  repairer said the repair  couldnt be completed under the size 
limits of the cosmetic repair policy as there  needed to be blending of the paint across the 
doors. This was only apparent after its second technician  had inspected  photographs of the 
car and noted  the special paintwork that would  require  blending  across  doors  to achieve the 
desired finish. The size of the repair then meant it wasnt suitable  for mobile  repair and 
would have to be done in a body shop.  
Ref: DRN45145542So I think AIU acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. I think  mistakes  can occur  
and the first technician didnt notice the special paintwork.  I can understand Mr Ps 
disappointment. But I also think AIU acted fairly and reasonably as it correctly applied  the 
policy terms and conditions. The appointment was cancelled so Mr P wasnt  then caused 
inconvenience. AIU apologised for the confusion caused by the change  in its decision. I think  
that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  So I dont require  it to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4514554