K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about loans granted to him by Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(Provident or the lender). Mr D says that the loans  were not affordable  and should not 
have been agreed. 
Mr D has brought his complaint to this Service via a claims management company. For 
simplicity, I will refer to Mr D throughout this decision.
background
Provident agreed eight loans for Mr D from December 2009 to April 2014. The loan terms 
varied from 14 to 63 weeks and some of the loans ran concurrently. The below table sets out 
some of the information  Provident provided about  these loans (with numbers rounded to the 
nearest pound). 
Loan  
numberStart EndPrincipal 
(£)Total to 
pay (£)Term 
(weeks)Rate (£)
1 03/12/2009 10/08/2010 200 336 48 7 
2 24/05/2012 18/09/2012 350 630 60 11 
3 12/11/2012 03/09/2013 450 632 52 12 
4 01/07/2013 18/04/2014 500 910 52 18 
5 24/09/2013 24/12/2013 100 140 14 10 
6 02/10/2013 12/03/2014 300 480 32 15 
7 05/03/2014 - 750 1,365 52 26 
8 17/04/2014 - 1,100 2,079 63 33 
I understand Mr D didnt completely repay  his final two loans  and the records  provided by 
Provident show that these were  written off in 2014. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ds complaint and found  that Provident  should not 
have agreed to Mr Ds final two loans taken out in 2014. Neither party  has responded to this 
adjudication and so the complaint has come to me, as an ombudsman,  for review and final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  these  types of loans  - including the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. And Ive followed this approach.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Provident, and to some extent  for Mr D also, and I hope  my explanation  
below makes it clear why I have come  to this conclusion.
The Office  of Fair Trading  was the regulator  for consumer  credit during the time Provident 
agreed loans for Mr D, apart from his final loan which was agreed  just after the Financial 
Conduct Authority  became  the regulator. Under both regulators, in order to lend responsibly, 
Provident needed to make  a reasonable assessment as to whether or not Mr D could  afford 
Ref: DRN46641422to meet  its loan repayments in a sustainable  manner. Neither the law nor the regulators 
specified exactly how the assessment was to be carried out but, whatever the method, it 
needed to be enough to assess  the sustainability of the arrangement  for Mr D. 
Its important to note that this means the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed. It 
was not an assessment of the risk to Provident of recouping its money, but of the risk to 
Mr D in having difficulty meeting his repayments,  experiencing adverse  consequences or 
incurring or increasing  problem indebtedness.  The assessment  needed to be proportionate 
to both the circumstances of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, 
a lender might need to be flexible in its approach  to making such an assessment  what  was 
reasonable for one consumer might not be so for another,  or indeed what  might be 
reasonable for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in 
other circumstances.   
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
-the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D said that he was in financial difficulties when he borrowed  from Provident. He explained 
that he had defaulted on some of his debts, which had been sold on to debt collectors 
throughout 2012 to 2014. I dont  doubt that things were difficult  for Mr D financially however, 
he hasnt been  able to provide this Service with any further evidence about his financial 
circumstances at the time beyond what he has told us through  his representative. 
Mr D first borrowed from Provident  in late 2009. The loan was for £200 with a weekly 
repayment of £7. It seems  from the customer records provided  that Mr D repaid his first loan 
on time and with few problems. I note that there was a gap of over 18 months between Mr D 
repaying his first loan in 2010 and borrowing again from Provident in 2012. His second loan 
was for £350  and was repaid early. And there  was a gap of about two months  then before 
Mr D took out his third loan.
The information Provident provided  to this Service included Mr Ds loan agreements and a 
copy of the application forms for some of his loans. The lender also provided a summary of 
the information it gathered from a credit reference  agency about Mr Ds finances from his 
fourth loan onwards. 
The application forms Provident provided show that when Mr D applied for his second, third 
and fourth  loans he declared a weekly income of £200 to £300, with weekly  outgoings of 
Ref: DRN46641423£100 to about £200. I note that he said at the time of his second loan that hed been in his 
current job for four years. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr Ds income and expenditure 
was very different  to this for his first loan, or indeed  his fifth and sixth loans taken out within  a 
few months of his fourth. 
This might suggest that Mr D could afford to meet his loan repayments for loans 1 to 6 in a 
sustainable manner.  Bearing in mind  the length  of time these loans were scheduled to run 
for  in other  words, that Mr D would  need  to meet his repayments not just once but over 
many weeks  and months - I think Provident should  have independently verified what hed 
told it about his income  and expenditure to be able to reasonably  assess whether or not he 
could sustainably meet his repayments.  However, with the limited  information available  to 
me, its difficult  to come  to a view as to what the lender might  have found out about Mr Ds 
circumstances, had it carried  out more comprehensive checks. The credit  reports  provided  
by Provident from the time of loans 4, 5 and 6 show that Mr D had two historic defaults  and 
had a satisfied  or discharged public information record  but this information alone doesnt  
persuade me that Mr D had such serious  current  problems managing  his money  that 
Provident was irresponsible to have agreed  to lend to him.
That said,  I can see that Mr D took out loan 4 just before he repaid loan 3. And he took out 
loan 6 just a week after taking out loan 5. So I think Provident ought  to have been concerned 
about whether  or not Mr D was becoming  reliant on its loans. And, in considering  this 
complaint, Ive kept in mind the overall  pattern of Providents lending history  with Mr D, with 
a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which the lender should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable and so should  not have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 7. At this point  Mr D had been  indebted to Provident almost continuously for about two 
years. He started this period by borrowing £350 and was now asking  for an amount of £750, 
with a loan still outstanding. This increased his account balance from a few hundred pounds 
to over £1,300  and potentially committed him to being indebted to Provident for another 
year. I think it should have  been  clear to Provident  at this point that Mr D wasnt managing to 
repay his loans sustainably and that his indebtedness was continuing and increasing. 
Provident agreed another loan for Mr D a month later. This had a term of over a year and 
took his total debt to over £3,000. The customer records show  that Mr D didnt fully repay  
these loans.
I think that Mr D lost out because these  two loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his 
indebtedness by allowing  him to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time. The 
number of loans  and the length of time over which he was indebted to Provident  was likely to 
have been seen negatively by other lenders and so potentially kept him in the market  for 
these high-cost loans.  And, as was foreseeable, he was unable  to repay them.  
Our usual  approach in putting  things  right in matters of irresponsible lending is that the 
borrower shouldnt  repay  more than the principal  amount borrowed. Our approach also 
usually considers it fair that a lender recovers the principal amount  given,  because  the 
borrower has had the use of these funds. I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Mr D 
but I dont see any reason  to depart from our approach here.
Ref: DRN46641424what Provident  needs to do to put things right
Ive concluded  that Provident shouldnt have provided loans 7 and 8 to Mr D, taken out in 
March and April 2014 respectively. In order to put this right Provident  should:
1)Remove any interest and charges which form part of the remaining balances  (which I 
understand were  written  off in 2014).
2)Treat any payments made by Mr D towards  these loans as payments  towards  the 
original capital amounts.
3)If this means Mr D has made  payments over and above the capital balances then it 
needs to refund these payments to him, along  with 8% simple  interest  from when the 
overpayment originated to the date the complaint is settled. (From  the account 
records provided it seems unlikely that this was the case.)
4)Alternatively, if this means  there is still a capital balance outstanding Provident needs 
to treat Mr D fairly and sympathetically which may mean  agreeing an affordable 
repayment plan with him.
If either  of these loans  has been  sold on, then Provident should seek  to buy this debts back 
or work with the new owner  to achieve  steps 1 to 4.
5)The overall pattern  of Mr Ds borrowing for these loans means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so if they still appear  on his credit  file Provident 
should remove them entirely, or work  with a third party to do so, once the debts have 
been settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Provident  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr D a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint in part and require 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  to put things right for him as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4664142