K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account and is seeking payment of the 
outstanding overdraft on it. 
background
In February 2019  payments were  made  from Mr Ss account  to a delivery company. He said 
he hadnt made them, and Santander  looked into things. It agreed  to refund the payments, 
blocked Mr Ss payment  card and issued him with a new one. 
Mr S also said that attempted payments to an online store at about the same time were  not 
his. Because his card had been  blocked, these werent successful.
About two weeks later Mr S tried to make  a payment using  his new card. The payment  was 
declined and Mr S queried  this with Santander. It said that the payment had been declined 
because the device being used with the card details was the same as that which had been  
used to make the earlier refunded and blocked  payments. Santander  then told Mr S that it 
was withdrawing  his banking facilities; it sought repayment of his overdraft. 
Mr S didnt think that was fair. He felt that Santander  was relying too heavily  on information 
about the IP address linked to the earlier  transactions. He repeated  that he had not been 
party to them. 
Mr S complained to this service, but our investigator thought  that Santander had been within 
its rights  to close  Mr Ss account.  The overdraft  was, he said,  repayable on demand and so 
Santander was entitled to seek  repayment  of it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
I dont believe that Santander has shown that the same device was used for all the 
transactions. Thats not to say it wasnt, only that theres no clear  evidence one way or the 
other. But its records do indicate that they were made from the same IP address. As Mr S 
has pointed out, though,  its possible to disguise an IP address; and if a mobile  device is 
used, the IP address  will change. So I agree with Mr S that this isnt necessarily  proof that he 
was, after all, responsible for the transactions that were refunded or blocked. 
However, I dont believe  that Santander had to show that to justify taking the decision to 
close Mr Ss account. It was entitled to end the banking  relationship  on giving two months 
notice in any event.  Unless its reasons  for closing an account arent legitimate (for example, 
if its unfairly discriminating or has to provide a basic account under the Payment Accounts 
Regulations 2015),  this service wont generally  intervene where  a bank decides not to 
provide or no longer to provide an account. I dont believe Santander unfairly  discriminated  
against Mr S here, or otherwise treated him unfairly. 
Whether or nor Mr Ss own device was used,  I can see why Santander might have been 
concerned and taken the view that it no longer wanted to provide Mr S with banking  facilities.  
As Ive indicated, a bank  should generally  give two months notice of account closure. 
Ref: DRN47489102Santander didnt  do that in this case;  it gave Mr S one months notice of closure. But in the 
circumstances I dont  believe that was unreasonable or unfair;  and Mr Ss concern is about 
the closure itself,  not the shorter period of notice he was given. 
As the investigator  explained, Santander  could call in the overdraft at any time and didnt 
need any particular  reason to do so. It could have done that even if it had kept the account 
open. It wasnt therefore unreasonable for it to seek repayment of it in this case. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Santander has treated  Mr S unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748910