K820x#14Complaint
Mr T says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1995.
Background
In November 2019, I issued my provisional  decision on this complaint which included the 
following:
Mr T took out a PPI policy which primarily protected his store card payments in the event of 
disability or unemployment. The parties agree the PPI was sold in-store.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld on the grounds that Mr T wasnt 
properly informed of the PPIs cost and benefits. If he had been, the adjudicator felt he 
wouldnt have taken  it because he had other  means of meeting his monthly card repayments 
if he wasnt working. 
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator,  so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ts case. 
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed  to make it clear to Mr T that he had a choice  about taking out PPI and get his 
agreement before adding it. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ts signed credit card application form 
and note that, under the section headed Payment  Protection, theres  a tick to indicate he 
wanted PPI. The box to tick to decline PPI was left blank. 
Overall, I think AXA made it clear to Mr T that he had a choice about taking out PPI and that 
he chose to take it. 
AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T. He hasnt said either  way, although  I think  its 
unlikely advice was given considering how these sales  took place generally. 
That said,  AXA still ought to have provided  Mr T with clear, fair and not misleading  
information about the PPI so that he could decide  for himself if it was suitable.  I cant say for 
sure whether  AXA did that. And I dont have  a copy of the specific  policy terms from the time.  
But, from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances  and experience of what  the main  features of 
the policy are likely to have been,  I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  it. 
I say that because, firstly, it seems Mr T would  have been eligible for the cover. And I dont  
believe hed have  decided  against  the PPI because of its exclusions and restrictions.  I 
accept that Mr T had suffered with health  conditions but these occurred when  he was a child.  
From what  hes told us, they were no longer an issue  for him at the time of the sale and 
hadnt impacted  on his ability to work  or on his daily activities.
Ref: DRN47815752Mr T says hed have got a generous  amount of sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer and that he could have relied  on savings to keep up with his payments  if he wasnt  
working. However, when  we recently  asked for clarification from his representative  as to his 
Mr Ts situation  in 1995, we were led to believe his savings werent significant. Whats  more, 
Ive doubts as to how much sick pay hed have been entitled to. For example, hes recently 
told us hed been with his then employer for more  than four years when the sale took place. 
But in referring his complaint to us, he said: 
At that time,  I was a new starter, who had been  in my job working less than 3 
months if I was not eligible I obviously should have been told this.  
So I cant say with any certainty how long Mr T had been with his employer for by 1995 or, in 
turn, what  his employment  benefits were at the time.
In any event, the PPI would have paid out on top of Mr Ts employers pay and savings, 
leaving him free to use those other means to cover  his other living  costs  if he was off work. 
The PPI benefits  would  potentially have paid out until the card balance was paid off. So I 
think Mr T would have  considered it provided  him with useful extra security. 
The death  in service benefit Mr Ts mentioned  refers  to an insurance policy that would  have 
paid out in the event  of his death.  The PPI, on the other  hand,  provided a monthly benefit in 
the event of disability or unemployment. So Im satisfied they covered different things and 
that there  was no material duplication  of cover.
Theres also nothing to suggest Mr T couldnt afford the PPI. And the PPI was flexible 
enough that Mr T could  have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if he decided  it was no 
longer suitable  for him.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Ts lost out because of how AXA sold him the 
PPI.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not minded  to uphold this complaint. 
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Neither AXA nor Mr T added anything to my provisional decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ts case.
As neither partys provided any further information  for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the decision I reached previously.
Ref: DRN47815753So, taking everything  into account, I still dont think Mr Ts lost out because  of how AXA sold 
him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4781575