K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold to Mr C in 1996, in connection with a mortgage hed 
taken out in 1991. The policy provided  cover for Mr C if he couldnt work  because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Cs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr C the information he needed  to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr C is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such  as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr C says he doesnt remember  taking  out the PPI, which started  a few years after hed 
arranged his mortgage. He thinks its unlikely he wouldve  taken it out part way through  the 
mortgage term. Ive noted  everything Mr C has said.  Im also mindful that its over twenty 
years since  the policy was sold, and that exact  recollections of what  happened  can fade over 
time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation  from the time the policy was sold.  Thats not 
surprising given the time thats passed,  and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that Halifax wouldve added the PPI to Mr Cs mortgage 
account if he hadnt agreed  to it. I think its possible that he may have  forgotten about the 
sale. So without anything  else to support  what Mr C has told me, I havent been able to 
Ref: DRN42162432safely conclude that Halifax didnt make him aware  that he had a choice about buying the 
PPI.
Halifax accepts that it probably advised  Mr C to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  I say this because:
-Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work  due to sickness or 
accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to Mr Cs employer sick pay, and 
wouldve meant  he could use those benefits  to pay for other expenses if he couldnt  work. 
So overall I think Mr C would have  had some use for the policy  despite  his existing 
arrangements.
-Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits, such as those 
affecting self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing  medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover I think it unlikely  Mr C needed better advice  or 
information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the policys  cost was made clear  to Mr C before  he agreed to buy it. But the 
policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it unlikely Mr C would 
have made a different decision if better  information  about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But as Ive already  said, Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  or limitations  and the 
policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely  Mr C would have made  a different decision if 
better information had been provided   overall,  I think he would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216243