K822xcomplaint
Ms J complains that in 2009 The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS)  had given her a loan 
that they should have  known that she couldnt afford and that she received a poor level of 
service when she tried to raise her concerns with them in September 2017.
background 
Ms J first started  borrowing from RBS in 2006.  Over the next couple of years she continued 
to borrow and set up several refinance  arrangements to pay off her loans. In 2008 RBS gave 
her a new loan to consolidate  the existing loan of £18,000 along with some debts from other  
companies. The new loan was to consolidate  all her existing debts so that she would  only 
need to make one loan repayment every month.
Soon after taking out the loan Ms J began experiencing financial difficulties and found it hard 
to make the payments. She approached  an organisation that helps  people  with debt (P) 
and they arranged a payment plan for Ms J with RBS. But Ms Js account  defaulted  in 2013 
for not making  her loan payments.
In 2016 P helped  Ms J arrange  a new repayment  plan with RBS and payments were 
successfully made until November 2016.  P then had difficulties making the payments, even 
though Ms J had enough money to make them. In August  2017  Ms J wrote to RBS asking  
for a copy  of the loan agreement and a list of all the payments she made  to the loan. She 
followed this with a complaint that it should never  have given her the loan as it wasnt  
affordable and wanted RBS to write it off.
RBS responded  to her complaint. They didnt accept that they had acted irresponsibly in 
making the loan.  In line with their procedure, they had carried out an affordability check 
which had indicated that Ms J could afford to meet the repayments. They  apologised for their 
lack of response in sending  her the information and offered a payment of £20 for the 
inconvenience. Ms J accepted  the £20 but was generally unhappy with their response. She 
also said she was unhappy  that shed been  contacted by a third party collection agent (W) 
that was asking her to make payments. In January 2018 she contacted our service.
Our adjudicator advised Ms J that we couldnt investigate  her complaint about the 
irresponsibility of RBS giving her the loan in 2008.  This was because it was outside the time 
limit in which the ombudsman can consider a complaint. Ms J accepted  this decision. 
However she was advised  that we would look into her complaint about  the service  she 
claimed to have received from RBS. Ms J accepted  this.
The adjudicator decided that RBS hadnt responded to Ms Js complaint in a timely manner 
and recommended that they pay Ms J £100  in compensation and RBS agreed. But they 
didnt think that RBS needed  to do any more. Ms J didnt accept this and asked for her case  
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  There are a number of different points 
that Ms J has raised here. Ive focused on what I think are the material issues and, for clarity, 
Ive broken down  my findings below.
Ref: DRN42567172RBS lending decision
Our adjudicator has explained to Ms J that her complaint  about  the sale of the loan has been  
made outside of the time limits that mean we can consider  it. As everyone agrees that this is 
the case, I wont go over that here as a part of this decision.
missing payments
I realise that Ms J feels very strongly  that RBS are to blame for the payments from P that 
didnt reach  her account. Ive seen what shes sent us and carefully considered what  shes  
said about this. But RBS have provided clear and consistent information to show that they 
didnt receive any payments. The payment  details  P was using appear to have remained the 
same and nothing  seems to have  changed, so I cant see why RBS wouldve had any issues 
with processing these payments. I realise  that Ms J has provided  some information from P 
that suggests that RBS refused the payments, but thats not reflected in RBSs records  as Id 
expect it to be if this were the case.
So where this information is contradictory I have to make my decision on what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened  here  on balance. And here, I dont think  that RBS refused 
these payments. I say this as theres  no information  to show  thats the case  from their 
records and Im not persuaded that the information  Ms J has sent shows that RBS are at 
fault here.
Id also add that it looks like P told Ms J that her payments werent being  received by RBS in 
November 2016,  but she didnt contact  it until June 2017. I cant see that Ms J contacted 
RBS about this to try and make the payments in a different way though.
appointing third party agents
Its not unusual  for a large organisation like RBS to use agents like W to collect debts for 
them. RBS was entitled to make  this decision as a business. Here, W was collecting the debt 
on RBS behalf   it hadnt bought the debt and didnt own  it. There  was an issue with the 
amount that W told her was outstanding,  but Ive seen that RBS clarified this and confirmed 
the correct amount. 
Because of the situation with the payments, RBS did then sell the debt to another agent,  
who does now own it. Ms J wants  to find a way forward with the debt and to be able to make 
payments to it. Id urge her to remain in contact with this agent thats currently  asking her for 
payment. Agents like this tend to be more flexible  with what  they can accept as payment, so 
hopefully shell be able to come to an agreeable way forward with it.
credit file
Ms J has also mentioned that shes unhappy  that information about  this debt being recorded  
on her credit  file. I realise why this is, however businesses are entitled to record  information 
about the conduct of accounts in this way. They are obliged to ensure that the information is 
accurate. Ms J has only provided limited extracts of her credit file  so its not clear what  
shes specifically unhappy with. 
While I understand that recording whats happened  with this account  may have an impact  on 
her. As long as its accurate, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell RBS to change how this is being 
recorded by it or the agents appointed to deal with the debt.
Ref: DRN42567173information about the loan
Ms J asked for information about  her loan in August 2017 but only received part of it.  She  
complained about this in September 2017  and again  asked for the information.  RBS didnt 
respond and didnt send her the information. RBS only responded when she chased  them  up 
in November 2017 after she had been contacted by W. At that time RBS admitted that they 
couldnt find her original complaint and asked her to send them a copy.
So, overall here, I think RBS communication was not as timely or as clear  as it could have 
been. They  have  accepted that their handling of Ms Js information  request and subsequent 
complaint was poor customer  service on its part. Had they provided  this earlier,  then Ms J 
wouldve known how much she owed  and this wouldve alleviated her concerns about  this 
and the contact from W. It took the intervention of the adjudicator before she received  the full 
information that she had requested.
RBS has apologised  for this and offered £100,  in total, for the trouble and upset  caused.  I 
think that, on balance,  RBS offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. It recognises the upset  caused by their handling  of the situation surrounding 
the information request and the confusion caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay Ms J compensation of £100 in total for the 
distress that its poor customer  service  caused her.
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc must pay the total compensation within  28 days of the date 
on which we tell it that Ms J accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the unpaid compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of 
payment at 8% per year simple
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Constantia Pennie
Ombudsman
* If RBS considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Ms J how much  its taken  off.  It should also give Ms J a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax .
Ref: DRN4256717