K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs S payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium mortgage PPI policy  taken out in 2002 when only Mr S 
was covered, and amended in 2007  when Mrs S also was added. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint was been passed  to me.
I reached a different view to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked 
for comments. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive carefully considered  the points made by Mr and Mrs S and by Nationwide. I will explain 
why I think this mis-sale complaint should not be upheld.
The adjudicator said there is a term of the policy which can restrict cover  for customers who 
have had medical conditions in the past. The adjudicator said they didnt think this was 
brought properly  to Mr and Mrs Ss attention  and that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have bought 
the PPI if theyd known.  This is because both Mr S and Mrs S had suffered from significant 
medical conditions  before their PPI cover  started.
Its not clear to me whether Mr or Mrs S would  have thought their conditions were  likely to 
return. But I can see the restriction only applied for the first 12 months  of the policy. After 
that, Mr S (and later Mrs S) would have been covered for up to 24 months if off work sick, 
even if their claim was related to their earlier medical condition. And the mortgage  was due 
to go on for a number  of years,  so the PPI would have offered a significant  amount of 
sickness cover unaffected by this restriction. It also provided cover if they lost their jobs.
Mr and Mrs S say the policy was sold in a meeting. If thats  right, I dont know what  
Nationwide told them about it, if anything,  before they took it out. Mr and Mrs S have said 
they were given an information leaflet.  But even if that didnt give clear  enough  information,  
I dont think better information  would have made  them  change  their mind about  taking PPI. I 
think theyd still have  thought it worth  the cost long term. 
Ive thought about other reasons that might  mean  the PPI was mis-sold, but I dont think  it 
was because:
I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional, and that they 
still chose to take it. The PPI is presented as a choice in the separate  PPI application 
form, and Mr and Mrs S have made  clear  to us they knew  they had a choice and 
decided to have  it. 
Nationwide probably didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, as being particularly 
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr and Mrs S to decide whether it was suitable.
Ref: DRN49225532Mr and Mrs S have  suggested that Nationwide did make a recommendation to them  of 
PPI. This could be significant, because a recommendation would need to have been  
suitable taking  into account their individual  needs. But, even if I did conclude 
Nationwide recommended the PPI in that way, it would  not change  my decision.  
Mr and Mrs S have  described their secure  employment, their forms of income and the 
other means they could fall back on. But not being able to pay a mortgage  can cause 
significant difficulties,  and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and potentially for longer. And it wouldve left intact 
any savings they may have had. So, if they did lose income  due to sickness  or 
unemployment, their finances  would have  been  in a better state for longer. So it would 
have been potentially useful and I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to recommend 
it, if indeed it did so. 
In response to my provisional decision Nationwide had nothing  further to add. Mr and Mrs S 
emailed and explained why they didnt agree with me. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr and Mrs S have  said. But I still dont think the PPI was 
mis-sold in the way they believe.  
Mr and Mrs S made several  points, and I have given my thoughts about these, below. 
Mr and Mrs S said:
Mr S had had very good employment  conditions,  when he had previously been in 
public service. 
But those  were before the sale of the PPI sales that I have looked at. So  it wouldnt have 
been a consideration when taking the PPI. 
The sickness benefit Mr S would have received from his new employer would have 
gone up each  year; and it was unlikely hed have  been made redundant.
But I still think, at the actual  time of the sale of the policies, the policy  benefits  potentially 
would have lasted  longer  than his sick pay, and might have proved useful. 
Nationwide has paid back  Plevin  commission, and this shows  the adviser  had the 
incentive of earning commission  when saying  they should take PPI. 
I agree  that the presence of commission could have been an incentive for the adviser 
(though I dont know whether individual employees  received commission,  rather than 
Nationwide as a business). But that doesnt by itself mean that the sale of PPI was unfair.
Later on, Nationwide  didnt  check that the PPI was still needed. 
Ref: DRN49225533Ive only looked  at the circumstances when the sales  of PPI were made. If Mr and Mrs S 
think they were in some way misled, or otherwise  treated  unfairly in the administration  of 
their accounts, they would need  to riase  that as a separate matter with Nationwide. 
So, I still dont think the PPI was mis-sold (other than in respect of the Plevin commission).
Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4922553