K820x#14Complaint
Ms T complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of a claim under her home insurance  
policy.
Background
Ms T has a home insurance policy with Zurich  which covers  buildings contents, home 
emergency and personal possessions, amongst other things.
In May 2018, Ms T had an accident which led to blood spilling  onto some  of her carpets. She 
made a claim to Zurich  under the contents section  of her policy.
Zurich sent an independent  expert to assess the damage. Their view was that the carpets 
should be replaced rather than cleaned. And they costed the replacement at just over 
£3,900.
Ms T obtained her own quote, which came to just over £4,700. This included  around £650 
for new underlay.
Zurich agreed to pay Ms Ts quoted price for the carpets  upping their original offer from the 
£3,900 or so quoted  by their supplier by about £150.  But they said they wouldnt pay for 
replacement of the underlay.
Ms T made  a complaint  to Zurich. She thought  they should pay for the underlay. And she 
wasnt happy with delay and confusion in the way the claim was handled. This meant, for 
example, shed taken  four days off work rather than the two which  should  have been 
necessary.
Zurich accepted there had been unnecessary delays with the claim and gave Ms T £100 in 
compensation. 
But they maintained that they wouldnt pay for replacement  of the underlay. They  said there 
was no evidence it had been damaged in the incident. And the expert had said it needed 
replacing due to wear  and tear and gradual  deterioration. 
Ms T wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Zurich  had done anything  wrong. He didnt think Zurich were obliged  to 
replace the underlay. And he thought the compensation already provided was fair and 
reasonable given the extent of the delays in the claim handling.
Ms T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there were  some minor  delays in the handling of the claim. And that Ms T had 
at least one day off work for an appointment which wasnt  kept.  I understand how frustrating 
that must  have been.
Ref: DRN45448562Zurich have accepted there were issues and theyve  given Ms T £100 in compensation. I 
think thats fair and reasonable  when  I look at the overall time taken to deal with the claim. 
The incident  happened  in early May 2018.  The claim would have been settled by early June, 
but Ms T preferred to get her own quote.  Zurichs  final offer was made in late June. And 
Ms T got the final response to her subsequent complaint  which involved Zurich re-
considering their position on the claim  by mid-July.  So, I cant say the delays were  
significant.
As for the underlay,  theres no dispute that it needed  replacing.  The key question  is why.
Zurich are relying on the report from the expert they commissioned  to assess  the state of 
Ms Ts carpets.  Their  report said the blood  didnt seep  through  the carpet  and didnt damage 
the underlay. 
They thought the underlay would need  to be replaced because  it had deteriorated  over time 
due to wear and tear. And theyve subsequently clarified  for Zurich that if the underlay  had 
been in better condition  before the incident, a properly qualified  carpet  fitter would have been 
able to re-use it when  fitting the new carpets.
Ms T says when the new carpets were  fitted, the exposed underlay was clearly stained. 
Shes provided photographs to show this. And she says this was caused by the blood.
Shes also been advised  by her supplier   that underlay shouldnt be re-used when fitting  
new carpets. A view she says is confirmed by other  carpet specialists, for example on their 
websites. That being the case, she says Zurich should replace the underlay with the carpet 
as a matter of course.
I think opinion is divided about whether  existing  underlay can be re-used with new carpets. 
Some experts seem to say it cant. Some say it can as long as its in reasonable condition.  
And some say it can, but it might  reduce  the life of the carpet to a greater or lesser extent.
I dont think I need  to resolve  that particular debate though, because as I say, everyone 
accepts that in this particular  case, Ms Ts underlay needed replacing and shouldnt have 
been re-used.
If that was because of damage caused  by the spillage of blood, then Zurich should  pay for 
the underlay. Everyone agrees Ms Ts policy covers damage caused by that incident.
If the underlay wasnt damaged in the incident,  but had suffered wear and tear, Zurich arent 
obliged to pay for the replacement. The policy has a clause which says Zurich  will not pay for 
damage to contents  where this results  from:
gradual causes including deterioration or wear and tear. 
That kind of clause is common in home  insurance policies. Its isnt inherently  unfair   wed 
expect an insurer to cover damage caused by an insured event but not to replace things 
worn out through age or use over time. And its set out clearly  in the main body of the policy.
I have to ask Ms T to accept that its not my role to re-assess her claim. What  I have to do is 
ask whether Zurich  have  acted fairly  and reasonably  in the way theyve handled  the matter.
Ref: DRN45448563Zurich have relied on a view offered by a qualified  and recognised expert.  The expert said 
the blood didnt seep  through to the underlay   and the underlay was suffering from wear  
and tear.
I know Ms T disputes some  of the things  the expert said in their report. She says they didnt 
actually carry out the tests  they said they did. And they didnt inspect  the underlay.
I dont think I can resolve  that dispute  about the facts at this stage .Theres  clearly a conflict  
of evidence about what happened on the visit, but theres no recording of the visit and there 
are no other witnesses. 
Again, the question  for me is whether Zurich have acted fairly and reasonably.  They have 
one expert  report about the state of the carpet and underlay after the incident. And that 
report says there was no damage  to the underlay resulting from the incident in question.
I dont think its unreasonable for Zurich to rely on that in the absence  of any persuasive 
evidence to the contrary. And I note Zurich  told Ms T that if she had any such  evidence,  
theyd re-consider their position.  Again, I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Ms T says shes provided that evidence in the form of the photographs of the underlay taken 
at the time the new carpets were fitted.
Those photographs do show some staining  to the underlay. But theres  no evidence to 
suggest those  stains are necessarily related to the incident in question.  And they were so 
faded by the time the photographs were taken that its impossible  to say they were caused  
by blood.
So on balance, taking  into account all the available evidence, I cant  say its unreasonable  
for Zurich to maintain their position  that the underlay  wasnt damaged  as a result of the 
insured event. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4544856