K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the handling  of his claim via ACE Europe Life SE. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this policy as follows  
Mr R holds a policy with ACE that pays out when he cannot work due to injury.  On 6 April
2016 Mr R had an accident, he sent a claim form for this to ACE in June 2016. The claim
seems to have been for a dislocated shoulder, although there also seems to be a later rib
injury that has also been  claimed for.
ACE, via its medical adviser, didnt think the whole  claim was payable. It thought that a
shoulder injury of the type Mr R experienced should  only have kept him off work for 6 weeks
at most. Mr R complained  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and didnt find in Mr Rs favour. So Mr R has
asked for an ombudsman review of his case.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current  view is that ACE dont have to pay any more. But there  are elements I would like
both sides to comment on before I make  any final decision.
It appears that the policy in question expires  on the policyholders 75th birthday, which  in this
case seems to be October 2016.  I did ask the investigator  to raise this issue with ACE,  as it
does mean  no benefit is payable  after that date, but ACE have said that any current claim
would continue to be paid irrespective of birthday.
Ive also noted  that Mr R seems to have been  insured  as a painter / decorator but suffered
his injury whilst putting  up fencing. It appears though that ACE dont wish to take issue  with
this matter either, even  though they presumably assessed Mr Rs risk profile based him
being a painter / decorator.
So, on the basis that ACE dont dispute  cover and when the policy ends I have looked at the
benefit payable.  The monthly amount doesnt  seem  in question, just the actual length of
claim. ACE have said they paid full benefit from 6 April 2016 to 17 May 2016, and then
partial benefit from 18 May 2016 to 2 June 2016. Mr R says he was disabled until 30
January 2017  and wants the rest of his money. Mr R was paid for his rib injury from 3 June
2016 to 15 July 2016, but he says he should be paid twice re the overlapping elements as
his policy  doesnt  say it wont pay if another policy is paying out.
As this is a disability claim I had given careful  regard  to the medical evidence in this case.
But unfortunately this isnt that helpful. A note from Mr Rs GP gives partial  disability dates of
7 April 2016 to 1 November 2016,  so this doesnt  fit with either Mr Rs or ACEs view of
events. Some hospital notes from April 2016 advise gentle exercise of the shoulder and only
to avoid heavy  lifting, which  presumably might mean  Mr R could do painting  and decorating
but maybe not fencing. There is also mention in the medical notes of arthritis being an issue.
I have taken note of the policy wording, which states  that any accident must cause the loss
solely and independently. This doesnt  mean  that any claim isnt payable because  of the
Ref: DRN48095882arthritis issue, but does raise further  issues over the claim. The wording also talks about
usual business  and occupation, which again  raises questions over the painting  and
decorating versus fencing.
Taking all of the above into account I am not currently minded  to ask ACE to pay any more
to Mr R. I think there are some doubts over what occupation he was insured for here, when
the policy might end, and whether the medical evidence supports his view that he couldnt
work over the period  in question. Particularly when you consider  his insured occupation
seems to be painter  and decorator.
I also dont agree with him over the double benefit issue,  the policy covers him for not being
able to work, it doesnt matter whether that is for one reason or multiple reasons, and it is
just one payment.  If he held two policies things might be different, but as its one policy  it is
only one payment.
Since my provisional decision ACE have no further  points to add. Mr R responded to say 
that he was working  on the fence as a favour  for a friend, that the claim should have paid out 
until at least January 2017  as he was still injured then, and that his shoulder is still causing 
him problems. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing my mind from the provisional decision, Ill explain why. 
Im not sure it matters  that much in the context of the claim whether the fencing work  was 
being done as a favour, or formed part of Mr Rs occupation. But, I do think  Mr Rs claim fails 
on other grounds. 
The policy needs  any accident to be the sole cause of the disability and I dont have the 
proof to agree  that here. Mr R says his shoulder is still giving him problems but that probably 
only helps the suggestion that he has arthritic changes in his shoulder, not caused by the 
injury, but by the wear and tear on him over the years. 
I also note Mr Rs contention that his claim should still be being paid, but the medical records 
here clearly show his doctor saying the disability  lasted from April 2016 to November 2016. 
That doesnt  fit with the account Mr R gives, and without competing medical evidence I 
couldnt ask ACE to pay more. Plus I still think the issue  of other  medical issues  relating to 
wear and tear rather than a particular accident  would  defeat any ongoing claim, and any new 
claim is defeated by his age as cover has now stopped. 
Ref: DRN48095883my final decision
I make  no award against ACE Europe  Life SE. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4809588