K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Finance  Ltd refused to let him reject a car.
background
In February 2018  Mr C bought a second hand  car costing  £3,195  with hire purchase finance 
provided by Advantage. It was some  10 years old and had done  around 114,000 miles. A 
few days after purchase a warning light came  on and Mr C took the car back  to the dealer. It 
suggested the diesel particulate  filter (DPF) was the cause and recommended he take it for 
a long drive.  Apparently this cleared the problem. A couple of weeks  later the brakes seized 
and Mr C spent £290 on having these fixed. 
In early March the warning light came on and got no response from the dealer so he took it 
to another garage which reported that there  was a fault on DPF electrical circuit. Found 
DPF sensor wires to be cut and tape into loom. Check DPF (blocked). Check  turbo (found 
turbine and seal to be worn. It estimated the cost of repair to be around  £2,190.  
He contacted Advantage and it arranged for an independent report to be carried  out. The 
engineer said that: Under bonnet the wiring to /around the rear of the engine  /EGR valve is 
untidy with insecure  tape wrapped around  parts of it. He also concluded that the car had 
engine performance  problems which was probably  due to a combination of sticky EGR 
valve which is the result of soot and carbon contamination this in conjunction with the DPF 
filter been partially blocked is resulting in the vehicle going into limp mode intermittently.
He concluded  this was due to long term usage  and couldnt identify any mechanical failure of 
the DPF, EGR valve or turbocharger. He also noted  the car passed  its MOT  on 19 
September 2017 when it had done 113,066  miles which indicated it had no issues  at that 
point. As such Advantage rejected Mr Cs request  to reject the car and so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
It was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said as 
the fault occurred shortly  after purchase  it was reasonable for Advantage to have arranged  
for an independent report. He noted  Mr C and Advantage differed on the likely cause and he 
had to take a view bearing  in mind the independent evidence. 
He didnt think the report covered all the questions raised by Mr C and he had reservations  
as the engineer hadnt commented in detail about the effect  of the wires being  cut and the 
EGR valve being taped together.  He accepted the wiring and EGR valve  shouldnt  be like 
this, but he was unsure as to the effect  of this.
The information provided by Mr C suggested the DPF system did work at the time of 
purchase as it cleared  up after the initial problem in February 2018. The seal and the turbine 
on the turbo were  worn and this meant oil leaked out and caused further blockage to the 
DPF, but there was no suggestion of mechanical  or material  failure. The adjudicator  thought 
this pointed to the cause  of the problem being due to wear  and tear. 
Mr C didnt agree and said the wires to the DPF sensor had been  cut and not those to the 
EGR.
Ref: DRN40217102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Advantage is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr C, but after due deliberation I find myself in agreement  with 
the adjudicator.  The car was elderly and had done a fairly high mileage when  Mr C bought it 
and it is not unusual for issues  to surface which may not have been present at the point  of 
sale. Wear and tear will gradually and over time result in parts of the car failing. 
Mr Cs mechanic has said the wire to the DPF had been cut, but without explaining  the 
impact of this. Mr C has said this resulted in the issue not being obvious. If that was the case  
I am not sure how a warning light came on showing there was a problem a week or so after 
the sale. It is not unusual for a long drive  to clear dirt and soot from the DPF and this is what  
seems to have occurred in Mr Cs case. 
The inspector has referred to the wiring being  untidy and not being properly secured, but not 
that the wires were  cut. That would suggest that the state of the wiring had no connection 
with the fault which  subsequently  developed. Therefore I have to consider if the fault was 
present at the point of sale. The independent expert  thinks  not and I have not seen  any 
evidence that would  allow me to disagree  save for the fact the fault occurred soon  after the 
sale. However, I am also aware  that Mr C did several thousand miles in the car which 
suggests it was satisfactory  at the point of sale.
Therefore while  I can understand Mr Cs point of view and he may well have been 
unfortunate that the car developed  a fault after he acquired it I cannot safely  conclude that 
Advantage has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN40217103my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
23 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4021710