K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) failed to find him and his son suitable 
alternative rental accommodation  following  a fire at his home address. Instead Mr R and his 
son had to stay in a hotel  for six months.  During  this time no work  was carried out to his 
home and Mr R wants UKI to repair his property. The claim was made under Mr Rs home 
insurance policy and so Ill refer just to him throughout  this complaint.
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and representatives.
background
Mr Rs home  was damaged by fire. So, he made a claim to UKI under  his buildings 
insurance policy. 
A decision was made that the property  was uninhabitable after the fire and UKI agreed to 
cover the cost of alternative accommodation. Mr R and his son were  put in a hotel on a 
temporary basis whilst attempts to find a short-term rental property  began.
Mr R says UKI werent proactive in finding  accommodation. He says he found several 
suitable places.  But Mr R felt UKI didnt act fast enough so the properties  were let out to 
other people  who had acted more quickly. He also said UKI wouldnt agree with landlords  
over the terms of the tenancy meaning  that the opportunity to rent these  houses  fell through.
But the real point made by Mr R that led to his complaint was that he felt UKI started 
threatening to end the arrangement with the hotel if a short-term rental wasnt  found. Mr R 
felt this was unfair as he was doing  everything  he could to find a suitable alternative  rental  
home. Mr R said being in a hotel for such a long period had caused a great deal of stress 
and had an impact on his son who suffers with his mental health. Mr R pointed  out that 
throughout this time, UKI didnt do any work  to repair his property.
UKI didnt  agree. It said it offered  numerous properties to Mr R. But it said there were 
difficulties as landlords wouldnt accept Mr R due to his financial situation or Mr R would 
refuse the property or change his requirements.  It said Mr R wasnt co-operating, and so UKI 
reached a point where it said it wasnt prepared to continue paying  for the hotel.  However, it 
did continue to pay for several  further  months.
UKI said it couldnt start works on the property as its investigations into the cause of the fire 
were still ongoing.  UKI said it wasnt in a position  to accept  liability for the claim. Eventually 
UKI declined  the fire claim and said Mr R wasnt entitled to any further alternative 
accommodation costs  under  the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said UKI had demonstrated that it had 
taken reasonable  steps to locate and offer short-term rental  properties  to Mr R and his son. 
Our investigator noted UKI was covering  the cost of the alternative  hotel accommodation  
during that time. So, she felt UKI had acted reasonably and didnt need to do anything more.
Mr R didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN42788082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs home  insurance policy includes cover for loss or damage as a result  of a fire. It also 
extends to include  cover for the cost of alternative  accommodation while insured repairs are 
carried out if the home is unfit to live in, up to £50,000.
While Mr R and his son were placed in the hotel  a living allowance was also agreed  by UKI 
for him and his son.
There were numerous  options  and discussions around rental  properties.  Mr R gave details to 
UKI of a property hed been declined for due to income, he also provided details of a home 
he felt was similar in size to his existing home. UKI found a property with the required six 
month let but Mr R declined it as he felt the area it was in was too rough. UKI arranged for 
letting agents  to contact Mr R but unfortunately, he said he couldnt  make some of the 
arranged viewings due to his own health  problems. There was some feedback  to UKI that 
Mr R had said he was settled in the hotel. Some other properties were  declined as Mr R 
didnt feel they were the same size as his home.
Eventually UKI said Mr R wasnt co-operating in finding  and arranging  alternative rental 
accommodation. UKI felt Mr R wanted to stay in the hotel but it said it wasnt cost effective 
and would use up all of the policy allowance too quickly. But due to Mr Rs ongoing health  
problems UKI reconsidered.
UKI decided  to limit the amount it would pay going  forward to the cost it wouldve paid for a 
six month rental property.  It gave  the details of the amounts to Mr R and confirmed that if he 
wanted to remain  in the hotel, hed have to pay any extra costs on top of the amount it 
provided. Just before  the date for this new arrangement to take place Mr R appointed his 
own loss assessor (H) to deal with UKI and the claim  on his behalf.
At this point there  was some further  action regarding rental properties and in view of this UKI 
agreed to allow some  more time for Mr R to find a suitable property. It agreed to continue 
funding the hotel costs for a further  period  in the hope that a rental would be secured. 
Unfortunately, these further attempts came to nothing.
UKI said Mr R had been inconsistent about his alternative accommodation needs. Looking at 
properties many miles away but declining others much closer  to home as being too far away.  
UKI accepted that Mr Rs financial situation  didnt help matters.  UKI said in total Mr R had 
been offered 15 different rental property options. As time wore on UKI also noted that as the 
properties got more expensive it was less likely that landlords would accept  Mr R due to his 
finances. UKI said it looked at holiday lets and continued to fund the hotel costs while  it 
widened the search  for a property for Mr R.
After extensive investigations  into the actual claim UKI decided to stop the search for a 
rental and declined the claim. In this period  Mr Rs son caused some  damage  to the hotel 
who honoured the existing booking but said it wouldnt extend it any longer.
I dont think these details  show  that UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I can 
understand how Mr R felt threatened by the offer of cash. But after such  a period of time I 
accept UKI felt Mr R didnt want to leave  the hotel. Even after it made  the cash  offer it did still 
Ref: DRN42788083continue to pay the hotel costs when  it seemed a rental property might  be agreed with Mr R. 
I think thats fair.
UKI had found  rental properties  that Mr R decided not to accept. This was Mr Rs choice but 
UKI had been  clear  that it wanted  to find him a suitable rental property. So, at this point to 
offer to continue to pay what  it would cost for the rental property  going  forward doesnt  seem 
unreasonable. I can understand Mr R and his son wouldnt appreciate further upheaval 
especially with their own health issues. But I have to consider if UKI acted reasonably and 
considering how long it paid for the hotel  - I think it did.
UKI did take quite long time to investigate  the circumstances of the fire in Mr Rs home. But 
from looking at the file I can understand why. There were several issues to be dealt with and 
I note that at one stage  Mr R withdrew his consent  for the police to provide the fire 
investigation details  to UKI. I dont think it would be reasonable in the circumstances to ask 
UKI to repair  the property  as Mr R had requested.
I note from UKIs records that despite  declining the claim and cancelling the policy  it doesnt  
appear to be asking Mr R to pay back any of the costs it has paid out for the hotel 
accommodation. So, I dont think Mr R was disadvantaged or has lost out. If anything, UKI 
continuing to investigate and extending the time in the hotel meant it paid out more.  I think  
thats fair.
If Mr R wants to raise  concerns about the professionalism of the loss adjusters then hes 
referred to their professional guidelines and hed need to take the point up with the 
professional body. But in terms of UKI and the handling of the claim I think  it was dealt with 
fairly and reasonably.
Mr R asked for more time to present more evidence. Ive carefully been through  this. But 
most of this refers to earlier  in the day and doesnt change any of the facts. Mr R suggests 
another possibility  as to what caused the fire. But theres no evidence to back  this up and 
Mr R has referred  to this other  possibility  throughout without producing anything to outweigh  
the police  details and evidence reviewed  by UKI. So, although I understand the point Mr R is 
making I can only base my decision on whether UKI acted reasonably in the handling of the 
claim and I think  it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4278808