K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mr and Mrs W held with Together 
Personal Finance  Limited. They repaid it in 2018,  and then complained about two issues:  
these are that Together:
collected a monthly  direct debit payment after sending  out the redemption statement   
which meant the account was overpaid on redemption  and left Mr and Mrs W to 
recover the money via their bank; and
charged a full months interest  for October 2018  when the mortgage was repaid on 
11 October 2018.
Mr and Mrs W have  largely conceded the first point, but still believe theyre entitled to a 
rebate of interest  charged  after 11 October 2018,  with further  interest on the refund. They 
also want compensation for their time, at £70 an hour.
background
Mr and Mrs W took the mortgage out in December 2015, on the advice of a third party 
intermediary Ill refer to as SW. Together provided the mortgage under a trading name;  
Cheshire Mortgage  Corporation. In October  2018, Mr and Mrs W repaid the mortgage  when 
they secured a new mortgage on better terms with a new lender.  In preparation for this, 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor requested a redemption statement. Together issued the statement 
on 2 October 2018.
The redemption statement quoted a figure of £77,053.19 (plus a fee of £150,  so £77,203.19  
in all) and said this was valid for any date up to 1 November 2018, as interest wasnt 
charged on a daily basis. The statement  also said that the last receipt  that had been factored 
into the quotation was the monthly payment received on 2 September 2018.  It recommended 
a check be made for any payments received after that before sending  the quoted amount to 
repay the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor paid the quoted  amount of £77,203.19  on 11 October 2018. 
However, by then, a further monthly payment, £1,017.11, had been paid from 
Mr and Mrs Ws bank.  They  recovered  the money through  their bank through  the direct debit 
guarantee, but complained about  what had happened. They also thought  theyd been 
overcharged on the redemption balance itself,  because  a full months worth of interest.had  
been added  for October.
Unhappy with Togethers response  to the complaint, Mr and Mrs W contacted us and one of 
our adjudicators looked into things. She wasnt persuaded Together had done anything  
wrong; the case has come to me after Mr and Mrs W asked for a review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Ive done that, and Ive reached the same 
broad conclusion as the adjudicator.
Ref: DRN42664992As I said in the introduction, Mr and Mrs W appear  to have conceded  the point on the first 
part of the complaint; the extra payment that was made and then refunded.  Ill deal with it 
nonetheless, if only for completeness.  
Theres always a possibility of further  money coming into a mortgage account in the interval 
between a redemption  statement being  produced and the money  to repay it actually  being  
remitted to the lender.  To cover off that eventuality, Togethers redemption  statement 
included a narrative  alerting the reader (in this case,  Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor)  to check with 
it before  sending the quoted amount. It seems  that didnt happen, so the mortgage ended up 
being overpaid. I cant fairly attribute  that to any error or omission on Togethers  part. Im 
satisfied it provided all of the information  necessary to avoid the mortgage being overpaid on 
redemption.
The direct debit guarantee  is a form of protection that allows  people  to recover, relatively 
easily, money thats been taken that wasnt due. Thats how Mr and Mrs W got their money 
back on this occasion,  but I really  wouldnt  characterise it as them being left to get the 
money back themselves.  Ive no reason  to believe Together wouldnt have returned the 
overpayment to them using its refund  mechanism,  if theyd preferred to let the business to do 
the work.  The direct debit  guarantee  was the quicker  solution;  thats  all.
Regarding the amount of interest its charged. I dont think Togethers  explanations have 
been particularly  clear, but having  considered all of the relevant evidence,  I also dont find 
that Together has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
It appears to be common ground that interest was charged in arrears  for the preceding 
month. That means that the interest debit of £448.06 applied  on 2 October 2018 was for 
September 2018. That took the outstanding  balance to £76,605.13.  However, the 
redemption statement generated the same day quoted £77,053.19 (before the addition of 
the £150 fee). The difference between the two figures is £448.13, so its reasonable to infer 
from this that Together applied  a further months  interest; that is, for the whole of 
October 2018. 
Mr and Mrs Ws argument is that they should then have  had a rebate of part of that interest, 
because the mortgage was repaid on 11 October  2018. I understand Mr and Mrs Ws 
argument, and many mortgage  contracts  do allow that. But Im afraid  theirs  didnt.  The 
redemption statement confirmed that by saying Together doesnt charge daily interest and 
that the balance quoted in the redemption statement was valid for any time up to and 
including 1 November  2018.
I asked Together  to show how the provision  for interest to be charged in monthly rather than 
daily blocks  would  have been  made  known to borrowers when the mortgage was starting.  It 
pointed me to the Customer Information  Booklet that formed  part of the point-of  sale 
documentation for Cheshire Mortgage  Corporation-branded  mortgages.  The relevant section 
is 7.4, which says:
7.4 How do we Calculate Interest?
Interest is charged  on a monthly  basis and will be calculated on the balance  
outstanding at the previous due date. The interest  charged is added to the balance 
and your monthly repayments will reduce the balance. Any fees or charges added to 
the loan will increase the balance, incur interest  and increase the overall cost of your 
borrowing. Payments in excess of the normal monthly repayment can be made at 
Ref: DRN42664993any time and will reduce the balance outstanding  and have the effect of reducing  the 
amount of interest  charged in the month following repayment. If you wish to make  
payments in excess of the normal monthly  repayment, please contact us prior to 
doing so as an administration charge may be incurred.
I cant know if Mr and Mrs W saw and assimilated this particular clause at the time of the 
sale. However, it was their broker SWs role to ensure they knew,  understood, and were 
satisfied with, the mortgage  terms and conditions. My role is limited to deciding  if Together 
charged too much interest in the month  Mr and Mrs W redeemed their mortgage.  For the 
reasons Ive set out, I dont find that it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4266499