K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2003. The PPI was added to the account  sometime after Mrs F took out the store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs F says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs F 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs F says she was led to believe the PPI was compulsory. Ive considered what shes 
said but Ive also looked at the other evidence available to come  to a decision  on what I 
think is more likely  to have happened. The PPI was taken out over the phone some  
months after the store card account had been  set up. Unfortunately  due to the length of 
time thats passed there is no call recording for me to listen to  so I cant say what  
exactly was discussed at the time. But as Mrs F already had the credit  in place I think 
she wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra  and not a condition  of having the 
store card. 
FICL have  also provided call scripts which it says wouldve been used for these types of 
sales around that time  and Ive seen  no reason  to doubt this. These  show  that the 
sales person was instructed to present the PPI as optional to Mrs F. And without any 
evidence to persuade me otherwise, I think its unlikely FICL wouldve added  the PPI to 
her account  without her permission. So based  on the evidence Ive seen  and without any 
stronger evidence to the contrary, I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if the policy  was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs F says the policy was unnecessary and unsuitable for her as she was entitled  to six 
months of sick pay from her employer. Upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 
Ref: DRN4267479215% of Mrs Fs outstanding monthly  balance for up to twelve  months and in addition  to 
her sick pay. So these funds couldve been  used for other  expenses. And the PPI 
wouldve paid out for longer than her sick pay wouldve lasted, so I think it wouldve  been 
especially useful if she was out of work for more  than six months.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267479