K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Barclays Bank  UK PLC (when it was trading  as Woolwich) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  which Mr and Mrs P took out to protect their mortgage  in 
2008. The policy covered both of them and paid a monthly benefit in the event of accident or 
sickness or unexpected  unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Barclays disagreed  with our adjudicators view. It mainly says that it relied on information  
provided to it by Mr and Mrs P when  it sold them PPI. And based  on what  theyd  said at the 
time, in particular about their lack of alternative means to rely on if they werent working, the 
policy was suitable  for them when Barclays advised  them to take it out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain  why.
Barclays recommended  Mr and Mrs P to take out a PPI policy which  would cover them if 
they were unable to work because they were sick or had an accident, or if they lost their 
jobs. Mr and Mrs P accepted Barclays recommendation. Because Barclays made this 
recommendation, it needed to make sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P. This means 
that Id expect Barclays to have asked appropriate  questions to check if Mr and Mrs P were 
likely to be able to benefit sufficiently overall from paying to have the PPI. 
Ive seen a copy  of the Statement of Demands and Needs that Barclays  completed with 
Mr and Mrs P when  they arranged their PPI. 
Barclays asked Mr and Mrs P a number of questions about their financial situation,  including: 
Would your current  employer provide sufficient income to maintain your lifestyle and repay 
your borrowing if you were  unable to work due to accident or illness ?
It appears that Mr and Mrs P both said No in answer to this question.  Their  other  responses  
also indicated that they didnt have  sufficient accident, sickness  or unemployment cover 
already set up  or any other financial  arrangements that would provide income.
But I cant see that Barclays specifically  asked Mr and Mrs P about their sick pay 
arrangements through work  or what other work benefits they had. 
Ref: DRN42901602I dont know what was actually said about the PPI or exactly how the questions were  put to 
Mr and Mrs P. But the wording of the questions on the Statement of Demands and Needs 
form that Barclays asked  Mr and Mrs P about  didnt actually mention  sick pay or pension.  
So Im not sure if Mr and Mrs P were sufficiently prompted to provide the information  that 
Barclays shouldve checked, or told why it was important.  From  the paperwork Ive seen it 
looks as if Barclays relied on Mr and Mrs Ps answers without taking  all the steps it 
reasonably shouldve done  to find out the underlying  details about Mr and Mrs Ps employee 
benefits and overall  financial circumstances. Indeed, Ive seen nothing to show  me they even 
found out what Mr and Mrs Ps benefits from their jobs were, to be able to advise them on 
the suitability of the PPI.   
In addition, Barclays already knew what Mr and Mrs Ps jobs were  as this information  was 
provided in their mortgage application. And I think it ought reasonably to have been  aware  
that Mr and Mrs Ps employment  offered each of them very good  job security and employee  
benefits. So I think its fair and reasonable to expect that Barclays  shouldve enquired more 
carefully into their likely work benefits before personally recommending the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs P. Ive seen nothing to suggest  this happened.   
Ive taken into account everything Barclays  has said, including that the policy  wouldve paid 
out a benefit for up to 24 months  for any one claim.  But Mr and Mrs P couldve both relied on 
continuing to get their full pay for as long as they were off work  sick. And if they had 
eventually been  unable to continue working  for medical  reasons  then its likely  they wouldve 
had enhanced pension arrangements.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr and Mrs P had a need for the policy  and it wasnt  suitable for 
them. If Mr P and/or  Mrs P became  unexpectedly  unemployed  or was off work  for a long 
time sick, I think  they already had enough cover in place to meet their mortgage repayments  
for quite  a long time without the PPI policy. And I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs P 
wouldve taken out the policy if Barclays hadnt  recommended it, or if Barclays  had advised 
them that it might not be suitable for them and helped them to understand the limited benefit 
that the policy offered them. And if it had given them good enough information about its cost 
and benefits, in their particular  circumstances I dont think they wouldve wanted it. 
And so, I think it was mis-sold - which means I dont need to deal with the other  issues  
Mr and Mrs P have  raised about the sale.
 
putting things right 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out the policy. So it should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Barclays can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this interest.
Ref: DRN42901603Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4290160