K820x#14complaint
Mr O is complaining about the number of years No Claims Discount (NCD) CIS General 
Insurance Limited (CIS) has given him for his car insurance policy.
background
Mr O took out a car insurance policy through CIS in May 2015. The policy renewed the 
following year. The renewed policy lapsed in May 2017. Mr O then took out a new policy  with 
CIS in June  2017 and this policy ended in April 2018.
CISs representative sent out a proof of NCD which said that he had 9 years  NCD. For the 
ease of reference, Ive referred to any further actions carried  out by CISs representative as 
being done by CIS. 
Mr O called to complain  as he thought he should have had 13 years  NCD. The call handler  
explained that the maximum NCD  CIS gives is 9 years, but it agreed to send out proof of 
11 years  which included  the two full years  he accrued while insured with CIS. Mr O then 
referred his complaint to this service.  He maintains that he was entitled  to 13 years  and also 
said that he didnt  receive the updated proof of NCD. He said this has caused increased 
premiums and was putting him into financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that it wasnt  unreasonable  for CIS to 
say the maximum NCD it would allow is 9 years. She said Mr O started with 9 years NCD. 
And she said Mr O can only earn a years NCD for a policy that runs for a full year.  She said 
that Mr O was insured  for two full years between May 2015 and May 2017. But she said the 
policy he took out after that didnt  run for a full year. So she didnt  think  he wasnt  entitled to 
a further years NCD from that. So she said CIS was correct to say he was now entitled to 
11 years  NCD.  
She also said that it sent the updated  proof  to the address it had for Mr O. Mr O had told us 
that hed moved  and the updated  address  was on the complaint  letter.  But she said shed 
listened to the telephone calls Mr O had when querying the NCD. And she said that Mr O 
had given his old address.  So she didnt  think it was unreasonable that it sent the proof to 
the old address.
Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicator  and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  for the same reasons as the adjudicator. While 
Mr O said he didnt agree with the adjudicator,  he didnt say why he didnt. And he hasnt 
provided anything  further for me to think about. Ive reviewed the file and the comments  the 
adjudicator made, as I set out above, and I confirm theyre correct. Ultimately,  the following 
points are relevant  in this matter:
CIS has shown that Mr O provided proof  of 9 years NCD when the policy  started.
Mr O only had two full years of insurance  as the third insurance policy he took out didnt 
run for the full year,  so he was only entitled to an additional two years.
Ref: DRN42776612Its not unusual  for insurers to have a maximum number of years NCD. And from my 
experience insurers  often dont provide further  discounts on premium  beyond the 
maximum number  of years they allow  which varies between five and nine years.  So I 
dont think Mr O would have lost out by only having 9 years, rather than 11 years NCD.
CIS sent proof of 11 years to the address Mr O gave it. Mr O confirmed his old address 
on the telephone, so I dont think it was unreasonable that CIS sent the proof to this 
address.
Ultimately, I dont think CIS acted unfairly  in this matter,  so I dont think  it needs  to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4277661