K821x#15Complaint
Mr K has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply  Company Limited acted irresponsibly 
when it provided  him with unaffordable loans. 
Background
This complaint is about 13 home  credit loans Mutual  Clothing provided to Mr K between  
December 2012  and March 2018.  The table below includes some of the information provided 
to us by Mutual  Clothing about Mr Ks loans.
LoanDate Taken Date  RepaidInstalments 
(weekly)Amount*Highest 
Repayment
1 08/12/2012 11/12/2013 51 £1,400.00 £27.45
2 22/06/2013 28/05/2014 51 £300.00 £35.68
3 07/12/2013 13/01/2016 102 £1,000.00 £50.87
4 07/06/2014 10/08/2016 102 £1,000.00 £30.38
5 24/12/2014 23/12/2015 51 £500.00 £44.10
6 05/09/2015 27/09/2017 102 £1,000.00 £59.29
7 16/01/2016 13/12/2017 102 £1,000.00 £45.57
8 04/06/2016 05/03/2017 51 £500.00 £59.29
9 03/12/2016 07/03/2018 102 £1,000.00 £59.29
10 11/03/2017 outstanding 102 £1,000.00 £60.76
11 23/09/2017 outstanding 102 £1,000.00 £75.95
12 09/12/2017 outstanding 102 £1,000.00 £75.95
13 10/03/2018 outstanding 102 £2,081.95 £77.20
*The highest repayment is sometimes made  up of multiple repayments where loans 
overlapped
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint about  loans  4-13. She considered  that by loan 4 the 
pattern of borrowing suggested  Mr K had become reliant on this form of loan.
Mr K didnt provide  any further comments to our adjudicators view. Mutual Clothing didnt 
agree with the conclusion and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
As there have been no further  arguments  about loans 1 to 3, my decision will focus on loans 
4 to 13; the ones in dispute  by Mutual Clothing.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account all the key 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice. 
Ref: DRN46454742The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Mutual Clothing lent loans 
4 to 13 to Mr K. The FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  is the specialist 
sourcebook for credit-related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  
to consumer credit providers, such as Mutual Clothing. 
Mutual Clothing needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mutual Clothing should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period); and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
In response to the adjudicators view,  Mutual  Clothing provided  full details about the checks  
it did and says its checks were proportionate at the time it provided these loans to Mr K. But I 
think Mutual Clothing should have been  doing more by the time Mr K took out loan 4. 
Mutual Clothing already  had an established lending history with Mr K by the time it provided 
loan 4. In these circumstances I think Mutual  Clothings checks  for loan 4 (as well as the 
subsequent ones) ought to have built upon what it clearly knew about Mr K from his earlier  
borrowing. That is to say, to remain proportionate,  Mutual Clothings affordability checks 
needed to evolve and take into account  what it was learning as a result  of earlier 
applications. 
I also think that Mr Ks borrowing history itself suggested there was a reasonable prospect 
the information he provided was inaccurate. I think that Mutual Clothing ought to have 
questioned just why it was Mr K wanted  or needed  a fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,  eighth, 
ninth, tenth loan and beyond  if he genuinely  had the levels of disposable income declared. 
Ref: DRN46454743Given Mutual Clothings  obligations, I consider it fair, reasonable and proportionate for it to 
have taken further steps to ascertain that this genuinely was the case,  certainly by the time 
of loan 4 and for the subsequent ones. Mutual Clothing could have done this by asking for 
evidence such as bank  statements, utility statements or copies of other bills. I dont think  
Mutual Clothings  checks achieved this.
I say this while also mindful of the fact that the various rules and regulations in place at the 
time Mutual  Clothing was lending to Mr K also make it clear that where income  and 
expenditure is used  in an affordability assessment, it may not be proportionate  to rely solely 
on a statement of these  matters made by the borrower.       
As Mutual  Clothing chose  to continue proceeding with an over-optimistic declaration of 
Mr Ks disposable income,  I dont  think that Mutual Clothings checks  before providing Mr K 
with loans 4 to 13 were  fair, reasonable or proportionate.
To help us understand for ourselves what Mutual Clothing would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  before providing these 
loans, we would normally ask Mr K for his bank statements. But Mr K does not have any 
bank statements. So, I can't safely say what proportionate checks  would have shown Mutual 
Clothing.
However, I dont think I need  to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks  for 
loans 4 to 13 in this case.  Ill explain why.
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mr K by 
Mutual Clothing, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern  of lending 
and what unfolded  during  the course  of Mr Ks lending history  with Mutual Clothing. This is 
because, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mutual Clothing was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer  could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. And 
although Mr K had a good payment history, it doesnt automatically follow that he managed 
to repay  his loans  in a sustainable way.
This is because (CONC) defines sustainable as being without  undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive looked at, not just the number of loans Mr K borrowed, but the overall  pattern of Mutual  
Clothings lending history  with Mr K, to see if there was a point at which  Mutual Clothing 
should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. 
Ref: DRN46454744And so Mutual  Clothing should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  
loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Mutual Clothing ought  to have  realised  Mr K was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably.  Mr K had taken out 4 loans within 18 months and Mr K had 
been continuously indebted to Mutual Clothing for the entire time. Bearing in mind  Mr 
Ks initial loan should  have been repaid over 51 weeks (just under a year)  and his 
indebtedness to Mutual Clothing  should,  to all intent and purpose, have been  
discharged at this point, Mutual Clothing ought to have  realised that Mr Ks 
indebtedness may have been  increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ks first loan was for £1,400 and loan 4 was for £1,000 and was taken out whilst 
loan 3 (for £1,000) was still outstanding. Mr Ks total weekly  repayments  across both 
loans was more  than it was for loan 1 and his repayments were now spread over a 
much longer term. At this point Mutual  Clothing ought to have known that Mr K was 
borrowing to meet an ongoing  need.
From  loan 4 onwards  Mr K was provided  with a new loan whilst still having previous 
loans outstanding  there was no break or gaps in lending.  
Mr K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mutual  Clothing.  Loan 
13 was taken over five years after Mr Ks first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr K 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt (which had increased) 
to Mutual Clothing over an extended  period.
In its response to the view, Mutual Clothing has referred to two FCA publications regarding 
its High-cost Credit Review CP 18/43 (December  2018) and CP 18/12 (May 2018). 
Whilst the review highlighted that those  who use home credit  over a longer period  do not 
appear to suffer significant harm in the same  way as other parts  of the high cost credit 
markets, it does not follow that users of home credit never suffer  any financial distress. 
Ref: DRN46454745Indeed, the review also highlights that:
there are existing controls  that reduce the risk of unaffordable debt and financial  distress.  
These include that: 
Firms must  assess  creditworthiness  (including affordability) before agreeing any new 
loan, or any significant increase in credit.
Firms also have  to monitor  consumers repayment patterns to identify signs  of 
financial distress. They must  take appropriate action where  there are signs  of actual 
or possible repayment difficulties.
Firms must  also not encourage a customer to refinance where the commitments are 
not sustainable or are not in the customers best interests or do so without the 
customers consent/request.
Ive already explained, in some detail, in this decision  why I think  that Mutual Clothings 
creditworthiness assessments werent fair, reasonable  and proportionate and therefore  
werent effective.
I also dont agree that the FCA have found home  credit is not harmful to consumer. The 
consultation paper CP 18/12  section  3.14 states that
 we are concerned that there is a small core of customers who are using home-
collected credit over an extended period  and that some customers  are being unduly  
influenced by firms  representatives to keep borrowing.
So, while I acknowledge that the FCA has said that repeat lending  wont  always lead to an 
unfair outcome for consumers, I also dont  think  that the FCAs publications state that repeat  
lending (where home-collected credit  is concerned) will always be fair reasonable and 
proportionate in all circumstances.
In any event these  publications were intended  to gather more information  from relevant 
stakeholders to help the FCA decide whether changes needed to be made to the rules at 
that time.  They are not the regulators final thoughts on the matter.
In fact, since these papers were published  the FCA has updated  its website about home 
collected credit in October 2019. In addition,  in March 2019,  the FCA wrote  a Dear CEO  
letter to the Chief  Executive  Officer  of all firms included in the High Cost Lenders portfolio, 
which includes home-collected  credit  businesses  in other words, the FCA considered  the 
content of this letter relevant to this type of lending. 
Ref: DRN46454746The FCA set out its view on the key causes of harm on page 2 of this letter:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
A high volume  of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending  
patterns
Firms affordability checks may be insufficient, lending  to loans that customers may 
not be able to afford.
It is also worth adding  that while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent with the 
content of the FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required to decide  what I think  is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ks case.  
In this particular  case, Mr K was in debt to Mutual Clothing for an unbroken  period over five 
years. This lack of any breaks  in Mr Ks indebtedness leads me to think  that it ought to have 
been apparent  to Mutual Clothing that Mr K was unlikely to have been using these loans as 
a useful means of managing cyclical income shortfalls  especially as the loan amounts and 
total repayments across  overlapping  loans  increased substantially.  
I think that Mr K suffered adverse consequences  as a result  of Mutual Clothing unfairly  
giving him loans 4 to 13. I say this because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness to Mutual 
Clothing by allowing him to take credit  over an unbroken and extended period of time 
and the financial  loss arising (by way of interest  and charges on loans he shouldnt  
have been given) has unfairly exacerbated what was already an adverse and 
precarious financial position  for Mr K.
The sheer number  of loans is likely to have had implications  for Mr Ks ability  to 
access mainstream credit. The greater  the presence of these  loans on Mr Ks credit 
file the less likely Mr K was able to rehabilitate his finances and regain access to 
mainstream credit.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4-13 and Mutual Clothing should put things right 
as set out below.
Ref: DRN46454747Putting things  right
Mutual Clothing shouldnt  have given Mr K loans  4-13. I understand there is still an 
outstanding balance on loans 10-13, so Mutual Clothing should;
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest,  fees and 
charges on any upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of A, calculated form the date Mr K originally made  the payments 
to the date of settlement.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  loans with an 
outstanding balance, and treat any repayments made  by Mr K as though they had 
been repayments of the principle on all outstanding loans.  if this results in Mr K 
having made overpayments then Mutual Clothing should refund these overpayments  
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen to the date of settlement. Mutual clothing should  
then refund the amounts calculated  in A and B and move to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should  
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a 
surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Mr K. However, if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Mutual Clothing should  try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr K.
E.The overall pattern  of Mr Ks borrowing for Loans 4-13 means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual Clothing  should  remove  these loans 
entirely from Mr Ks credit file. It does not have  to remove these  loans from Mr Ks 
credit file until these have been  repaid, but it should  still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these  loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax youve  deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct  
Mutual Clothing and Supply  Company  Limited  to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4645474