K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  will only pay three months loss of rent in 
respect of a claim under his residential property insurance for theft and malicious damage in 
respect of his let property.
background
In October  2017 Mr B was notified by his managing agent of a break in at his property. 
Damage had been caused to the property and the boiler and copper piping had been stolen. 
Mr B notified  Ageas  of his claim. He sent, at Ageas request, pictures  of the damage.  It 
asked him to obtain a quote  for the boiler and the repairs. Mr B had problems getting the 
necessary quotes,  and over the following months Ageas chased him up several times. It 
wasnt until June 2018 that he was finally able to send the quotes to Ageas. However it didnt 
receive them and as theyd been  sent by ordinary  post, couldnt  trace  their receipt.  Mr B 
obtained further copies but these werent received  by Ageas until October  2018.  
In view of the amount  of the quotes Ageas decided to instruct  a loss adjuster, It accepted the 
claim and proposed to pay Mr B three  months  loss of rent. It estimated that the repairs  would 
take two months  and allowed an extra month in respect of obtaining quotes. The loss 
adjuster sent its final report to Ageas  in February  2019.
Mr B was unhappy with the loss of rent payment. He felt he should receive 12 months loss of 
rent.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Ageas should pay Mr B six months 
loss of rent. She noted the delays by Mr B in obtaining quotes for the work  and said Ageas 
could have appointed a loss adjuster  sooner when it realised that he was struggling to obtain 
the necessary   quotes. She thought it would be reasonable for Ageas to pay six months loss 
of rent.
Ageas pointed out that it didnt appoint  loss adjusters in every case and might not have had 
to if Mr B had provided the quotes  sooner. It also said that as Mr B had a portfolio of 
properties it was hard to understand  why he had been unable to get the quotes sooner.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that there was a long delay in this case while Mr B obtained quotes. It actually took 
a year before Ageas had the quotes  in its hands.  And, looking at the timeline it does appear 
that Ageas chased Mr B up for the quotes  at appropriate times.
I take note of the fact that Mr B is a commercial customer and that he did delay significantly 
in obtaining the necessary quotes, partly because I believe he was very busy  with his work.  
He was also involved in the police investigation and court proceedings. Nevertheless I do 
think he was responsible for a lot of the delay in this case.
Ref: DRN45412292Where I take issue with Ageas is its late appointment of a loss adjuster. I think  it will have 
been clear from the description of the damage that the cost of it was likely  to be high. It didnt 
carry out a site inspection at the time. Nor did it consider appointing one when it became 
clear that Mr B was struggling to get the appropriate quotes. And when the quotes finally  
came through it took a further three  months before the settlement could be agreed.  I cant  
see myself that, as it has argued,  Ageas  might  not have thought  it necessary to appoint a 
loss adjuster had the quotes  come  through earlier.
I think if a loss adjuster  had been  appointed earlier when Mr B was struggling to get the 
quotes, Ageas could  have provided  him with assistance in estimating the cost of the work. 
This could  have cut the time down by a few months. I think  Mr B had shown that he had a 
valid claim by providing the photos. So I do think it fair and reasonable that Ageas  should  
pay six, rather than three  months  loss of rent.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay to Mr B a total of six 
months loss of rent, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541229