K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Instant Cash Loans  Limited  (trading as Payday Express) didnt carry 
out proper affordability  checks  and shouldnt  have agreed to lend him four loans as he 
couldnt pay them back.
background
Mr M took out 4 instalment loans between September 2015 and November 2015. A 
summary of his borrowing is as follows: 
Loan NumberBorrowing 
DateInstalments Loan Amount Highest  
monthly  
repayment
1 12/09/2015 2 150.00 93.66
2 10/10/2015 3 400.00 253.31
3 29/10/2015 3 600.00 299.89
4 27/11/2015 5 790.00 274.89
Payday Express says it took into consideration Mr Ms monthly  income and his expenditure 
when it assessed  his loan applications. It says Mr M had enough disposable  income and 
could afford  the loans.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be partly  upheld. She said the checks  Payday 
Express carried out for loans 1-3 were proportionate  and affordable  for Mr M. She said for 
loan 4 that Payday Express hadnt carried out sufficient checks. After looking at bank 
statements provided by Mr M from the time he applied for the loan 4, she thought  it wasnt 
affordable or sustainable and that Mr M shouldnt have been granted  it. Our adjudicator  also 
made suggestions for Payday  Express  to put things  right for loan 4.
Payday Express has offered to pay compensation for loan 4 but Mr M has said he thinks the 
other loans  were also not affordable so he hasnt as yet accepted this offer. As both parties 
still cant agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Payday Express, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr M would  be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr M would have been 
able to do so.
Ref: DRN43842112Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ms indebtedness  in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Payday Express act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
If I determine that Payday Express did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr M 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Payday Express was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make checks to see whether      
Mr M could  afford to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Payday Express had to do.
Payday Express says it asked about Mr Ms income and expenditure. It says it relied on the 
information he gave.
I think the checks Payday  Express  carried out on loans 1, 2 and 3 went far enough.  He was 
a new customer and the monthly  repayments for these loans were relatively small compared 
to his declared disposable income.  The loan repayments appeared affordable on the 
information Payday  Express were  given by Mr M. I dont think it would have seen anything 
that would  have alerted it to carry out any further checks  at this stage and from the 
information it had I think it would have seen that these 3 loans were  affordable  for Mr M.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the checks  Payday Express carried  out on loan 4 were  not 
sufficient as it should have been  carrying out a more  thorough  financial review  of Mr Ms 
finances. This is because  the amount he had asked to borrow increased and this was his 4th 
loan in quick succession. The loan was also being  arranged over a longer term of 5 months.  
If Payday  Express had carried out further  checks, it would have seen that he had less 
income and more expenditure than he had declared  in previous loan applications. And when 
these amounts are considered, it shows he had very little disposable income for the loan 
repayments proposed  for loan 4 and not enough  to cover them. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Payday Express  has shown its checks for loan 4 
was sufficient or proportionate  given the amounts  borrowed. I consider proportionate checks  
would have shown  Payday Express that Mr M couldnt afford  to repay  the loan. On balance  I 
dont think loan 4 shouldve been  granted. So Payday  Express should put right what  it did 
wrong.
putting things right
I dont think Payday Express should have agreed  to give Mr M loan 4. So Payday  Express 
should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to loan 4. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to these amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest.  Payday 
Express must give Mr M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN43842113Mr M didnt  repay any of his final loan to Payday Express. That debt has now been  sold to a 
third party debt collection company. I dont know whether  Mr M has repaid any of this debt to 
the debt collection  company.  
It seems  reasonable that if Mr M still owes the capital  he borrowed that the refund due to him 
should be used  to reduce that debt.  But to do so Payday Express  must first take the debt 
back into its own books and reduce it to reflect  just the capital that Mr M borrowed.  If Payday 
Express is unable, or unwilling, to do this it must ensure that its interest and charges, and 
any other interest and charges added by the debt collection company, are refunded  to Mr M 
so he can choose  whether  to use the compensation to settle  his debt directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint  and direct  Instant  Cash Loans Ltd 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384211