K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Close Brothers  Limited  (Close Brothers) have not upheld  a claim he 
made to them  about  the management  of his fixed sum loans. He says hes been 
overcharged and this has affected his credit rating.
background
Mr V bought electronic equipment from a merchant Ill call J in December  2018.  Two fixed  
sum loans  were arranged  with Close Brothers  to finance the purchases.  Neither attracted 
any interest. Mr V says that one of them financed a duplicate product which he subsequently 
returned and the agreement should  therefore have  been cancelled. 
Close Brothers didnt  reply to Mr Vs complaint in the requisite time frame. So he referred  it 
to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence provided  by Mr V. He noted that in June  2019  Mr V 
was emailed a spreadsheet by Close Brothers in an attempt to clarify  what,  if any, error they 
had made.  He noted that the balance on one account had been reduced and he understood 
that would  have been because Mr V had returned some items.  He understood that Mr V had 
replied to Close Brothers to say the spreadsheet made sense  to him and that he hadnt 
responded to their requests  to detail the errors  he thought had been made and for which 
payments may not be due. So he didnt think Mr V had provided sufficient evidence that 
Close Brothers had done  anything wrong.
He explained  that Close Brothers were required to report  account  performance accurately to 
the credit  reference  agencies  and, as he hadnt found any evidence that there  were  any 
errors, he didnt think theyd made any mistakes in their reporting.
He understood  that Mr V was also concerned that the first agreement should not have been 
processed because  of identity checks.  He could not see that this complaint had been made 
to Close  Brothers and he explained it would  need to be considered  by them  before this 
service could look into it.
Overall, he didnt think Close Brothers  needed  to take any further action.  But Mr V disagreed  
with him and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr V but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN40618052When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr V made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Here Mr V claims that J have breached  the contract  they have with him as hes being charged 
for something he hasnt  had. But Ive not seen  sufficient evidence  to suggest thats the case.
I understand that Mr V was supplied with duplicate products and I can see he returned part 
of one order to J. The credit was paid to his account  XXXX3619 and I can see that on the 
spreadsheet Close Brothers supplied to Mr V in June 2019. Its listed as a correction. 
Mr V didnt dispute any of the items  shown  on the spreadsheet. He said it made  sense to 
him and he didnt respond to Close Brothers  request to explain what  the error was that 
theyd made.  In those  circumstances  I dont think Mr V has provided  information to show 
there has been an error here. It appears that hes being charged for the goods he received 
and the duplicate goods that were returned  have been debited from the balance. 
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to suggest  Close  Brothers have made a 
mistake. They have a responsibility to report performance on an account accurately and Ive 
not seen evidence to show they reported anything incorrectly. 
Mr V has suggested that one of his finance  agreements should not have been processed  
because identity checks failed but I dont think Ive seen sufficient evidence to suggest Close 
Brothers have considered  that aspect of his complaint. So if Mr V wishes to progress that 
aspect of his complaint  hell need  to report it to Close Brothers in the first instance.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Close Brothers need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4061805