K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). He says 
one of his annuities hasnt been set up correctly. He considers Prudential to be at fault for 
this.
background
Following receipt of a completed Notification of Intention to Take Benefits form, Prudential 
wrote to Mr D on 25 February 2010.  Prudentials  letter included  Quotations,  Key Features 
Documents, a Benefit Instruction Form and a Cancellation Substitute.  Copies of these 
documents were  also forwarded to Mr Ds financial adviser.
Mr D later chose  to take out two annuities with Prudential. Annuity ending  690 was a joint life 
annuity. And as it originated from the Protected Rights  element  of Mr Ds pension  fund it 
provides a 50% spouse benefit.  Annuity  ending 680 was a single life annuity. 
Further to enquiries  made  by Mr D in August  2018  Prudential wrote to him and confirmed the 
basis of annuities hed selected in 2010 and benefits he was entitled to under them.
Mr D later complained to Prudential saying  both of his annuities shouldve  been set up on a 
joint life basis, not just one.
Prudential considered the complaint and sent its final response to Mr D on 13 September  
2018. It said Mr Ds annuities had been set up in line with his instructions  so it wasnt able to 
support his complaint.
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Mr D referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the matter and said she didnt think  Prudential  had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator and in summary said:
hed intended  to buy a joint life annuity all along
if thered been  any confusion  about  Mr Ds choices from the paperwork hed 
completed Prudential  had a responsibility to query this with him
Prudential had taken  financial advantage  of him when he was vulnerable
Prudential was denying him the opportunity to provide for his younger wife when he 
passed away
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issue  central to this complaint. That is to 
say, whether Prudential  failed  to set up one of Mr Ds annuities (annuity ending  680) 
correctly.
Ref: DRN45252132Having carefully considered the matter I havent  seen anything  to suggest Prudential  has 
done anything  wrong in the way Mr D says it has. 
Prudential didnt provide Mr D with any financial advice in 2010  when he made his annuity 
selections. Indeed Prudentials correspondence  to Mr D at the time encouraged him to speak  
with his financial adviser:
We recommend that you get in touch with your financial adviser to help you decide  on the 
most appropriate choices  for you.
The Key Features document Prudential provided to Mr D also said:
Talk to an adviser
Its important you understand what options are open  to you so you can be sure you have 
made the right choice.  A Financial Adviser can help you decide what  to do.
 
Prudential had the details of Mr Ds financial adviser  at the time on its records.  So copies  of 
the correspondence it sent to Mr D about his annuity  options were also sent to Mr Ds 
financial adviser.
Its not clear whether  Mr D discussed his annuity  options or the choices he intended to make  
with his financial adviser in 2010. But as Prudential didnt provide Mr D with any financial 
advice, its only obligations were to provide Mr D with enough information to make  an 
informed decision about how he took his retirement benefits. And to ensure his annuities 
were set up his annuities in accordance with his wishes. Im satisfied Prudential fulfilled its 
responsibilities in this respect.
Ive considered the literature and forms Prudential provided to Mr D and I think  it was made 
clear what  option Mr D needed to select and the action he needed to take if he wanted his 
annuity ending  680 to be set up on a joint life basis. But I cant see that Mr D ever requested  
that his annuity ending  680 be set up on a joint life basis. Indeed the paperwork he 
completed in 2010 shows  otherwise.
On Prudentials Benefit  Instruction Form  I can see that Mr D was presented with a number of 
options. Of the seven  options available, one of which  was taking Tax Free Cash  and 
purchasing a joint life annuity with Prudential, Mr D clearly selected the following option:
Tax free cash taken and pension bought  with Prudential,  own life pension.
The Personal Pension Quotation Prudential provided to Mr D also confirmed this selection 
and said:
() a reduced single life annual pension of £3257.16 along with a maximum tax free cash  
sum of £16894.00
Prudential had a duty to ensure that Mr Ds annuity  ending 680 was set up in accordance 
with the wishes  hed outlined in the Benefit Instruction Form he completed and signed on 28 
February 2010. I havent seen anything which persuades me that Prudential didnt do this.
Im also mindful that Mr D was provided with a Cancellation  Substitute  in 2010.  This gave Mr 
D the option to change  his mind (within a specific period)  about taking benefits after hed 
Ref: DRN45252133returned his Benefit Instruction Form  to Prudential. Mr D didnt contact Prudential following 
the submission of Benefit Instruction Form so I cant  say that it did anything  wrong  in setting 
up Mr Ds annuity ending  680 on the single life basis  Mr D had selected  on the form he 
completed. 
The Cancellation  Substitute also warned:
After you have used your pension  plan to buy a pension, you cannot  cancel  it.
Ive looked at the Notification of Intention to Take Benefits form that Mr D completed  prior to 
making his final annuity  choices.  The form asked  Mr D to provide his wifes name and date 
of birth if he wanted Prudential to send him a joint life annuity quotation along with other 
information. I can see that Mr D provided the required details for this. 
While this may support  Mr Ds argument  that he had intended for annuity ending 680 to be 
set up on a joint life basis, I dont think it shows that Prudential has done anything wrong. 
The Notification of Intention to Take Benefits  form Mr D completed  wasnt  his final instruction 
to Prudential regarding  how he wanted  his annuities to be set up. The Benefit Instruction 
Form was. The Notification of Intention to Take Benefits form served as Mr Ds confirmation 
that he intended to take benefits  at age 65 and that he required information  about joint life 
annuities. Not that he required annuity  ending 680 to be set up on a joint life basis.
I dont think the fact that Mr D opted for one of his annuities to be on a single life basis,  when 
he originally requested information  about  joint life annuities wouldve or shouldve given 
Prudential cause to question Mr Ds final annuity  choices or made  it think  there  was any 
inconsistency in the paperwork Mr D had completed. I say this because  it wouldnt be 
unusual for a consumer  to request  quotations for annuities  on a number  of different bases to 
establish which the right option for them is. But a request for information or an annuity 
quotation on a specific basis  is not an expression of wish. I think it wouldve been  reasonable 
for Prudential to assume that despite  asking for information on joint life annuities  that Mr D 
had simply changed  his mind following receipt of information about these and decided this 
option wasnt for him when he made  his final annuity  selections.  
Because of this Im unable to agree with Mr Ds assertion that it was obvious from paperwork 
he completed that the single life annuity he selected  was not in keeping with his wishes.
I understand Mr D thinks Prudential has made a mistake and in doing so taken financial 
advantage of him. But Id like to reassure him that having carefully considered the matter  I 
havent found anything to support this. It may be that it was Mr Ds intention  for his annuity 
ending 680 to be set up on a joint life basis however Prudential  had to rely on the information 
Mr D provided  it with regarding his choices at the time. Mr D requested  that annuity ending  
680 be set up on a single  life basis and in accordance with his wishes  this is what Prudential 
did. 
I understand that Mr D is disappointed that his wife wont  receive  the benefit he says he 
intended for her to receive  under his annuity ending 680. But I can only uphold this complaint 
if I think Prudential has done  something wrong.  And from what  Ive seen I dont think  it has. 
I know Mr D feels  strongly  that he wouldve chosen an annuity  that provided  for his wife in 
the event that he passed  away. And I certainly dont doubt what  Mr B has said about it 
having always been his intention to provide  for his wife. But I must also have regard for what 
Mr Ds documented choices were in 2010.  I cant say precisely why Mr D made the choice 
Ref: DRN45252134he did. But its worth  noting that whilst the choice  he made didnt include provision for his 
wife it did mean that a higher pension  was payable for at least  5 years.
Taking into account all the available evidence,  while I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position, Im 
unable to find that Prudential did anything wrong when it set up his annuity ending  680. 
Prudential fulfilled its obligation regarding the information it provided to Mr D. And Im 
satisfied the annuity Prudential set up was the one Mr D chose. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr D is hoping  for. But for the reasons outlined above,  I 
dont think Im in a position to say that Prudential has acted  unreasonably  or that it should 
now change the basis on which  Mr Ds annuity under 680 was originally set up.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4525213