K820x#14Complaint
Miss R is unhappy with what Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch) did after she made a claim 
on her private medical insurance policy. 
All references to Arch include its claims handlers.  
Background
In September  2017 Arch acknowledged a new claim Miss R had made. It provided details of 
the next steps and attached a consent  form which it said needs to be signed  by yourself and 
gives us permission to liaise  with your treating specialists and GP, if necessary . Miss R 
queried why she had to return this form and said she hadnt had to do this in relation to 
previous claims.  Arch provided more information  about this but also explained it wasnt 
compulsory to provide  the form for her claim to be progressed.  
There was further  contact around  this issue and in November Miss R said shed had her 
procedure done  on the NHS because the responses  shed received didnt address her 
concerns about  this. Arch said it had sought  further  advice and would be making  some  
changes to its procedures  to make it clear  completing the consent form was voluntary. It 
apologised for any confusion Miss R had been caused. 
Our investigator didnt  think Arch needed to do anything more.  Miss R didnt agree. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss R was concerned to receive  a request from Arch for a consent form to be 
completed when  she first made her claim. Shes  explained that didnt happen on previous 
claims shed made and didnt understand why the form needed to be returned for her claim 
to be progressed. And Arch has accepted the wording of its initial correspondence could 
have been better
But when Miss R got in touch  with Arch about  this it made clear  she didnt need to sign the 
form for her claim to be progressed  and gave a reasonable explanation as to why the 
position might have been different in relation  to other claims shed made. I appreciate  Miss R 
remained unhappy with those responses  and subsequently decided  to have her procedure  
carried out on the NHS. However, I think that was a decision she made and I dont  think its 
something for which Arch is responsible. 
Arch has also explained its now made  changes to its correspondence  to make clear  the 
provision of the consent form is voluntary  (although not providing it could lead to a delay in a 
claim being agreed). Its also apologised to Miss R for the confusion she was caused.  I think 
thats a reasonable way of dealing with the issue she raised and I dont think Arch needs to 
do more to put things right. 
Ref: DRN44283082I know Miss R also is also concerned about the decline of a different claim. But thats  not 
something Im considering  in this decision;  thats  been considered  as part of a separate  
complaint. As Miss R didnt agree with what the investigator said that complaint is waiting to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept  or reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4428308