K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) miss-sold  them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  when  they took out a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2003 Mr and Mrs T took out a joint PPI policy when they applied  for and took out a 
mortgage during  a branch  visit. The policy was designed to protect their mortgage  payments 
in the event either of them couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy was split on a 50/50 basis, providing  them each with a monthly benefit of just 
under £200  and it cost under £24 a month.
Mr and Mrs T also took out life cover  and critical illness cover as part of the overall package  
of protection called Total Mortgage Protection Plan. But Mr and Mrs T have only complained 
about the PPI element of the cover as Ive described above  so my decision is only about 
PPI.
Mr and Mrs T changed their mortgage  around  2005  at which  point their mortgage  became 
a regulated mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought it likely Mr and Mrs T 
chose to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs T disagree  they say they werent told about and what  it would cost.  They  also 
say they had good employment benefits and so didnt need it.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided Mr and Mrs T havent lost out as a result of having PPI with their mortgage 
because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this.
While BoS doesnt  have all of the paperwork from the time, based  on what we know 
about how BoS sold PPI policies like Mr and Mrs Ts, I think its likely it was made clear 
to them  they had a choice  about it. For example they had to sign separate paperwork for 
it. And I have seen a separate  signed  mandate to allow the PPI premiums to be taken.
So, on the basis that Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something different 
happened in Mr and Mrs Ts case,  I think they chose and agreed  to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN47897672BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them - and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
such as those for existing medical  conditions or unusual  employment circumstances - 
and they seem to have had a need  for the cover.
I can see Mr and Mrs T told us they each had 12 months sick pay as well as other 
means they couldve used if things went wrong.  I find it unlikely they were each entitled 
to 12 months or more  full sick pay  in my view this level of sick pay is very unusual. But 
on the basis that it was still nevertheless at least six months full pay and then a period of 
half pay, I still think the policy was suitable.  It wouldve paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and for longer if necessary   up to 24 months per claim. This wouldve allowed Mr 
and Mrs T to use existing means to help them meet other ongoing household and fixed 
expenditure. And at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time,  I think  it 
wouldve been not only useful to them but also given them  peace of mind that their 
mortgage - and ultimately their home - was protected.
I therefore dont  think it was wrong  for BoS to have recommended PPI.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  as I said if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs T told us they made a successful claim on the policy, so it 
doesnt appear that the policy operated fundamentally differently from what they were  
expecting based on the information they were given at the time.
So this means  that BoS doesnt  have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T what  they paid for PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said - including what  theyve  said in their 
response to the adjudicators opinion when they asked for an ombudsmans decision. But 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint or make  any 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789767