K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mrs W bought the policy  at some point  from March 1996 when she took out a credit card.  
Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm  the exact date the PPI was sold, so Ive considered  it as 
March 1996, when Mrs W applied  for the credit card.
Lloyds has also shown  that Mrs W had two credit cards linked to the same account, which 
couldve been covered by the same PPI policy. As it looks  like there  was only one sale of 
PPI, I havent considered  the two cards  separately.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
I think Lloyds made  Mrs W aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I havent seen an actual copy of Mrs Ws credit card application form but Ive 
seen a sample of what Lloyds says she wouldve filled in at the time. It includes a section to 
select for PPI by ticking a separate box. And I think its more likely than not that Mrs W ticked  
this box in order for Mrs W to add the policy to her account.  
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs W, and it seems  to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs W says she didnt need  PPI because she was entitled to fairly generous  sick pay from 
her employer, plus redundancy  pay. But even so, the PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Mrs W had needed to make a claim,  for example if she was too unwell to work or if 
shed lost her job. And I havent seen anything that wouldve prevented Mrs W from being 
able to claim  such as a pre-existing medical  condition or unusual  working  arrangements.  
So I dont  think Lloyds  made an unfair  recommendation. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main  things  the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying 
it. 
Ref: DRN48904792Ive taken into account everything Mrs W has said, and I want  to reassure her Ive thought  
about it carefully. But having weighed  up what I think  is most likely to have happened,  I dont 
think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4890479