K820x#14complaint
Mr O claims that Black  Horse Limited  has unfairly recorded a default on his credit file for a 
debt he says he does  not owe. He wants the default  removed and the debt cancelled.
background
Mr O tells us he acquired a vehicle in 2011 through a finance agreement  provided  by Black 
Horse. But in 2015 he says the vehicle was involved in an accident  and became  an 
insurance write-off. He says his insurers told him it would pay the claim proceeds to Black 
Horse and as far as was aware the sum of £5,000 was requested  and paid. So he thought 
the agreement  had been settled. Mr O says hes now found that Black  Horse  defaulted his 
account in 2015  - and is saying he owes over £3,000  - which he denies.
Black Horse  told us Mr O had entered into the finance agreement in 2011. But arrears had 
accumulated in 2014. It said it had started  legal  action to recover  the vehicle and associated  
costs and it had obtained a court judgment in September 2015. But it was notified in October  
2015 that the vehicle  had been involved in an accident. It said it provided  a settlement figure 
of £6,979.83 but later received only £5,630  from the vehicles insurers.
Black Horse  said the account had been  correctly  defaulted and recorded  as such  on Mr Os 
credit file. It said the amount that was now owed was £3,668.26 (including late payment 
interest and collection  activity fee) but it would  accept £1,030.56 to settle  the account. And if 
Mr O paid this sum it would arrange to have the default recorded  as having been  satisfied.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that the 
evidence showed  Mr Os account had an outstanding balance  - as the insurance  payment 
did not cover  the full amount owed.  And that the default was placed  on Mr Os credit file as 
the outstanding sum had not been paid.
Mr O did not agree with this outcome  and disputed the settlement figure provided by Black 
Horse. As its not been possible to resolve  the complaint  an ombudsman has been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr O would be upset  at finding out that repayments  on a loan he thought 
had been settled were still outstanding. And I can also appreciate his concern that this had 
led to a default being recorded on his credit file.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. And where  evidence is unclear or incomplete - as some of it is 
here - I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide 
what is the most likely  explanation  to account  for whats happened.
Ive seen evidence  that Mr O acquired a vehicle through a hire purchase agreement in late 
2011. And the agreement was scheduled  to last for 60 months.  The total amount due to be 
repaid on the agreement  came to just under £18,000.
Ref: DRN41721822From what  I can see the repayments  were  made  as required until January 2014  - when they 
ceased. The balance  remaining at that time was £8,833.26. The debt was later passed to 
Black Horses recovery team which  commenced  legal proceedings. This resulted in a court 
judgment being issued on 18 September 2015 which required Mr O to return the vehicle to 
Black Horse  and pay costs.
In October  2015 Black  Horse was notified  that the vehicle had been involved in an accident. 
A settlement figure of £6,973.83 was then provided to the insurers of the vehicle. And in May 
2016 a sum of £5,630  was paid to Black Horse.  This meant there was still a balance  
outstanding on the agreement.
Mr O has made reference to an earlier settlement figure of £5,000  having  been agreed.  But I 
can see the offer period for this remained open  only until December 2014. And when 
payment had not been made the offer lapsed.
Black Horse  has now offered to accept £1,030.56 to settle the account and has advised Mr 
O that if this sum is paid it will record the default  as satisfied. 
Im aware Mr O disputes the validity of the outstanding balance which Black Horse  claims. 
But Ive seen evidence  which supports  it - in the form of the records  of payments received - 
and Mr O has not provided any plausible evidence to contradict this. Ive also seen copies of 
correspondence sent to Mr O regarding the debt and prior to court action. Ive seen nothing  
to suggest he replied or made any repayments.  So I cant  say Black Horse  did anything  
wrong in having  a default recorded  in respect  of this account.
In this case a court  also found Mr O had breached the terms of the hire purchase agreement  
- and I cant  overrule the decision of a court. The judgment notified Mr O that if he didnt pay 
the sum ordered  - £465 costs - the judgment  would be entered  on a public register and 
notified to the credit  reference agencies. 
In summary,  the evidence  of arrears, along  with the court  judgment, shows  Mr O did not 
comply with the terms of the agreement. And I think Black Horse is entitled to recover the 
balance still owed.  
I believe it was entitled to have a default  recorded and its offer to mark that as satisfied  - 
provided Mr O repays £1030.56 - is fair and reasonable.  Whilst I know it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr O Im not upholding this complaint and I shant be asking Black  Horse 
to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4172182