K822xMr L, Mrs W and Mrs P hold power  of attorney for Mrs L. Mr L, Mrs W and Mrs P bring this 
complaint on behalf of Mrs L in relation to the accounts she holds  with the Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. The complaint largely concerns issues experienced by Mr L in dealing  with these 
accounts and the subsequent effect on Mrs L. So, while  all three attorneys have agreed to 
the complaint  being brought, I will mostly refer to Mr L as Mrs Ls representative.
complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC caused  delays dealing  with an application to be 
registered as having power  of attorney on Mrs Ls accounts and that it lost personal 
information in the process. 
background 
Mr L had a meeting  in branch in February 2018 to register a power of attorney  (POA) with 
Barclays and so have  designated authority to act on Mrs Ls account. Identification 
documents and forms were provided to allow the POA to be registered and Barclays  took 
copies of these  to be sent internally for processing. These documents included  personal 
information belonging to both Mr L and Mrs L.
Shortly afterwards the two further attorneys,  Mrs P and Mrs W, got in touch with Barclays to 
also register their authority on Mrs Ls account. During their application it came to light Mr Ls 
application had not been processed. Mrs P and Mrs W let Mr L know what theyd been  told.
Mr L contacted the branch to find out what had happened. It explained that some  of the 
documents hed provided, that were  sent internally  for processing,  had been misplaced.
Mr L complained to Barclays that it had lost sensitive personal  information and couldnt give 
any reassurance about what  had happened. He also complained about the level of service 
hed received from the branch which had made  an already difficult time, as the reason for 
registering the POA  was that Mrs L was dealing with a serious  illness,  more distressing.
On 25 April 2018 Barclays wrote  to Mrs L to say her POA had been registered and that Mr L 
could carry out transactions for her.
In response to the complaint, Barclays agreed  that Mr L had received poor customer  service  
and apologised  for this. It said that copy information  relating  to POA applications is sent 
internally to be processed by the correct department. When  opened,  documents  can 
sometimes get separated.  Barclays says if this happens, and the separated documents cant 
then be matched to the relevant enquiry, they will be securely  destroyed. While it couldnt be 
certain this was what had happened here,  it was confident that this process wouldve been 
followed so the misplaced documents had likely been destroyed. It offered Mr L £150  for the 
distress caused. It also confirmed that, as the application documents  had been misplaced, 
hed need to complete an additional form for the POA registration to be completed.
Mr L says he has completed  this additional form on several different occasions, including 
once in June 2018, and returned it to Barclays. He says he has been able to carry out 
transactions on the account and when  he has made enquiries, branch staff have confirmed 
the registration has been done.
In terms of the complaint Mr L remained unhappy  with whatd happened and didnt feel 
Barclays offer reflected  the trouble that had been caused. He also felt that Barclays  had not 
investigated the complaint properly. So he asked us to look into it.
Ref: DRN48873022An investigator looked into the complaint. He agreed Barclays had provided  poor service  and 
had lost personal information, which was understandably a point  of concern. He explained 
that as Mrs L is the account holder, he needed  to think about  the impact  on her. Having done 
so he thought Barclays should  pay Mrs L £400 for the upset caused by the delays in 
registering Mr L as an attorney, the poor customer service and for losing personal 
information. He said that this was in addition to the £150 Barclays  had offered to pay Mr L. 
Barclays agreed with the investigators opinion. It also said that the required form to 
complete the registration of Mr L as an attorney, particularly the relevant signature page,  had 
still not been received. And that this could lead to the registration being cancelled  in the 
future. 
The investigator explained this to Mr L. He did not agree with their opinion as he didnt think  
the recommendation accurately reflected the distress caused. And he provided  additional  
information to support  that he thought the registration had been  completed.  
As Mr L didnt agree  with the investigators  opinion the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account  with Barclays  is held by Mrs L. So she is the person eligible to bring the 
complaint to our service. So while Mr L is representing Mrs L as her attorney, it is the impact  
on Mrs L of what has happened that Ive considered. 
It isnt in dispute that some of the documents Mr L provided to Barclays  in February 2018 did 
not reach the intended team for processing, so seem to have been lost while in Barclays 
possession. Mr L has understandably said he and Mrs L have concerns over what  happened 
to the documents that were lost. 
Barclays has said it has a procedure to deal with instances where  documents are lost or 
separated internally. Where this happens and they are passed to the wrong team or 
department and not reconciled to the activity taking place  in this case  processing  the POA  
 they will be securely destroyed. But it has explained it doesnt  keep records of what it 
destroys.
I know Mr L is unhappy with the explanation Barclays has given  and would like certainty over 
what happened to the documents. But that isnt something our service is able to provide. 
Barclays has confirmed records are unavailable.  So, we cant know for sure what happened. 
Where there is incomplete information,  as is the case here, we look at what  we think is most  
likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities and whether the business has acted 
reasonably.
Ref: DRN48873023Barclays accepts that the documents  did not reach  the team responsible  for processing  the 
POA application.  On balance I think its likely that Barclays followed its internal procedure as 
it has explained and that these documents were destroyed. I say this as there appear to be 
no direct  consequences  as a result  of the missing  documents and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest differently.  I know Mr L is unhappy  with this process and explanation and doesnt 
think it is acceptable. But I dont  think there  is anything further that Barclays can provide to 
explain with certainty  what has happened. It may also help if I explain at this point we are not 
a regulator and it isnt our role to tell a business what  procedures  it must have in place. 
Turning to the current position with the account, there is still a disagreement between Mr L 
and Barclays over whether the POA has now been registered.
As I mentioned Mrs L received a letter  in April 2018  saying the POA  had been  set up and 
Mr L could transact on her behalf.  Mr L has also said branch staff have confirmed  the POA  is 
in place and he says he has been  able to carry out transactions on the account.
Barclays says that the POA itself was set up when  Mrs P and Mrs W registered their 
authority. As the documents they provided  confirmed Mr L was also an appointed attorney, 
he was provisionally  registered. But it says it has not received the section of the form that he 
was required to sign, so doesnt have his signature  on its records  something it confirmed to 
him over the phone in May 2018.  It has explained that when Mr L goes into branch, the 
information available to branch staff will show the POA itself as active and that he is one of 
the named attorneys. But it wont show the provisional status of his registration or that the 
signature was still required.
Mr L says he has provided  the signed  form on a number of occasions, including  in branch. 
And I have  no reason  to doubt that he has tried to complete this process.  But Barclays says 
it doesnt have  any record of this having been  received. 
I can understand Mr Ls frustration given  how long this has been ongoing and the confusion  
based on the contrasting information he was given in branch and because  he has been able 
to make transactions on the account.  But Barclays has confirmed it still has no record  of 
having received  the signed  section of the form. And it has explained  that this could cause 
issues moving forward including his authority being withdrawn, which may in turn have an 
impact on the effective running  of Mrs Ls account.  
I know Mr L feels strongly about this but if Barclays does not have a record  of the complete 
information it needs then it seems  this is still required. And the most appropriate way to 
resolve this issue would be for the relevant authority to be provided again. Given that, on 
balance, I think its likely  Mr L has attempted to complete  this information previously but has 
been unsuccessful, I think itd be appropriate for Barclays to make arrangements with Mr L 
for this to be completed  and to make  this as simple and easy  as possible for Mr L. This could 
be either providing Mr L with the relevant form and paying for them to be returned  via 
recorded delivery or arranging a meeting in branch, with an adviser that has been  given the 
background to the situation  and is aware of what needs to be completed and how.  But I think 
Barclays needs to liaise with Mr L and make arrangements that are convenient for him.
If however Mr L declines to provide this information, then I think Barclays  would be entitled  to 
follow its internal processes for where  incomplete information has been received.
Ref: DRN48873024Overall there appears to be no dispute that there  were errors made by Barclays  when 
dealing with the application  to register the POA and add Mr L as an attorney to Mrs Ls 
account. So what is left for me to decide  is what the fair way to address these errors is.
Given what Mr L has explained  about  why the POA was registered,  I dont doubt that this 
was already a difficult time for he and Mrs L. And the stress of not knowing what  had 
happened to the personal information provided to Barclays, and the ongoing  uncertainty  over 
the registration of Mr L as an attorney,  probably  only added further upset. I also understand 
that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr L, as the other attorneys hadnt  had any issues  
when they registered on the account.  But again, its the impact on Mrs L that Im considering.
I know Mr L feels that the recommendation of the investigator  that Barclays pay Mrs L 
£400 for the distress caused, in addition to the £150 offered to him  doesnt go far enough. 
But unfortunately, its not possible  to now go back and change whats  already happened or 
possible to provide Mr L and Mrs L with the reassurances theyve sought about whats 
happened to their information.  The role of our service is to consider individual disputes 
informally and explain what we think is the fair and reasonable  way to resolve them. We do 
not fine or punish  businesses for errors made.
And having taken  everything into account, while I know Mr L feels strongly about this, I think  
the recommendation made by our investigator, which Barclays  has agreed to, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. To put things right Barclays  Bank  Plc should;
Pay Mrs L £400 for the upset and inconvenience caused by the poor customer 
service provided. This is in addition to the £150 it has offered to pay Mr L separately.  
And if it has not already done  so, Barclays should  also pay Mr L the £150. 
Contact Mr L and make arrangements for the missing information to be completed 
and returned so that the registration  of his authority as an attorney on Mrs Ls 
account can be fully completed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4887302