K820x#14complaint
Mr F, and the late Mrs K say St Andrews Insurance  Plc mis-sold  them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in October 1999.  I am sorry  to see Mrs K has passed 
away. In the hope that Mr F, Mrs R and Mrs F wont mind, I will refer to her as Mrs K in my 
decision.
The MPPI appears to have been  sold by Capital Bank Plc who Mr F and Mrs K took out a 
mortgage with. St Andrews Insurance Plc as the insurer has taken responsibility  for the 
complaint so to keep  things simple Ill refer to the business as St Andrews. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr F disagreed,  so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr F and Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr F and Mrs Ks 
consent before adding  the policy. Mr F says the policy was not presented as optional  and 
they werent asked  about it. There is not much  paperwork available  from the sale  but this 
isnt surprising considering how long ago it took place. So Ive considered  Mr Fs comments 
alongside what I know in general about  how these types of policies were sold.  
St Andrews  has provided a copy of the welcome  letter that Mr F and Mrs K wouldve been 
sent. This includes details  of how the MPPI has been set up, which  shows a
discussion is likely to have taken place  about  Mr Fs and Mrs Ks circumstances and
requirements. Whilst I cant  say for certain what was discussed, I think  its likely that the
MPPI wouldve been spoken about. And I think they wouldve questioned it at this stage if 
they had any concerns.
Based on the evidence  we do have I think its more likely that St Andrews made it clear that 
Mr F and Mrs K didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out. But given  how 
long ago this took place,  I can understand  why they may not remember this. 
St Andrews  recommended the MPPI to Mr F and Mrs K so it had to check  that the MPPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. I say this because:
Mr F and Mrs K were both eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the
MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements  or known medical conditions.
Mr F has referred to the employee benefits he and Mrs K had and say they were  
significant so they wouldnt need  the policy. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 
months if either Mr F or Mrs K were  off work due to accident or sickness.  It also 
Ref: DRN45309042wouldve also paid for up to 12 months  if either  of them  were  made  redundant. This 
means they wouldve had peace  of mind that part of the mortgage payment would be 
covered, and any employee  benefits could be used to help cover every day expenses 
or other financial commitments.
Mr F and Mrs K were taking on a significant  and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for them. And I think having the security  that their 
repayments wouldve  been made  if they were unable to work wouldve been  
important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr F and Mrs K. And as the
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled  the
policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr F and Mrs K about the MPPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something 
went wrong. So I dont  think better  information about  the MPPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr F, as he clearly  feels strongly  about their complaint. But I hope my 
decision clearly addresses  his concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F, Mrs R and 
Mrs F to accept  or reject  my decision before 22 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4530904