K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited has dealt with a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. He wants reimbursement  of his £3,500 repair costs and 
compensation for its lack of communication and his stress. 
background
Mr A said another  driver reversed into his parked  car causing damage. Mr A notified  
Advantage about this. He said he wanted  to make a claim  but decided to go through  a credit 
hire and repair company  so as not to pay his policy excess or affect his No Claims Discount 
(NCD). The other drivers insurer denied involvement. Advantage and the credit hire 
company tried to contact  Mr A without success, though Mr A didnt recall  this. So Advantage 
closed its file as it said Mr A hadnt contacted  it. Three years  later,  Mr A complained to 
Advantage that it hadnt communicated with him in writing and hed had to pay for his 
repairs. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Advantage had explained  to Mr A that it could deal with his repairs  and it couldnt  pursue the 
other driver for an admission of liability unless  it had a financial  outlay. He thought  Mr A had 
decided to pay for the repairs  himself to maintain his NCD. He thought it was for Mr A to 
contact Advantage  to pursue his claim but he hadnt done so until recently. 
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed,  so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said hed been waiting over two years for a response from Advantage about how the 
claim was progressing. Advantage  said it had tried to contact Mr A without success when the 
other insurer denied  involvement and it had then closed the claim. Mr A didnt recall any 
contacts. He said hed had nothing in writing  from Advantage.  
Ive looked at Advantages file notes.  I can see that the credit hire company received  
photographs that Mr A sent it. These  were  then forwarded to the other insurer  for a response 
but it denied liability.  The notes say that the credit hire company tried to contact Mr A by 
phone and text without success.  I cant see which phone numbers were tried. But as it had 
no further contact  from Mr A, Advantage closed the claim. 
I agree  that it would have been better if Advantage had put this in writing for Mr A. But Mr A 
had made  a claim and I think  he could  have contacted Advantage or the credit hire company 
to see what was happening with the claim.  So I havent seen evidence to say that Advantage 
failed to communicate with Mr A about the claim and so I dont require it to pay him any 
compensation for this. 
Mr A then paid for the repairs himself. I think Advantage had made  it clear  to Mr A that it 
could make the repairs and then it would be able to pursue the other  insurer to recover  the 
costs, albeit success couldnt be guaranteed. But Mr A had chosen to use credit  hire. I can 
see that he put this decision in writing  to Advantage. 
Ref: DRN49983772Credit hire doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this service,  as it not regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Therefore, this service considers that if a business refers  a 
consumer to a company  outside of this services jurisdiction it should make  sure it provides 
clear and sufficient information  to the consumer. It also should not rely on information that 
may be provided by the credit hire company  or any other unregulated third party.
That said,  we also check to see whether the consumer would have acted differently if better  
information had been given. I havent  seen records of how Mr A was referred to credit hire. 
But from the records Ive seen, Im satisfied  that Mr A chose to go with the credit hire 
company to avoid  having to pay his policy excess and to maintain his NCD. So I cant  say he 
would have acted  differently if hed been given better  information.  And so I cant  hold 
Advantage responsible for the credit hire companys actions. 
I think Advantage made it clear to Mr A that it could deal with his repairs but he decided to 
pay for his repairs himself. I think this prejudiced Advantages  position  as it didnt then have 
opportunity to recover these costs  from the other drivers insurer. So I cant reasonably  hold 
Advantage responsible for these  costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4998377