K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about end of contract  charges  when  his agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited ended.
background
In March 2014 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan.
In April 2018 the agreement ended and the car was inspected and collected. LeasePlan 
subsequently asked Mr C to pay charges totalling £497 relating to the following items:
Chips to the bonnet  £57
Gouge to the alloy rim £70
Scratches to the rear bumper  £150
Missing key £220
Mr C disputed the charges. He says the chips to the bonnet and the scratches to the rear 
bumper are fair wear  and tear. He accepts that the alloy rim is damaged and that the key is 
missing but disputes  the estimated costs of repairing/replacing  these items.
Mr C says LeasePlan sent him a guide  to fair wear and tear before he returned  the car. He 
says the guide contains a different definition of fair wear and tear to the BVLRA guidelines  
which were used when  the car was inspected. Mr C says he followed LeasePlans guide in 
considering whether there was damage which exceeded fair wear  and tear. He says if hed 
known that the condition  of the car would be judged by reference  to different guidelines, he 
would have arranged  for any necessary repairs to be carried  out before he returned the car.
Mr C also feels  that LeasePlan is charging  an unreasonable amount for the damage. He 
wants to see invoices.
In its final response,  LeasePlan  said the damage exceeded fair wear and tear and was 
chargeable.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said the charges for chips  to the bonnet 
should be removed  but the rest of the damage  exceeded fair wear and tear and was 
chargeable. The investigator also said the estimated costs of repair were reasonable. 
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that his point relating to the LeasePlan  fair wear and tear guide  
had been overlooked. He also felt that the charges were unfair because he couldve had the 
car repaired and/or the key replaced  at less cost himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr C must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Ref: DRN44340622Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  by 
finance companies as an industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair 
wear and tear. The BVLRA guidelines are also the guidelines which this service uses when 
looking at fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the images. This shows  damage to the bonnet,  
alloy rim and rear bumper  which LeasePlan says goes beyond fair wear and tear. The report  
also says that a key is missing.
Based on the BVLRA guidelines Im satisfied that the damage to the alloy rim and the rear 
bumper exceeds  fair wear  and tear. And Im satisfied  that the missing key is chargeable. 
However, I dont think the images of the chips on the bonnet clearly show  the corrosion 
which is mentioned  in the report. The BVLRA guidelines say that small areas of chipping  are 
acceptable. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the damage to the bonnet  exceeds fair 
wear and tear so I dont think its fair to charge Mr C for this.
I appreciate that Mr C feels that hes been treated unfairly because he was provided with 
LeasePlans guide to wear and tear before the car was returned. He says this is different to 
the BVLRA guidelines.  In particular, and in relation to the scratches on the rear bumper, Mr 
C says that LeasePlans guide  mentions only the length of the scratches and not the depth.
Ive looked at LeasePlans fair wear and tear guide. It says that all keys,  including  spare and 
master keys, must be returned  with the car. In relation  to vehicle body and paint it says that 
chips and scratches up to 10cm are acceptable  provided that they can be removed by 
mechanical polishing.  It says that any chips,  scratches,  scuffs  and abrasions which  are not 
possible to remove by mechanical polishing are unacceptable.
In Mr Cs case, the inspection report images show that the rear bumper has been scratched 
to the extent that the base  coat (primer) of the paintwork has been exposed.
Whilst I agree with Mr C that the LeasePlan guide doesnt mention anything  about the depth 
of scratches,  Im satisfied  that the guide  makes it clear that scratches which  cannot be 
removed by mechanical polishing are unacceptable  and therefore  chargeable. The scratches 
on Mr Cs bumper have exposed the primer so cant be removed by polishing. Because  of 
this, Im satisfied that both with reference  to the LeasePlan guide  and the BVLRA guidelines, 
the scratches exceed fair wear  and tear.
Mr C is also unhappy about the estimated costs of repairing the damage and replacing the 
key. He thinks the charges are excessive.
Clause 10.6.1  of the agreement says that if LeasePlan decides not to repair or replace items 
which exceed fair wear  and tear, it is entitled to claim a sum equivalent to the estimated 
costs of repair or replacement. This is what LeasePlan has done in Mr Cs case. Im unable 
to ask Leaseplan to provide invoices when it hasnt carried  out the repairs  but I have thought 
about whether  the estimated charges are reasonable.
Ive taken account of what  Mr C has said about  (for instance)  being  able to get a key at a 
cheaper cost. Whilst I dont necessarily disagree  that replacement  car keys can be obtained 
for less than £220,  I dont think a key at this price would meet  the requirements of the 
agreement. I would need to be satisfied that an £80 key was exactly the same key as was 
supplied at the beginning of the agreement. In other  words,  the key needs to be a brand new 
manufacturers key, not a second hand or aftermarket key. I havent  seen any evidence  to 
Ref: DRN44340623persuade me that £220 is an unreasonable sum for a brand new manufacturers key. 
Further, I havent seen  anything to suggest  that the estimated repair costs are unreasonable.  
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, and apart  from the damage to 
the bonnet which Ive commented on above,  Im satisfied that the damage  goes beyond fair 
wear and tear and is chargeable.  In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  I dont think  
that the charges themselves are unreasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. LeasePlan UK Limited should waive 
the charges in relation  to the chips on the bonnet.  The rest of the charges remain payable  by 
Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4434062