K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurant) handling of his 
claim made on a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy  in June 2018.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 20 May 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision. Assurant agreed  with my 
provisional findings and said it didnt have  anything further to add. Mr B, while  confirming he 
had received my provisional decision,  didnt  respond  with anything further for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr Bs complaint.
Assurant General Insurance Limited acted fairly in assessing Mr Bs claim in June 2018. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited has acted fairly in not seeking to recover  any 
overpayments made  on Mr Bs claims in 2015 and 2016.
Should Mr B want his June 2018 claim to be considered in light of what I have said above, 
and alongside  the policy terms which included a 60-day  waiting period, then he should 
contact Assurant General  Insurance  Limited.
Assurant General Insurance Limited doesnt  need  to reinstate Mr Bs policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46327502Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B is unhappy  with Assurant General  Insurance Limiteds (Assurant)  handling of his claim made  
on a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in June 2018.
background
In June 2018,  Mr B contacted Assurant to make a claim under his PPI policy  following  an accident. Mr 
B was advised that his PPI policy had a 60-day excess (waiting)  period. So Mr B had to be off work  
for 60 days before  this PPI policy  would  pay out, with the PPI policy  paying out for every full 30 days 
after the waiting period.
Mr B was unhappy  as he had two previous claims  under his PPI policy in 2015 and 2016. These 
claims were  accepted by Assurant with a 30-day waiting  period and with the monthly benefit  being  
paid back to the start of the claim. 
Mr B complained to Assurant about the 60-day waiting  period and cancelled  the insurance.
Assurant explained that Mr Bs previous claims  in 2015 and 2016 had been assessed in error, and 
had not taken  into account the correct waiting period. As Mr Bs monthly  benefit  in the event  of a 
successful claim  was £411.42, Assurant explained that it had incorrectly overpaid Mr B four months  
benefit over the two earlier  claims, totalling £1,645.68.
Assurant explained that it would not ask Mr B to repay these overpayments as it was their mistake 
and Mr B wasnt likely aware that he wasnt entitled  to these payments.  But Assurant explained that in 
assessing Mr Bs claim  for June 2018  it was fair for it to do so in accordance with the actual  policy 
terms  which included the 60-day waiting  period.
While the complaint was with our service,  Mr B sought to reinstate  his policy as he needed  to claim for 
a period in October  2018. Assurant said that it wouldnt  seek to reinstate the policy as Mr B had 
cancelled it because he wasnt  happy  with the 60-day waiting period and Mr B was only seeking  to 
reinstate the policy because he now needed to claim. Assurant explained that Mr B wasnt insured 
when the claim event  occurred  so even  if it reinstated the policy it wouldnt be able to assess Mr Bs 
latest claim.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought Assurant hadnt acted fairly. She thought that 
Assurant had given Mr B a reasonable expectation through the two earlier claims that his policy, in the 
event of a successful claim, would pay back to the start date of a claim. Because  of this she thought  
that it would be fair for Assurant  to assess Mr Bs June 2018 claim  in the same way. So if the claim 
was successful Assurant should pay the claim,  waiving the 60-day waiting period, and paying  back to 
the first day Mr B was unable to work.  
She also explained that any future  claims should be assessed in line with the actual policy terms,  
meaning there would be a 60-day waiting period.  But as Mr B had cancelled  his policy  because of the 
60-day waiting period, Mr B would still have cancelled his policy and so she thought  the policy  
shouldnt be reinstated. 
Assurant agreed with the adjudicators  findings that the policy shouldnt be reinstated, but importantly, 
it disagreed that the June  2018 claim should be assessed without the 60-day waiting period.  Assurant 
reiterated that it made an error in assessing  the two earlier claims and wouldnt  seek  the 
overpayments it had made to Mr B but thought  it was fair to apply the relevant policy terms  including 
the 60-day waiting period  for the claim  Mr B wanted to make in June 2018.  
As Assurant  didnt agree  with the adjudicators findings, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN46327503my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I disagree with our adjudicators  findings. I know this will disappoint Mr B, so Id like 
to explain why.
the claim in June 2018
I have referred to Mr Bs policy terms. The policy states:
5.   Incapacity Benefits
5.1. There is a 60 day Deferred Period during which no benefit is payable in respect of 
Incapacity claims. If You are Working and become  Incapacitated for at least  60 days in a 
row, We will pay You one Monthly Benefit  at the end of each full 30 day period after the 
Deferred Period has expired. If after the initial 60 day Deferred Period , Your Incapacitation 
is for less than 30 days, We will pay 1/30th  of one monthly benefit for each  day You are 
Incapacitated .
Given the above,  Mr Bs policy included  a waiting  period of 60 days where no benefit  was payable.  
And for every (full) 30 days after the waiting  period Mr B would then receive the monthly benefit. So 
when Mr B contacted Assurant to claim under  his policy in June 2018, it was fair for it to apply the 
terms of Mr Bs policy.
I have then gone on to consider whether, because of Assurants errors  in paying Mr Bs earlier claims  
back to the start date, means  it should  do so for the June 2018 claim. 
Having done so, I dont  think it does. Assurant made an error, and its error benefited Mr B with 
Assurant paying £1,645.68 over the two claims in 2015 and 2016 when  it shouldnt  have done. It was 
for Assurant  to assess the claims in 2015 and 2016 alongside the policy terms. It did so incorrectly on 
Mr Bs first two claims, and this wasnt Mr Bs fault. Assurant arent  seeking to recover those  
overpayments because of this  and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
Mr Bs policy had a 60-day  waiting period where no benefit was payable  in that time.  Just because  
Assurant made an error in assessing Mr Bs first two claims doesnt mean  that it has to assess every 
claim thereafter on the same  basis now that its realised its mistake. I think it is fair, that in assessing 
any claim, the correct  policy terms are applied. And after spotting its earlier errors, that is what 
Assurant intended to do. 
I think  Assurant were correct, after spotting  its error,  to advise Mr B of the correct policy terms in June 
2018 which included the 60-day waiting period. 
It follows that, should Mr B wish for his June 2018 claim  to be assessed, Assurant  should do so taking 
into consideration  the 60-day waiting period.  I note that Mr B cancelled his policy shortly after  as he 
was unhappy with the length of the waiting period Assurant  wanted to apply. If Mr B does want his 
claim for June  2018  to be assessed (because he was off work for longer than 60 days) then he should 
contact Assurant. Mr B should bear in mind Assurant, if a claim is payable,  may need to deduct any 
premiums that would have been required  in order to keep the policy running - for the duration of the 
claim. 
Ref: DRN46327504should the policy be reinstated?
Mr B cancelled the policy because he was unhappy with the 60-day  waiting  period.  So I think Mr B, 
whether he continued with the claim  in June  2018  or not, would have most likely  cancelled the policy. 
I dont think it is important  when he cancelled  the policy   just that he thought it wasnt right for him 
and decided  to cancel it. Mr B may well have gone ahead with the June 2018 claim and then 
cancelled it once the claim had ended, or if he wasnt  off work for 60 days, he may well have gone 
ahead and cancelled it when he did. 
So I am of the opinion that it is fair for Assurant  to not reinstate the policy.  Mr B made  a decision that 
the policy  wasnt right for him and chose to cancel the policy. Mr B needed  to claim again in October 
2018 and sought to reinstate the policy at that point. But the policy  had already  been cancelled.  There  
wasnt a policy in place  at the time Mr B needed to claim. I agree with Assurant  that, even if the policy 
was reinstated,  Mr B wasnt actually insured at the point of needing to claim. And therefore  no claim 
could be considered.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.
Assurant General Insurance Limited acted  fairly  in assessing Mr Bs claim in June  2018. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited has acted  fairly  in not seeking  to recover any overpayments  
made on Mr Bs claims in 2015 and 2016.
Should Mr B want  his June 2018  claim to be considered in light of what I have said above, and 
alongside the policy terms which included a 60-day  waiting period, then he should  contact Assurant 
General Insurance  Limited.
Assurant General Insurance Limited doesnt need to reinstate Mr Bs policy.
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider  by 20 June 2019. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4632750