K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Skipton Building  Society  wont refund a transaction  she didnt 
authorise. 
background
On 20 December 2018, Mr and Mrs B received a call from a fraudster, who said they worked 
for a well-known telecommunications company. Their broadband wasnt working the day 
before. 
The fraudster told them that hackers had tried to access their bank accounts, and they 
needed to look around the computer to see exactly what had been  interfered with. To do that 
theyd download  some special software  and theyd need to log on to all their financial 
accounts. The call lasted  over two hours, and the screen went blank from time to time. 
Towards the end, the fraudster  showed them that there was £20,000 too much in one of their 
accounts. He said it was his own money hed mistakenly paid to them, and theyd need  to 
return it. At this point, Mr and Mrs B became  suspicious  so they hung  up. 
After the call, Mr and Mrs B contacted their various  account providers about what  happened. 
Given the number  of providers, they didnt speak to Mrs Bs ISA provider, Skipton, until the 
following day. It confirmed  that her ISA had been closed, with the balance  of £15,666.70  
transferred to another account at 11.52am.  
Mrs B raised concerns about what happened. In particular, that Skipton didnt notice that the 
withdrawal was unusual  and didnt check whether she had made the transaction.  
Skipton got back £2,778.80 from the bank where the money  was sent to, but it wouldnt 
refund the rest. It confirmed that the account  was accessed as normal with the appropriate 
security requirements. This included the use of Mrs Bs grid card,  which wouldve been used 
to generate a grid card reference  in order to set up a new nominated bank account. 
It noted that Mrs B now says she didnt provide the grid card reference, but the fraudster 
mightve overheard  something she said to Mr B. But when Mrs B first called  Skipton,  she 
said Mr B put the codes in the little boxes.  Given that this wouldve happened  on the 
withdrawal screen, this shouldve rung alarm bells.  
It also pointed to the delay in notifying  Skipton about what happened   she didnt  call until 
9.21am the following  day. It added that Mrs Bs ISA was the last to be targeted  by the 
fraudster, after around 40 others. Given the length  of the call and the number of accounts  
involved, it said that Mrs B ought  to have been suspicious much earlier.  As a result,  it 
believed that Mrs Bs actions were  grossly negligent.  
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that Mrs B authorised the transaction or failed with gross 
negligence to keep  her security details safe.  So, in line with the Payment Service  
Regulations 2017, she recommended that Skipton put things right.  
As Skipton didnt  agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN44336772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Payment  Service Regulations  2017 (the PSRs), Mrs B is responsible for a 
transaction which:
-she authorised; or
-took place  because she failed with gross  negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms and conditions  of the account  or keep  her personalised security details safe
This approach is reflected  in the terms and conditions for the account, which adds the 
following detail about keeping your security details  safe:
4. Looking after  your security details
4.1 You must keep your security details safe.
This includes:
4.1.1 Never writing your security  details down in any way that could let 
someone who is not authorised by you access your
account.
4.1.2 Destroying any information from us about  your security details 
quickly.
4.1.3 Not telling us your full security details (well only ever ask you for 
part of them).
4.2 If you think someone you have not authorised might know your 
security details or someones  tried, or might  try, to use them to access  
your account, you must tell us as soon as possible by calling into one 
of our branches or by phoning  us
The terms and conditions  also say that if you are not liable for an unauthorised  payment, 
well refund the payment amount to your account as soon as possible and no later than the 
end of the next business day and well restore your account to how it would  have been  if the 
payment hadnt  been made.
Did Mrs B authorise  the transaction?  
Regulation 67 of the PSRs says that the payer  must give consent and it must be given in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between  the payer and its payment 
service provider. The payment services directive  itself (which the PSRs  2017 implement) 
says "In the absence of such  consent, a payment transaction shall be considered  to be 
unauthorised. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions to determine what the agreed form and procedure 
is for a payment to be made online.  The saving accounts terms and conditions say: 
16. Making payments from your account
16.1 When you authorise us to make  a payment, you must :
Ref: DRN4433677316.1.1 follow the security  procedures.
16.1.2 provide  the account  number  and sort code  of the account  you 
wish to be credited.
16.1.3 make  sure there  is enough  money in your account for the 
payment to be made 
16.2 You can instruct  us to make  a payment, or a series of payments, or 
cancel the payment by 
16.2.2 Where your account allows, using our online service.
3. Security procedures
3.1 In order to protect you and to allow you to deal with us securely, we will ask you 
to follow  certain security procedures as follows:
3.1.1 If you can manage your account  online you will use:
(a) The unique identification number  we gave you when you applied for your 
account or your current unique identification  number;
(b) A second form of authentication   for example a grid card or soft token  or 
equivalent once  your accounts  open;
(c) Your online password;  and
(d) Any of your answers to your security questions.
Ive thought about what this agreed  form and procedure  wouldve looked like in practice,  with 
reference to the screenshots Skipton has provided:  
1)Mrs B had to log in to her online account using the relevant security procedure.
2)To set up a new external account  to withdraw  money to, Mrs B had to use her grid 
card  a device where values  are generated by pressing buttons  at certain positions 
and these need to be entered onto the screen.  
3)On the next screen, she had to enter the account number and sort code of the 
account.  
4)With the external  account set up, Mrs B is then able to confirm the withdrawal. 
Ive considered whether Mrs B completed these steps. Its not disputed  she logged  on to her 
Skipton account  online   and it seems likely the software installed allowed remote  access to 
Mrs Bs computer.  So when she logged on, the fraudsters also gained access to her online 
account. 
Ive gone on to consider how the external account wouldve been  set up using the values 
from the grid card. Mrs B said to our service that she didnt share these with the fraudster, 
but she thought he couldve overheard something when she was talking with her husband. 
Skipton point out that when Mrs B first called it, she said her husband put the codes in the 
little boxes. 
This call is from the day after the fraud happened, so I think its a more  reliable account. That 
means I think its likely  Mrs B did use the grid card and relayed  the values for her husband  to 
enter. But I dont think that meant she also must  have been privy  to, or actually completed, 
the rest of the withdrawal process   for example, putting in the sort code and account 
number of the external account.  
Ref: DRN44336774In saying this, Ive considered that Mrs B has consistently told us that she did what  she did to 
protect her accounts. So, if shed  been asked to complete the rest of the withdrawal process 
 inputting account details and confirming  the withdrawal  I think  its likely this wouldve 
aroused suspicion. Going further, theres no plausible explanation for why the fraudster 
wouldve taken the risk in asking  Mrs B to do this, bearing in mind  that theyd remote access 
and couldve  done it themselves. 
Im also mindful of Mrs Bs recollection  that her computer screen went black  from time to 
time. She also recalled  seeing that one of her accounts has £20,000  more  in than it actually 
did. So, it seems the fraudsters were, through remote access, manipulating what  Mrs B 
could see on her screen  something  thats  very common in scams  of this nature. 
Taking this all into account, I think its likely that the fraudster, and not Mrs B, completed  the 
rest of the withdrawal  process  and this likely happened when they manipulated all or part 
of Mrs Bs screen to go black,  so she didnt realise what was happening.
So, in all, Im not satisfied  Mrs B completed all the agreed steps to make a payment from her 
account. It follows that I dont think she gave her consent in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure  agreed between her and Skipton. The transaction  was, therefore,  
unauthorised. 
Did Mrs B fail with gross  negligence  or intent to comply  with the terms of the 
account or keep their personalised  security details safe?  
Mrs B has an obligation  to act in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the account 
including keeping her security details safe. I think she did fail to do this, but I dont think  she 
intended to. Im satisfied  Mrs B thought  the actions she took were to protect her account. I 
dont think she understood that the actions  she took or her discussions with the fraudster, 
would mean  she wasnt  keeping her security  details safe.
So Ive gone  onto consider whether Mrs B was grossly negligent instead. Negligence is often  
referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. There  isnt an exact  definition  for gross 
negligence  but it suggests  a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  ordinary 
negligence or carelessness. So there needs to be a serious disregard or indifference to an 
obvious risk, meaning the bar is a high one.
In deciding this, Ive considered the overall  circumstances and in particular the steps that the 
fraudster took to reassure Mrs B and make the fraud  appear  genuine.
The fraudster told Mrs B that they were an engineer from a well-known internet service 
provider. While they use a different provider, they believed they were connected. And given 
how this provider is genuinely connected  with other  providers, I can see why they thought 
this. Mrs B hasnt told us they took steps to verify who they were speaking  to. But Im mindful 
that most  people dont   indeed, were more  used to businesses questioning  who we are 
than the other way around. 
Mrs B said shed been called in the days before this happened about her internet 
connection. They didnt  take much notice  of it at the time, but they subsequently experienced 
problems. So when  someone called and explained their internet  security had been 
compromised, it made sense to her and she believed them. I think  of lot of people  would 
have in these  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN44336775Ive gone on to consider how the fraudster  gained access to Mrs Bs computer using Team 
Viewer and encouraged her to log on to her Skipton account. The fraudster told them that 
hackers had tried to access their bank accounts,  and they needed to look around the 
computer to see exactly what had been interfered with. To do that theyd download some 
special software and theyd need  to log on to all their financial accounts.
Mrs B understood later that this software was TeamViewer,  which allowed remote  access to 
her computer  including any accounts she logged  into. But its not clear she appreciated the 
extent of what the software did as the scam was unfolding. Most people  arent  IT experts - 
and so, theyre unlikely  to be particularly familiar  with this kind of software and the extent of 
its capabilities. And in any event, TeamViewer is legitimately used to help with IT problems. 
So Im not surprised that this step didnt  ring alarm bells for Mrs B.
Mrs B logged onto various online accounts. But she did so believing  she was talking to a 
trusted professional,  and that shed been hacked  and was at risk. In this context, I can see 
why she did this, thinking that the steps would help to protect her and her money.  
Ive gone on to consider how the grid card values were shared. Having listened to Mrs Bs 
first call with Skipton when she reports the fraud,  she mentions that values were put in little 
boxes. But its not clear what little boxes they mean  understandably Mrs B sounds 
confused and flustered, given that shes just learnt  that her ISA was closed  and emptied the 
previous day. 
Whatever these boxes refer to, Im not convinced she was aware it was part of the 
withdrawal process. As I explained above, it seems  likely the fraudster manipulated their 
screen  so I think they couldve  hid any parts of the withdrawal process that might have 
alerted Mrs B to what was really going on. And having reviewed the screens for this process, 
I note that wouldnt  have been difficult to do  given that its a pop screen where you enter 
the grid card values,  and this has no reference to the withdrawal. 
From our experience of dealing with similar  cases,  fraudsters will often coach their victim into 
revealing this kind of information  saying its a necessary  step to protect  their account. And 
given how Mrs B has no clear recollection of how it all unfolded here,  I think its likely this 
wouldve happened here. As Ive said, most  people  arent experts in cyber  security  so they 
wont know what steps would legitimately be needed  to protect  their online banking. So in 
the heat of the moment, when Mrs B was naturally worried about their money,  I can see why 
she followed  the advice  of someone she believed  was a trusted professional and shared the 
information. Im not persuaded that in doing so, she fell so far below what  a reasonable 
person wouldve done that she acted with gross  negligence.  
In saying this, Ive considered Skiptons point about the length of the call and the providers 
involved. Im mindful that lengthy calls is a common tactic fraudsters use  to add an air of 
legitimacy to what theyre doing and to tire someone into revealing information. And here, 
given what Mrs B had been  told about how their accounts had been compromised, I can see 
why it made  sense to check all their providers.  So, I dont  think its enough to say that Mrs B 
ought to have caught on sooner  so much so that because she didnt, she failed with gross 
negligence. 
Other considerations 
Skipton say Mrs B ought to have reported this sooner.  Ive taken into account that under the 
PSRs, she needs  to report what happened without  undue delay on becoming aware  of any 
Ref: DRN44336776unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction. But having listened to her call 
with Skipton the morning after the fraud happened, she only learns  on that call that an 
unauthorised transaction took place.  So I dont think that theres been an undue  delay here 
under the PSRs. And generally, given the number of providers affected and that they had to 
call within business hours, I dont find the time they took to speak with Skipton unreasonable.  
Putting things  right
Because I dont think Mrs B authorised the transaction  or failed with intent or gross 
negligence, Im satisfied  that Skipton should put her back in the position she wouldve been  
in had the funds not been  withdrawn. To do this, Skipton need to: 
Reinstate Mrs Bs ISA, so it appears as if the withdrawal wasnt made.  
If thats  not possible, pay Mrs B the remaining unauthorised transaction of 
£12,877.90, plus any interest lost for the early withdrawal.  
Pay interest on this amount at the account rate from the date of the withdrawal to the
date of settlement.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I order  Skipton Building Society 
to settle the complaint as per the section  putting  things right  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4433677