K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Miss H. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  Canada Square sold 
Miss H the policy at the same time that she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss H has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Canada Square made  Miss H aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. I have 
seen evidence  of the online application process,  and there is a clear choice you have to 
choose between  accepting and rejecting PPI. And its not possible to go on with the card 
application until youve  made one of these choices. 
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Hs 
individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
The information Canada Square gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. There  was some information about  costs,  but not much about how long the 
benefits lasted,  unless you delved  into the more detailed policy  information.  But I dont 
think, in Miss Hs circumstances, full information about costs and benefits would have 
affected whether she took the PPI. I say this because it appears the PPI was affordable. 
And the PPI could  have lasted for longer than her full employer sick pay; and it seems 
she didnt have  substantial savings to fall back on, to cover her living  costs  if she lost 
her income from sickness or unemployment. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:  
Canada  Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square  has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN47789992my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4778999