K820x#14complaint
Mr E is complaining on behalf of IPM  a limited  company  that Lloyds Bank  PLC asked 
IPM to fill in the same form a number of times for its business bank account. 
background
IPM has a business  bank account  with Lloyds. In March 2019  Lloyds  wrote  to IPM to say 
that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  (OECD) required it to 
collect certain information about IPMs tax residence. And it sent him a form to complete. 
Mr E completed the form on behalf  of IPM and he said he completed  it as best he could. But 
Lloyds returned  the form as it said he hadnt  completed it correctly. And it asked him to 
complete the form again. Mr E was unhappy that Lloyds asked him to do so as he said he 
would just complete  it as he did before.  And he said Lloyds didnt tell him where hed 
completed it incorrectly. So he said he wasnt willing to fill the forms in again.
Mr E thinks  Lloyds  has treated him unfairly  and he says he felt underestimated and 
neglected. So he complained to Lloyds.  Lloyds said it wasnt  able to advise Mr E how to fill in 
the forms. And it said Mr E should get advice from an expert, such  as an accountant. It also 
advised him where the issue was on the form.
Mr E further complained  that Lloyds had sent IPM the form in the first place as he said a 
friend of his didnt  receive a form. So he queried  why Lloyds felt it needed to send the form 
to IPM. Mr E was also unhappy that Lloyds threatened  to report  him to the HMRC,  as he 
says he thought it might cause him problems with the Home Office.  He remained unhappy 
with Lloyds so he asked this service to step in.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably 
in sending the form to IPM to be completed. And the investigator thought  that it was required 
to do so. He was satisfied that Lloyds had complied with its legal requirements and he didnt 
think Lloyds had treated  him unfairly.  He said that Lloyds has confirmed that it only reports  
individuals or companies to HMRC if its necessary to comply  with UK Law.  And the 
investigator didnt  think  Lloyds had acted unreasonably.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He maintained that hed completed the form 
correctly and hed given Lloyds all the information it asked for. So he didnt think  he should 
have to complete  the form again.  As Mr E didnt  agree, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  for the same reasons as the investigator and Ill 
now explain  why.
Lloyds has shown that, due to a change in tax legislation, it was required by the OECD to 
ask IPM to provide  certain information. Given this, it said it was required to send the form in 
question to IPM to be completed. Im satisfied that it was required to do so, so I cant say 
that Lloyds has acted unfairly  in requiring IPM to complete this.
Ref: DRN43864292When Lloyds sent the form to IPM, it attached  a fact sheet explaining why it was asking for 
the information. And it set out in this form that IPMs tax advisor  may be able to assist  with 
completing the form. 
I dont dispute  that Mr E completed the form on behalf of IPM to the best of his knowledge 
and belief. But Lloyds  has explained  that part of the form was incorrect. And I dont think it 
was unfair  that it said this. Mr E set out on the form that IPM was a start-up non-financial 
entity (NFE). But Lloyds  didnt think that a start-up NFE could be incorporated more  than two 
years ago. And Mr E had said that IPM had been incorporated just over two years before the 
form was dated. 
Mr E is unhappy that Lloyds didnt explain this to him. And I dont disagree with him in this 
respect. I do think  Lloyds could have possibly made it clearer  to IPM how to find out what the 
issues were.  I accept  that Lloyds cant give advice in how to complete the form. But I think it 
could have given  more information  about  why it didnt think the form was completed  
correctly. In the letter it sent IPM it does say that Mr E could  contact IPMs usual commercial  
banking contact. But I dont think this was clearly highlighted.
However, Lloyds did explain in the letter it sent IPM in April 2019 where the issue was with 
the form. And it correctly  advised Mr E to seek advice  from an expert, such as an 
accountant. It also advised Mr E that it couldnt  give advice to him. And, following this, I do 
think Mr E could  have taken steps  to resolve this matter  himself.
But, even  if I think Lloyds  could have made  this clear, I can only take into account  the impact  
this has had on IPM as a company. Mr E has made a number of submissions about the 
impact this has had on him. But Mr E isnt a customer of Lloyds in respect of this bank 
account  IPM is. And our rules set out that this service can only consider complaints from a 
customer or potential customer of a bank.  So Mr E isnt an eligible  consumer  under  our 
rules. So this means that I cant take into account  the impact  this has had on him  only the 
impact on IPM.
While I dont dispute this has been  distressing for Mr E, IPM is a limited company and is a 
separate entity to Mr E. And I havent  seen  anything to show that Lloyds failure to advise 
IPM how to understand  what  was wrong  with the form has impacted on IPM. Ive taken Mr 
Es other comments into account  such as his friend  wasnt required to fill out the form  but 
Im still satisfied that Lloyds was required  to ask IPM to complete the form. And I havent  
seen anything to show that IPM has lost out as a result  of anything Lloyds may have done  
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E  on behalf of 
IPM  to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4386429