K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained that London  General Insurance Company Limited (LGICL) unfairly 
turned down her claim on her parts and labour insurance policy.
Ms A has been helped  in bringing this complaint, by her mother. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all actions and comments as being those  of Ms A.
Reference to LGICL includes  its agents.  
background
Ms A called  LGICL  after the garage diagnosed  a fault with her car. She thought LGICL  would 
accept the claim and so the garage called  LGICL  to discuss  it. The garage said Ms As car 
was leaking oil and needed  repairs  to the crankshaft seal,  thermostat housing  and breather 
hose. LGICL said these parts werent  covered under the silver policy.  It said the policy  
covered named parts and the crankshaft seal and thermostat housing werent listed as being 
covered, while  the breather hose was specifically excluded.
Ms A didnt think this was right.  She said the crankshaft seal was part of the crankshaft, 
which was a covered  part. She said it was the metal part of the seal that had cracked and 
not the rubber  which would have been  specifically  excluded.  She thought LGICL should 
pay for repairs and complained.
Ms A wasnt happy with LGICLs  representative  that called her back, as she thought hed 
made inappropriate comments. Ms A cancelled the warranty and complained. She said the 
garage had told her of other customers whod had the same repairs  covered under their 
warranties.
LGICL said its representative shouldnt have expressed a personal opinion  about the policy  
and apologised. However, it maintained the parts werent covered and hadnt  seen  evidence  
from her to show  other customers,  with the same policy, had done.
Ms A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. She said shed  been  led to believe 
her claim would be covered when  she initially  called and was upset to then have to pay for 
the repairs. She said she was shocked  at the way LGICLs representative  spoke about  the 
policy.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Ms As complaint be upheld because  she didnt think  
the parts were  covered  by the policy. She didnt think  LGICLs representative had been rude, 
and thought it was enough  that LGICL had apologised for him expressing  a personal 
opinion.
Ms A disagreed. She maintained that LGICLs representative had made inappropriate  
remarks. And said there  was another call between her and LGICL  - on the morning shed 
reported the claim - where LGICL told her the oil leak would be covered. Ms A thought 
LGICL should pay a token  gesture towards  her claim as compensation. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
LGICL said it searched for this call but wasnt able to find any record  of it. It also said Ms A 
hadnt mentioned  this call when she phoned  a few days later.  
Ref: DRN49183732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms As policy covers  her for the cost or repair or replacement of specified parts. Which 
means in order to be covered the part has to be listed  as being covered on the policy. The 
policy then goes on to name parts that are specifically excluded  from cover.
Ive looked at the policy and the thermostat housing  isnt listed as a covered part. So, Im 
satisfied thats  not covered and it was reasonable for LGICL to turn down  that part of the 
claim. 
I can understand why Ms A feels that the crankshaft seal is part of the crankshaft. However, 
in this particular  case I dont agree. I understand the seal is something  that sits outside  of the 
crankshaft and can be replaced separately. In fact, the garage confirmed it only replaced the 
seal and not the whole  crankshaft. So, I dont think the seal is part of the crankshaft. 
LGICL said its gold policy  covers the crankshaft seal. Ive checked this and the gold policy  
does cover seals. So, I think this supports LGICLs view that its a separate  part. And this 
level of cover would have been  available  to buy if Ms A had chosen  it. I accept the 
crankshaft seal isnt specifically excluded but it equally isnt listed as being  covered. And the 
policy says only the parts listed are covered. On that basis Im satisfied the crankshaft seal 
isnt covered and LGICL was reasonable in turning down the claim. 
The breather  hose  is made of rubber  and the policy lists rubber hoses as being specifically 
excluded from cover. So, I think LGICL  was fair to also turn down this part of the claim. 
Ms A said she was led to believe  the claim would be covered  when  she called to report it. 
Ive listened to the call LGICL  provided and in this call I didnt hear LGICL say the claim 
would definitely  be covered. It said the garage would need to call to discuss  what  needed 
doing. I do think it would have been  helpful  for LGICL to say it needed to check the claim 
was covered once  it knew what needed repairing. But I dont think  Ms As lost out here 
because she knew the claim wasnt covered  before  the garage carried  out the repairs. Also, 
she would  still have  needed to have the car repaired in order  to drive it. 
I understand Ms A recalls  making another call earlier that morning to specifically ask if oil 
leaks are covered. LGICL has been  unable to find this call and Ms As been unable  to get a 
copy of her phone  bill from her phone provider. I cant see any call notes relating to another  
call on LGICLs  records. Also,  when LGICLs representative called her back  she asked if 
hed listened to the original call and he says hes listened to the call with a representative Ill 
refer to as G. They  then go on to discuss this call and Ms A didnt at any point  say there was 
another call with LGICL. During this call Ms A also said her issue was that G didnt say the 
claim might not be covered. She didnt  say that shed been told the oil leak would definitely  
be covered, or that there was a different call. 
I appreciate Ms A recalls having made  a separate  call, but I think its most likely  shes 
remembered incorrectly. And even  if I accepted  LGICL had said oil leaks were definitely 
covered, I dont think it makes a difference here.  Because while  I agree it would have been 
frustrating to find out the claim wasnt covered,  I dont think thats caused Ms A a loss for the 
same reasons Ive set out above. 
Ref: DRN49183733I understand local garages  told Ms A about  other customers  whove had their claims paid for 
the same  repair. However,  I havent  seen anything other than Ms As comments  to show 
this, or to suggest  that shes been  treated unfairly  or differently by LGICL. 
Ive listened to the call between Ms A and LGICLs representative. While  he does provide his 
personal opinion,  I do think  he was trying to be helpful and empathise.  I appreciate Ms A 
said she was shocked that hed expressed  a personal opinion  however, during the call she 
said she very much appreciated what he was saying and wasnt  cross with him. Not every 
error a business makes  warrants  compensation and in this case Im satisfied LGICLs 
apology is sufficient. I can understand why Ms A was unhappy about  the warranty,  based on 
this conversation, and understand shes already cancelled it. She can complain separately 
about the sale of the policy if she wants to. 
I dont wish to downplay  Ms As strength of feeling  about whats  happened  and I can 
understand why shes unhappy with the level of cover her warranty  provides. But Im not 
going to ask LGICL to do anything else as Im satisfied  its acted  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, when turning down her claim. Its also apologised to her for its 
representative giving a personal  opinion  which I think is sufficient here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4918373