K821x#15complaint
Mr G complained that Advantage Insurance Company  Limiteds decision to cancel  his car 
insurance policy as if it never  existed  was unfair.  A representative of Mr G has brought  his 
complaint to us on his behalf. 
background
In March 2017 Mr G bought a car insurance policy with the underwriter Advantage.  In July 
2017 the named driver under the policy was involved in an incident and made a claim.
Advantage rejected the claim because it said Mr G hadnt told it about a speeding  conviction  
the named driver had received in 2016.  It said if it had known about the conviction, it 
wouldnt have provided insurance cover. So Advantage  cancelled  Mr Gs policy  as if it didnt 
exist (also known as voidance) and it didnt refund the rest of the yearly premium  Mr G had 
paid for the policy. It said it had provided some poor service as it failed to call Mr G back  
when requested. So for this it paid him £100 compensation. 
Mr G said it was an honest  mistake   hed taken  the details from the information he had 
stored the year before.  He asked us to look at his complaint. Mr G wanted Advantage to 
remove the voidance,  reinstate  his policy and deal with the claim. His representative said it 
had carried out multiple quotes and found  that Advantage was able to provide insurance 
cover with the correct  information. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Advantage to reject the claim. It had provided 
its underwriting criteria to us to show that had it known the named  drivers full history, it 
wouldnt have provided cover for him. So the investigator thought it was for either  Mr G or 
the named driver to meet  the costs of any third party claim. 
But he didnt  think it was reasonable for Advantage to record the voidance against Mr G. He 
thought Mr G had made a careless misrepresentation. And as Mr G has no previous 
motoring claims  or convictions,  he thought a fairer  outcome was for Advantage to remove 
the voidance record from any internal  and external database. And he thought it should 
refund the balance  of the yearly premium to Mr G from the date it cancelled the policy. This 
was in addition  to the £100 compensation Advantage  had paid for its poor service. 
Mr G accepted the investigators view. Advantage didnt agree.  In summary it says:
The onus  was on Mr G to make  sure the information he provided  for him and the 
named driver was accurate. 
Weve made the assumption that Mr Gs misrepresentation  was an oversight. 
There isnt anything  to show  Advantage agrees with this assumption. 
It believes the voidance has been correctly carried out and should  stand. So 
Advantage doesnt believe  it should  provide any refund to Mr G. 
As Advantage didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it in 
part. 
Ref: DRN45152112I agree  with the investigators recommendations to put things right. Ill explain why. 
I think Mr Gs explanation  as to why he failed to disclose the named drivers speeding 
conviction is a reasonable one. So I think its fair to conclude  that the misrepresentation 
wasnt deliberate.  Advantage hasnt provided anything  to show that it was. 
Mr Gs representative has told us that Mr G has since repaired his car and sold it.
We look at the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 for 
guidance in cases  of misrepresentation. Advantage has also referred to this Act in its policy 
documents to Mr G. 
As the misrepresentation in this case was careless by Mr G  and because  he had no claims 
or convictions that would  have affected his ability to obtain car insurance with Advantage  I 
agree that a fairer outcome is for the voidance to be removed against him. And I also think 
its fair that Advantage refund Mr G for the balance of the yearly premium  since  the date of 
the incident as this is when it cancelled his policy. 
But I dont think its for Advantage to meet the claim.  I think  the responsibility of the costs  of 
the claim ultimately fall to either Mr G or the named driver. Advantage has provided  
underwriting evidence to show  that had it known  of the named drivers  speeding  conviction   
in addition to a previous claim in 2015  it wouldnt have  provided insurance. So I think  
Advantages decision to reject  the claim was fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to remove any record of the voidance  
against Mr G and refund the balance of the yearly premium he paid for car insurance from 
the date of the incident. 
I think Advantage should pay interest on the refund  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  from the 
date of the decision to cancel Mr Gs policy to the date it pays  the refund. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr G accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN45152113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4515211