K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  they were unable to trade on their share  dealing  account with 
Barclays Bank Plc. And they say they suffered both inconvenience and financial loss as a 
result.
background 
Mr and Mrs K had a joint share  dealing  account  with Barclays. In late August 2017,  Barclays 
moved its customers share dealing accounts  onto a new computer platform  called         
Smart Investor. When this happened, Barclays incorrectly merged  Mrs K, and                     
Mr and Mrs Ks son, as the joint account holders and not Mr and Mrs K. This meant Mr K 
could not access  his account and make trades himself. 
Mr K called Barclays on a number of occasions  to try and get access to his account and to 
find out what was happening. He wanted to know why his son had been added  and when he 
would be able to trade on his account.  Barclays were unable  to explain what  had happened 
but told Mr K they would try and give him access to his account  as soon as possible. Mr K 
continued to call over the next two weeks. He was getting increasingly frustrated and worried 
that he couldnt trade. Barclays  were still unable to give Mr K access to his account  but it told 
him that Mrs K was able to trade. And if Mrs K gave verbal authorisation to it Mr K would be 
able to trade by phone. Mr K told Barclays he didnt  want to do that and wanted to get 
access as soon as possible. Mr K continued to call Barclays to chase progress and was 
finally able to access the account  in late September 2017.
Mr and Mrs K complained to this service. They said theyd been put to considerable 
inconvenience by Barclays mistake and theyd lost money because  they were unable to 
trade on their account. Our investigator upheld their complaint. She thought  Barclays should 
pay £400 for the trouble  and upset caused. And she said Barclays should pay for any losses  
Mr and Mrs K might  have suffered because they couldnt make four specific trades.
Barclays said it accepted  the experience had been poor and agreed to pay £400 for this. But 
it didnt agree to pay for the losses relating to the four trades. It said Mrs K had access to the 
account so the trades could have been made.  And as the trades  hadnt  actually  taken place 
it said any losses were perceived and not actual and was not willing  to pay these. Mr K didnt 
accept and so the complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2018.  My findings  were:
Mr K says he was unable to trade on his account  following the changes  made by Barclays in 
late August 2017.  Ive listened to the calls and looked at the evidence available  and its clear 
that Mr K was, indeed,  unable to access the account  for a period of approximately  one 
month. Mr K says he lost money because he was unable to trade.  He also made it clear to 
Barclays that although it was a joint account  Mrs K did not actively  use it to trade. So I can 
understand his frustration  when he was unable to access the account and undertake his 
normal trading activity.
But Im mindful here that the account  is in joint names. Mr K was unable  to use it but, from 
the evidence Ive seen, Mrs K was. It follows that trading was able to continue on the 
account uninterrupted and so I cant reasonably  say that, as a result of Barclays mistake,  Mr 
and Mrs K were unable to trade. And because of this I cant reasonably  say they lost money, 
perceived or otherwise, on trading through the period.
Ref: DRN43817342Ive looked carefully  at the service Mr and Mrs K received and I think  it was poor. They  had 
held the account for many  years  and were entitled to expect  the changes  Barclays  made to 
the account to happen  without any disruption. And if mistakes did happen they would be 
rectified quickly. 
Ive listened to a number  of calls between  Barclays and Mr K and dont think  he was given  
clear information, at all times,  about  what was happening to rectify the mistake and how long 
it was likely to take.  Mr K had to repeat his concerns to various  staff members and make 
repeat phone calls.  There  was clearly a lack of ownership or understanding  of the problem 
by Barclays and Mr K understandably became increasingly frustrated. It ultimately took 
nearly a month to give Mr K access. In that time he had to make  a large number of calls to 
Barclays, was unclear how long the problem was going to last and wasnt  able to manage 
his trading in his usual way. I think this represents  considerable distress and inconvenience 
and I think Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs K £400  because of this.
developments
In their response to my provisional  decision,  Mr and Mrs K didnt agree that Mrs K could 
access the account and said that at no time were they told she could. They  said theyd been 
told on a number of occasions by Barclays that it was not possible to access the account.  
And they said that theyd lost the opportunity  to make a number of trades  as a result of this 
which meant they incurred financial losses.
Barclays accepted  my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K had to make a number  of calls over several weeks  to try and get Mr K access  
to the account.  Having  listened to these calls I think there was a lack of ownership of          
Mr and Mrs Ks concerns which is likely to have caused a delay in resolving the core issue of 
Mr Ks access. Mr and Mrs K were  also given differing accounts of what was happening  to 
resolve the issue which will have  caused  them some confusion  and frustration.  So I can 
understand why they might feel they were never told that Mrs K could access  the account 
and trades  could take place.
But Ive listened  carefully to the calls and, on 11 September 2017,  Mr K was clearly told that 
if Mrs K gave  verbal authorisation to Barclays  Mr K would be allowed  to make trades on the 
account. In the conversation Mr K asked if it would be acceptable for Mrs K to email  the 
authorisation but Barclays explained the need for Mrs K to answer previously agreed 
security questions which would need  to be done  verbally. This was accepted  by Mr K.
Mr and Mrs K say that they cant remember the details of the call on 11th September. And 
they say that they were told on later calls that the account didnt exist. I agree that              
Mr and Mrs K received confusing and contradictory messages from Barclays. But Im also 
mindful that Barclays have stated  that Mrs K did have access throughout the period. And, 
further, that Ive not seen any evidence that Mrs K tried to access the account during the 
period. So based upon this, I dont think I can reasonably say that Mrs K didnt have access.  
Ref: DRN43817343And so I cant reasonably  say that it wasnt possible to make  trades  on the account  or, 
therefore, Mr and Mrs K suffered any trading losses as a result  of Barclays mistake.
But I do think the overall service was poor and that Mr and Mrs K suffered material distress 
and inconvenience  as a result of Barclays mistake. I think  Barclays  should pay                   
Mr and Mrs K compensation  for this and I think a reasonable  amount is £400.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above I uphold this complaint  and require Barclays  Bank plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs K £400 for the material distress and inconvenience they experienced 
following the migration  of their joint account to a new computer platform.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Ben Castell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4381734