K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection
insurance (PPI) policies.  The policies were sold to them  by Portman  Building  Society  which 
merged with Nationwide in 2007.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out PPI in 1995  when they applied  for their mortgage, and they took out a 
second policy in 1997 when they applied for a further advance.  Nationwide cant confirm  
where the sales took place. The policies protected them against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that the PPI was optional  and they had to
agree to take it out. I cant know what was discussed and Mr and Mrs D havent been  able to 
give much  detail about either sale. Ive seen copy of the letter Nationwide  sent Mr and Mrs D 
after theyd completed  their mortgage  application form in 1995.  This said it included  a leaflet 
about PPI. It asked them to give it serious  consideration  and to complete and return the 
enclosed application  form. It then said if they didnt  wish to take out PPI they should  return 
the completed disclaimer. As PPI was set up on their account I think its most likely they 
completed and returned  the PPI application  form. 
Nationwide cant provide any paperwork from the 1997 sale but thats not unreasonable 
given how long ago it was. It says Mr and Mrs D would have been given a leaflet explaining 
the policy before they made  their decision.
So, I think Nationwide made it clear the PPI was optional in 1995 and its most likely Mr and 
Mrs D agreed  to take it. And without stronger evidence to the contrary, I cant  fairly conclude  
Nationwide didnt make  it clear the PPI was optional in 1997,  or that Mr and Mrs D didnt  
agree to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policies to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check the 
policies were right for them. Rather, it had to give them  enough information so they could 
decide for themselves whether they wanted  to buy PPI.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as
it should have  been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policies if they
had received better information. I say this because:
Ref: DRN48979712Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the policies given their circumstances  at the time and 
the policies terms and conditions.
They werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  it 
unlikely they needed  better information  about  the exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs D were both entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half pay if 
they were sick, but the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to their work benefits and 
for up to 12 months. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy  cover.  They had 
limited savings of around £200. The PPI would have allowed them  to use these to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working,  or to keep them intact  for any future 
needs. They  also said family would have helped but thats not suitable  alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. Mr and 
Mrs D were borrowing large  sums  of money over a long time, secured against their 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing  mortgage repayments I think the 
PPI would have  been useful if they were sick or lost their job(s).
I dont know when  the costs were  first made clear  but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. So I think its unlikely they wouldve  made  a 
different decision if better  information about  the costs had been  provided.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs D have lost out because of any problems with these  sales.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4897971