K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains TSB Bank plc wont provide her with the ability  to email it when she has 
problems that need sorting  out. 
background
Mrs E has a stress-related  disability.  This affects  her ability  to discuss  her banking affairs 
on the telephone. She said long phone calls trying to sort out issues  make  her feel 
trapped, stressed and she starts to stutter. She also said visiting  the branch was difficult 
and stressful. She recently had queries  related to some  payments on her account  and 
became frustrated with the lack of email  contact. So she complained to TSB. 
Mrs E said she doesnt understand why TSB doesnt have an online system  whereby  the 
customer can contact them to ask for assistance  with simple queries, as most other 
banks do. She said even  an email address for customers, especially customers  like her 
who have a disability,  would be acceptable. She said the only way to contact TSB was 
by phone, to visit a branch or to make  a complaint. She added that TSB has the ability to 
send her emails but this is only one-way.  
The investigator said TSB has confirmed it is unable to offer the email service  Mrs E has 
requested due to security  concerns.  But that it does provide  an option to use a text relay 
service. 
Mrs E asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She said a text relay service 
wouldnt help as she doesnt have a hearing  problem but a stress-related problem. She 
maintained she needs  an email  address  which she can use to contact TSB, or an online  
message system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs E but having  done  so I wont be asking TSB to do anything 
further. 
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs E is having difficulties contacting  TSB and I can see this 
would cause frustration.  I can understand why she would like the service shes  asked 
for, such as two-way email  dialogue,  or online  text service. Equally  I appreciate  TSBs 
point that it has security concerns around this method of communication.
Mrs E has specifically  asked for an email  facility that allows her to sent emails  as well as 
receive them for general queries, not necessarily related  to her specific account. She 
said TSB has said the inbox in her online account  is secure. She believes that a send 
facility would solve communication issues  for many people.  And that other banks have 
this facility or an online chat function.  She believes it is complete madness that 
customers are not able to send a message from their online  accounts. 
My role here is to look at the circumstances  of Mrs Es complaint. I am not able to look at 
TSBs processes for customers in general.  Thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Ref: DRN44400012Authority. So Im afraid I cant answer her question about why TSB doesnt have this 
service for customers. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to this service  because she had had trouble  with some 
payments and wanted to ask questions relating to them.  She became frustrated that she 
couldnt use email  to do this because this would be a better way for her to be able to 
communicate because  she says she has a disability. In such  a case its useful to 
consider if Mrs E can rely on the rights  she has under the Equality Act 2010  concerning  
reasonable adjustments. 
Its not my role to make a formal judgment  on whether or not TSB acted in breach  of the 
Equality Act. Thats the role of the courts or the Equality and Human Rights  Commission. 
But in considering what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome I have to take account of 
the relevant laws, rules and industry practice. The Equality  Act is relevant law.
Mrs E asked for a designated email  from someone in her local branch, if possible,  to 
direct general queries  to, not including confidential information. She said the only way to 
email TSB at the moment  is to use the complaints  email address. TSB has offered the 
text relay service. This service is generally offered to customers  who are hearing 
impaired or who have speech difficulties.  Mrs Es particular difficulty is in telephone 
communication and face to face contact. From her description she has no difficulty in 
talking or hearing  but more in the anxiety of such contact. So I can see why the text relay  
service may not be able to help -but it is an option open  to Mrs E. And TSB did explain to 
Mrs E that the type of communication she wanted  would not be secure.  I am not in a 
position to comment  on whether  such  communication is secure  but Ive no reason to 
doubt TSB.  I asked  both parties if any evidence of Mrs Es disability had been sent to 
TSB. Mrs E said none had been sent.  Im satisfied that in the absence  of evidence of 
Mrs Es disability  TSB did try help Mrs E and I consider its response in offering  text relay 
and by explaining email may not be secure  to be reasonable  under those circumstances. 
So I dont  believe Mrs E has been discriminated against. 
Mrs E did sent some  professional documents about  her condition to this service  as well 
as further commentary  about how it affects  her daily life. It may be helpful for Mrs E to 
now present this evidence, and any further  documents she may have in support, to TSB.  
It would then be up to TSB to re-evaluate its position  whether it would be appropriate 
and feasible to make any reasonable  adjustments with respect to Mrs Es 
communication needs in order to reduce or remove her disadvantage.  
Im satisfied that TSB,  based on the evidence available at the time, hasnt done anything  
wrong so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN44400013my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4440001