K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that TSB Bank  Plc has decided not to refund her, after she lost £8,000 to 
a safe account  scam. She says the transaction was out of character for her and TSB ought 
to have stopped it from leaving her account  in the first place. Shes also unhappy  with the 
way TSB handled her complaint when  she reported  it.
background
Mrs Ms version of events
On 16 March 2018 Mrs M said she received a call from someone saying they were  from an
internet service provider,  asking for her debit card details to process a refund. Mrs M was
reluctant to provide the three-digit number on the back of her card so terminated the call.
Around 20 minutes later she says she received  a call on her landline  from someone
purporting to be from TSB. The caller identified themselves as being from TSB fraud
services and they told her there had been  an attempt by someone  to remove £2,000  from
her account.  She says to prove they were from TSB they called her back  on her mobile and
the number they called from matched the number on the back  of her card. This suggests the
caller was able to spoof TSBs number.
The caller  told her, that because of the fraudulent  attempts on her account they wanted to
stop her account  and told her she needed to move  all her money to a safe  account as a
precaution. The caller gave Mrs M the sort code and account  details for the safe account.
Mrs M says because  the call looked  like it was from TSBs genuine number, and because of
the unusual call shed  received earlier from the internet provider, this convinced her she was
speaking to her bank.
Mrs M says she followed the callers instructions and used her tablet device  to make the
payments as instructed. Mrs M made a payment of £8,000 to a new payee,  with the
information she had been provided with. She said the caller  told her she would receive some
sort of communication from TSB that she would have to approve, she did this and then
proceeded with the payment. This included receiving an automated call from TSB which
contained a code, this code was needed  to set up a new payee. Mrs M entered the code into
her online banking screen which verified  the new payee and authorised the payment.  The
automated call was as follows:
This is an automated  call from TSB to confirm you are setting up a new online
payment. You're currently setting up a new online payment to the account ending  
XXXX for the amount  of [x pounds] [and] [x pence]. Using  the keys on your phone  
please enter or say the four- digit code displayed on your internet banking  screen  
now. If you're not expecting this call, or the account  details are incorrect please press  
or say star now.
* customer  enters code*
Thank you, the four-digit code has been  accepted,  you can now hang up and follow  
the instructions  on your internet  banking screen. Goodbye.
Ref: DRN42561752She was then asked  what balanced remained in her account and was told to make  a second
payment of £1,500.
Mrs M attempted  to make the second  payment of £1,500 but this was blocked by TSB. She
explained to the caller  that the payment  hadnt been  successful and the caller said they
remembered the limit was £8,000 a day but had forgotten  that when he originally asked  her
to send it. She was also told to expect a new bank card shortly and the call ended.
Mrs M says she called TSB later that day to get more information  and an update about her
account. She says thats when TSB told her she had been  the victim of a scam.
Mrs M says she was told someone from TSBs fraud  team would be in touch within  three
days but she says this didnt happen. So she says she had to ask her daughter to take her to
the branch a few days later to find out what was happening. Mrs M says she is a widow
without any income or money, so she needed  to know  what  was going  on.
Mrs M says that when she was in branch  the manager called the fraud team on her behalf
and she found  out only £12 had been recovered from the £8,000 she had lost as part of this
scam. She says she left the bank  worried  sick and felt dismissed  by TSB. Mrs M has
described the experience as going through a terrible nightmare. She complained  to TSB and
while it offered her a small amount of compensation (that Mrs M says shes never  received),
it didnt think it should refund  the money shed lost.
Mrs M believes banks should do more to warn  its customers  about these types of scams.
And Mrs M believes  TSB should have prevented the payment leaving her account  as it was
out of character compared  to her normal account  activity.
TSBs response
TSB issued  its final response to Mrs M on 9 April 2018. It said Our website provides a 
number of warnings  to all customers about  social engineering scams. The warnings advise 
customers of the precautionary  steps to take prior to setting up any new payments, 
particularly where  they have  received  a call asking for a payment to be created. We also 
make it very clear  that TSB would never  ask you to transfer funds to a safe account.
TSB went on to say Mrs M ignored  these warnings and did not verify  who she was speaking
to when the caller  said they were from the bank. It says she failed to question why someone
from the TSB fraud  department, would request for her to send money to another account.
TSB said the payment of £8,000 was made using Mrs Ms registered device and was
authorised with the correct security information.  It also says Mrs M would have received an
automated call to confirm she was setting  up a new payee which  she confirmed. Because
Mrs M went  through these  security  steps  it would  have had no reason to prevent the
payment from leaving her account.
TSB says it did have reason to suspect the second  payment  because  it questioned why a
customer would make two payments in such a short period of time to a new beneficiary.
TSBs notes  say the second payment was referred  for additional security and it never  left
Mrs Ms account.
TSB said it contacted the receiving bank and only £12.62 remained. It said this would be
returned to Mrs M. It also apologised for not sending a letter explaining the outcome of the
fraud investigation and offered £25 as a tangible gesture  of our apologies.
Ref: DRN42561753Overall TSB said it didnt make  any error in allowing the payment of £8,000  to leave  Mrs Ms
account.
Whats happened  since our involvement?
One of our investigators  looked into things. She said that whilst Mrs M authorised  the
payment she thought  a transfer  of £8,000  to a new payee was significantly out of character.
So much so that TSB ought to have  been concerned that Mrs M might be at risk of being
scammed and ought to have taken steps  to intervene,  and check everything was as it should
be. She concluded  that if TSB had intervened with this payment it would have quickly
exposed the scam and prevented Mrs Ms losses.
The investigator recommended  a refund of the £8,000, plus 8% simple  interest  and for TSB
to pay the £25 compensation it had already promised.
TSB disagreed with our investigators  findings. It said its position  hadnt changed and its
systems didnt flag the first transaction because all other security had been passed  including;
the device and IP address. It said the new beneficiary was authorised by the account holder
and if all new beneficiaries were flagged and prevented  the impact on TSB customers  would
be completely unmanageable and disproportionate.
TSB asked  for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2020  explaining why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint.  
In that decision  I acknowledge that when  considering whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account relevant:  law and regulations;  
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time. I remain of the
view that these considerations are the relevant ones. Ive set them out below.
relevant considerations
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
regulated firms  like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
Ref: DRN42561754And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances); and
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the
average customer.
my provisional decision
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision,  I made the following
findings:
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with
Mrs M when  she authorised a payment of £8,000  from her account, or whether it should
have done more than it did.
Did TSB act fairly  and reasonably in Mrs Ms case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice TSB should have been on
the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions. Im satisfied  the request Mrs M
made - to transfer £8,000  out of her current account,  to an account  shed  not previously
transferred money  to before  was out of character and unusual  for her.
I say this because:
Having reviewed the internet banking logs provided by TSB Mrs M had not set up
any new payees on her account in the 12 months  prior to the scam.
Mrs M generally  used the account  for day-to-day spending, including: direct  debits,  
low value debit card payments and low value cash withdrawals
The scam payment  is much larger, in fact forty times larger,  than the next highest 
payment out of the account in the 12 months  preceding the scam which was a £200  
cash withdrawal. Most  payments are in fact around £100 or less.
Mrs M generally  runs a high and healthy  balance on her account of around  £9,000  - 
£13,000. This payment, whilst it didnt clear her account, takes her balance 
significantly lower than it had been  in the 12 months prior to this payment and left her 
with an account  balance of £1,643.69.
Ref: DRN42561755Given Im persuaded  this payment  was unusual and out of character,  I think  TSB ought fairly
and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have done more  and made  enquiries
about the purpose of the payment before it processed it.
TSB doesnt agree. Its said that its systems  didnt flag the first transaction because  all other
security checks  had been passed  by Mrs M. Its also said that if all payments to new payees
were flagged and prevented  then it is sure the impact on its customers  would  be completely
unmanageable and disproportionate - though TSB hasnt  provided any evidence  to support
its assertion.
There is no doubt here that Mrs M authorised  the transaction herself or that she passed
TSBs security checks. But as I have explained, processing a payment after a customer
authorises it isnt the end of the story.
I accept TSB isnt expected to prevent every single  fraudulent transaction  made.  But TSB
does have measures  in place (as do all other banks) to attempt  to detect and prevent fraud
and scams  - so clearly it does take steps to protect its customers from financial  harm;
including APP scams.  And it did prevent the second  attempted payment from Mrs Ms
account.
Nevertheless, I accept there  is a balance to be struck between identifying payments  that
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate  payments. And how
TSB chooses to configure its fraud detection  systems is for it to decide. But the point  I need
to consider here is: based on all the circumstances  of this complaint,  whether TSB ought
fairly and reasonably to have done more in Mrs Ms case  whether its fraud prevention
systems detected the payment or not. And taking all of the above  into account, I think  TSB
should reasonably have  taken additional  steps before processing the payment.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have identified
that Mrs M was potentially at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that as a matter  of good
practice, TSB should  fairly  and reasonably  have  made additional checks, and made
enquiries as to the purpose of the payment before processing it.
I believe TSB ought to have contacted  Mrs M to question  her about the payment at the time.
Had it done so I believe the scam would have been revealed and prevented. Ill explain why.
Im persuaded that had TSB contacted Mrs M about the payment the scam  would likely have
been exposed  quickly and the payment prevented. This is because Mrs M hadnt been
coached by the scammer to give a cover story around the purpose  of the payment.
Mrs M was convinced  she was talking to the bank when she was in fact talking  to the
scammer. So I think its more likely  than not that if TSB has asked Mrs M what  the payment
was for, she would have  told them that she was moving the money into a safe account
because her account had been affected  by fraudulent  activity.  At which  point Im satisfied
TSB would have quickly identified that this was a scam given how common these types  of
scam sadly are  as I understand  it did when she called  them  up later that day and explained
what had happened.
Finally, TSB has argued Mrs M didnt take steps to verify she was talking to TSB. As TSB is
well aware  these scams involve cruel  and sophisticated levels  of social  engineering and can
often take place over long calls where  they incite fear and the need to act quickly.
Ref: DRN42561756TSBs notes  from the time Mrs M reported  the scam are not particularly detailed. And Mrs M
hasnt been able to recall  every single detail about the conversation,  which is
understandable given  how long ago and how traumatic an experience  this must  have been
for her. Mrs M has said the number used  to call her mobile phone  appeared to be TSBs
genuine telephone number  I have no reason to disbelieve her about this. This is known as
spoofing and I think this is an extremely disarming aspect of social engineering which
convinces the victim they are dealing with someone genuine.
Im satisfied Mrs M was under the spell of a scammer. In my view Mrs M was carefully
manipulated into thinking her money was at risk. And I dont think Mrs Ms actions, while  she
was under the spell of a scam, means  that TSB shouldnt  have done more to protect  her, or
that she shouldnt  now be compensated.
TSB has also said that its website provides warnings about  social  engineering scams and
advises customers of the precautionary  steps they should take. It says these warnings make
it clear TSB would never  ask a customer to transfer  funds to a safe account.
It says Mrs M wouldve  seen these warnings and its provided  links to them. Ive seen no
evidence to suggest Mrs M saw any of these warnings, and Mrs M has said there was
nothing on TSBs website about  the type of scam  she was affected by.
If there were warnings in place at the time,  and for the avoidance of doubt  Im not persuaded
there were, its clear  they had no impact on Mrs M and this scam (Mrs M doesnt  recall them
and she still fell victim to the scam). And I remain persuaded TSB ought fairly and
reasonably to have  contacted Mrs M and made enquiries about the purpose of the payment
before it processed  it.
Impact on Mrs M
Ive come to a slightly different recommendation to the one made by the investigator.  Ill
explain why.
Mrs M contacted TSB the same day she was scammed and explained on several occasions
the impact this was having on her. She said she was promised an update  within three days
which she didnt receive. Losing such a large  amount of money to a cruel  and disarming
scam and then not being contacted or updated  by your own bank, in those first initial  days  
caused Mrs M additional distress. And as Mrs M hadnt received the update  she says was
promised, she had to go to the branch to find out what  was happened.
TSB has admitted it also didnt provide  her with any written response initially and Mrs M also
had to chase this up.
The scam itself has also had a significant  impact on Mrs M. And while  much of that impact
can be attributed to the actions of the scammer,  Im persuaded that TSBs failure to act, and
prevent financial  harm, had a big impact  on Mrs M. Mrs M has explained that she had to go
back to work  as she didnt  have  enough  money to live on, and shes  said she was ill
following many  sleepless nights; feeling  unable to eat or concentrate.
Given all of this I think TSB should  pay £300 (inclusive of the £25 already offered) in
compensation to Mrs M for the trouble  and upset it caused.
Ref: DRN42561757The investigator also recommended 8% simple interest as part of the award but I can see
that Mrs M maintained a high balance on her current account. And as far as Im aware she
didnt have plans  for these particular funds and they werent set aside for a specific  purpose
which she now hasnt been  able to use the funds for. As such  I think  it would be fair to treat
these funds as if they were in a savings account and the interest  award should be the
account interest rate, calculated from the date the payment  left her account to the date it is
refunded.
responses to my provisional  decision 
Both parties  agreed with the findings and recommendations set out in my provisional 
decision. As such I see no reason to depart from those findings
my finding
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with the findings  and recommendations  set out in my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from those  findings. I remain of the view that this decision 
should be upheld  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which I have  reproduced 
above, and which now forms part of this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mrs M complaint  against  TSB Bank Plc.
I require TSB to:
refund  the payment of £8,000;
 pay account  interest rate from the date the money was transferred out of the account 
to the date the settlement is paid;  and
pay £300 (inclusive of the £25 already offered) for the material distress and 
inconvenience Mrs M experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256175