K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way that Black Horse Limited has dealt with his voluntary 
termination of a hire purchase agreement under which a car was supplied to him.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr H under  a hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse that was 
dated September 2016. He returned  the car and voluntarily terminated  the agreement  in 
March 2019. He complained to Black Horse  the following  month that the agreement was still 
showing on his credit file. It agreed to change the settlement  date to the date that he paid the 
settlement amount and to pay him £200  compensation for the poor service that hed 
received. He then complained to this service because he said that his mortgage application 
had been adversely affected.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
Black Horse  had made any error and he thought that it had dealt  with Mr Hs complaint  fairly.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he didnt 
receive the voluntary termination documents from Black  Horse so sent it a letter to 
voluntarily terminate his agreement in March 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H contacted Black Horse about voluntarily terminating his agreement and settlement 
quotes were provided  to him. Black  Horses contact notes show that it was in regular contact 
with Mr H in March 2019 about  the voluntary termination of the agreement. The notes show 
that it had sent the voluntary termination  documents to him but he wanted it all sorted out 
before he received his new car - so it said that he could  send  it a letter  to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement and it explained  what the letter needed  to say. Mr H said that he 
would take the car to the third party auction house that would receive  the car on behalf of 
Black Horse.
Mr H sent a letter to Black Horse to voluntarily terminate his agreement,  paid it £1,503.54 to 
settle his agreement and took his car to the auction house in March 2019 - and he 
understood that his agreement would be terminated at that point. But the agreement  was still 
showing on his credit report in April 2019  because Black Horse  said that the account 
wouldnt be closed until it had received the sale proceeds from the auction house.
Mr H complained to Black  Horse and it agreed  to change the settlement date to the date in 
March 2019 that hed paid the settlement amount and it paid him £200 compensation for the 
poor service that hed received. Its provided evidence to show  that the settlement date has 
been changed and has been  correctly reported  to the credit  reference agencies. It also says 
that the account was closed in June 2019  when it received the sale proceeds of the car from 
the auction house.
Mr H then complained  to this service  and says that the information about the voluntary 
termination that Black Horse has recorded  on his credit file caused him to have to pay much 
more on his mortgage. He has described  in detail the effect  that he says these events had 
Ref: DRN48796952on his mortgage  application and the additional  mortgage costs that hes had to pay  and for 
which he says he should receive significantly more compensation  from Black  Horse.
I consider that Black  Horse should  have recorded that Mr H had voluntarily terminated the 
agreement when he returned the car to the auction  house and the auction  house had 
confirmed to Black Horse that it had been returned in an acceptable condition. I dont 
consider that Black  Horse was entitled to delay the termination until it received the proceeds 
of sale from the auction  house.
Black Horse  has accepted  that it provided poor service to Mr H and it paid him £200 for that 
and changed the settlement date on his agreement to the date that Mr H paid it the 
settlement money.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances - but it can 
take some  weeks for information recorded  by a business to be fully updated  on a customers 
credit file with the credit  reference agencies. 
I sympathise with Mr H for the issues that he had with his mortgage  and the additional 
mortgage costs  that hes had to pay. But I consider that Black  Horse has responded to his 
complaint fairly and reasonably. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require it to pay him any further compensation or to take any other  
action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4879695