K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Active Securities Limited (trading  as 247 Moneybox) gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
December 2018.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold a part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 247 Moneybox has 
said that it doesnt have anything further  to add. Miss B hasnt responded to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with any new evidence  in relation to this complaint 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  If 
247 Moneybox had done what I consider to be proportionate checks before the final loan 
I dont think it would  have  agreed to lend to Miss B. So 247 Moneybox  needs to put things 
right.
putting things right
I dont think 247 Moneybox should have  agreed to lend to Miss B on 31 May 2017. But it 
doesnt appear that Miss B has made  any repayments (of either interest or capital) on that 
loan. So there is nothing that I intend  to require 247 Moneybox to refund to Miss B.
But Miss Bs outstanding  balance should  be reduced to remove  all interest and charges that 
have been added to it. It should simply comprise the principal that Miss B borrowed, and 
reflect any payments she might have made as being used to reduce  that principal amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Bs complaint and direct  Active  Securities 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43628332EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss B complains  that Active Securities Limited  (trading as 247 Moneybox)  gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford  to repay.
background
Miss B borrowed  from 247 Moneybox in two distinct chains. She first borrowed three times between 
July and September 2012.  She repaid the first two of those loans as planned,  but didnt repay  her final 
loan. Miss B then borrowed  a further four loans  from 247 Moneybox  between  March  and May 2017.  
She repaid the first three of these loans as planned, but again failed to repay her final loan. 
A summary  of Miss Bs borrowing from 247 Moneybox is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 16/07/2012 31/07/2012 £ 100
2 01/08/2012 28/08/2012 £ 175
3 04/09/2012 - £   80
4 07/03/2017 31/03/2017 £   80
5 31/03/2017 28/04/2017 £ 155
6 28/04/2017 31/05/2017 £ 230
7 31/05/2017 - £ 403
When it assessed Miss Bs complaint, and provided details to this service about the complaint, 
247 Moneybox only looked at the loans given  to Miss B in 2017.  I have gathered details of the earlier 
loans from her credit  file. I will comment further on this in my decision below. 
In relation to the four later loans  247 Moneybox didnt  uphold Miss Bs complaint and noted that 
across all the loans shed repaid less than the total principal shed  borrowed. So it didnt think shed  
be due any redress even if the complaint were upheld. But as a gesture of goodwill 247 Moneybox 
offered to write off the outstanding  balance  on Miss Bs final loan if she agreed not to take her 
complaint any further.
But Miss B did bring her complaint to this service. It has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. 
He thought that 247 Moneybox shouldnt have given the last three loans  to Miss B as proportionate 
checks would have shown  them to be unaffordable. And he thought  that the offer 247 Moneybox had 
made in its response  to Miss Bs complaint was reasonable so that is what  he asked the lender to do.
Disappointingly 247 Moneybox hasnt responded to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Ref: DRN43628333247 Moneybox was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to see whether  Miss B 
could afford  to pay back each loan before  it lent to her. Those checks needed to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount Miss B was borrowing, and her lending  history, but there was no set list of 
checks 247 Moneybox had to do.
I will first consider the lengthy break between the two chains of lending, and that 247 Moneybox has 
only given us information about  the loans in the second chain.  At the outset, I am entirely  satisfied 
that Miss B borrowed both chains of loans. So they should have both been part of 247 Moneyboxs 
consideration of this complaint. But because they werent that would  lead me to conclude that 
247 Moneybox hadnt connected the earlier loans to the new application being made by Miss B.
When Miss B asked for her fourth loan she still had a defaulted balance with 247 Moneybox. From my 
experience it is very unlikely that a lender would  agree to a new loan if it knew the borrower  still owed  
it money from almost five years before. And I can see that when she made the second set of 
applications Miss B had changed her address, and was using a different bank account. So, unless 
she had told 247 Moneybox about the earlier loans,  or applied via her previous account with the 
lender, I think  it reasonable that 247 Moneybox didnt  connect  the two sets of applications. And having 
concluded that I wont  take the 2012 lending into account when assessing  the checks 247 Moneybox 
needed to do in 2017.
247 Moneybox hasnt  told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss B in 2012. But from what  
I know of its processes at the time I think that at the very least it would have asked Miss B for details  
of her normal income. Of course I dont know what shed have told 247 Moneybox in response but 
I think  it unlikely that shed have declared less income  than she was earning and what I can see from 
her bank statements.
Each of the first three loans  that Miss B took was relatively modest compared  to her income at that 
time. These  were the first loans  that she took from 247 Moneybox and she didnt appear to have  any 
problems repaying the first two loans. So I think it would have been reasonable for 247 Moneybox to 
conclude that these loans  were affordable for Miss B. I dont currently think it was wrong to give these  
loans to Miss B.
Miss B defaulted on her final loan,  and her credit  file still shows a balance of £131 that is outstanding. 
But at that point  she appears to have  stopped borrowing from 247 Moneybox for almost five years.
As I said earlier, I think it was reasonable that 247 Moneybox didnt  realise that Miss B had been a 
previous customer  and still owed money on her earlier borrowing when she asked  for a loan in 2017.  
247 Moneybox has told us about the checks it did at that time.  It asked Miss B for details of her 
income, and normal expenditure. And it also checked  Miss Bs credit file before agreeing the loans. 
Although the credit checks did show some evidence of other short term borrowing I dont think this 
would have been sufficient to cause any great additional concerns to the lender.
At this point it would be useful to explain that, generally,  the information  a consumer might see, when  
they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen  by a lender.  A lender might  
only see a small portion  of the credit  file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data 
might not be up to date. So, this might  explain  why the credit  checks  the lender  did failed to identify 
Miss Bs earlier borrowing  from 247 Moneybox.
The first two loans that Miss B took in 2017 were  relatively modest compared  to the income  that she 
declared. And they appeared to be easily affordable  based on what  shed said about her expenditure. 
So, given I think 247 Moneybox was unaware of her earlier borrowing, I think it was reasonable for the 
lender to base  its affordability assessment on the information Miss B provided. I dont currently think  it 
did anything wrong in agreeing these two loans.
Ref: DRN43628334On the same day Miss B repaid the second  loan shed taken  in 2017 (loan 5), she asked to borrow 
again. And the amount  she asked to borrow had increased  significantly. This was now her third 
request in the space of less than two months. So I think the lender should have started to become 
concerned that Miss B was becoming reliant on short term lending. Although I still think it was 
reasonable for 247 Moneybox  to base its affordability assessment on the information that Miss B 
provided, I think it should have additionally asked her some very specific questions about any other 
short term loans that she was already  committed to repaying.
Miss B repaid her sixth loan on time. But she asked to borrow once again on the same day as her 
repayment. And the amount  she asked to borrow had increased significantly  once again. By now the 
repayment she needed  to make was a reasonable proportion of the income that shed declared  to the 
lender. I think  by now 247 Moneybox should have realised that it was unlikely that Miss Bs finances 
were as healthy as she was saying. I think the lender should have taken steps to independently  verify 
Miss Bs true financial position.
But although  I dont  think the checks 247 Moneybox did before agreeing loans 6 and 7 were sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt  mean that Miss Bs complaint should  succeed.  Id also need to be persuaded  that 
what I consider  to be proportionate checks would  have  shown 247 Moneybox that Miss B couldnt  
sustainably afford those  loans. So Ive looked at Miss Bs bank statements, and what shes told us 
about her financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown 247 Moneybox.
As I said earlier, I think it was still reasonable for 247 Moneybox to base its affordability assessment 
for loan 6 on the information  Miss B provided. That suggested that she had £845 left over that she 
could use to repay her borrowing. I can see that when she took this loan Miss B was making a 
number of repayments to other short term lenders. But even if I reduced her declared disposable 
income to reflect those repayments shed  still have been able to afford  her borrowing from 
247 Moneybox. So I dont currently think proportionate checks would have suggested to 
247 Moneybox that this loan was unaffordable.
If 247 Moneybox  had looked  at Miss Bs actual financial position before agreeing loan 7 it would have 
seen that her normal expenditure was much higher than shed declared. After looking at what she was 
spending on her day to day living costs, and considering the repayments  she was making to other 
credit providers, she only had around £200 left over each  month. So I dont currently think  this loan, 
for more  than £400, was affordable for Miss B.
If 247 Moneybox  had done  what  I consider  to be proportionate  checks before the final loan I dont 
currently think  it would have agreed  to lend to Miss B. So 247 Moneybox needs to put things right.
Ref: DRN4362833