K822xcomplaint
Mr S complained that Autonet  Insurance Services Limited caused  his commercial motor  
insurance policy to be cancelled unfairly.
background
After Mr Ss policy was cancelled, Autonet accepted that theyd made a mistake, and 
rectified it. But Mr S complained that they didnt award any compensation for his trouble and 
inconvenience.  
The adjudicator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Autonet 
should pay Mr S compensation of £50. Autonet  agreed with this. But Mr S didnt  think that 
the compensation was enough, and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S took out a commercial van policy via Autonet, an insurance  broker. To set up his policy  
Autonet needed  certain documents, including his driving licence, from him by a deadline 
date. Mr S explained to them that he couldnt provide his driving licence within that time. This 
was because hed changed address and his driving  licence was still with DVLA for that to be 
updated. Autonet agreed with Mr S that, if he could  provide some alternative information,  
theyd ask the insurance underwriter for an extension to the deadline so that he could 
provide his licence.
Mr S gave Autonet the information theyd asked for by the deadline. But by mistake, due to 
one of their staff being off work, Autonet didnt ask their underwriter for the extension,  and so 
Mr Ss policy  was cancelled. This also incurred  charges.  
Autonet accepted that theyd made  a mistake  in not asking for the deadline to be extended,  
as theyd told Mr S they would. And they got the underwriter to remove the record of 
cancellation from databases, so that Mr S wouldnt have to disclose the cancellation to future  
insurers. They also set up a replacement policy  for him and removed any fees incurred in the 
cancellation. Mr S wanted them to also refund him the premiums  hed paid.  But they dont 
have to do that, as theyre entitled to payment  for the time theyd actually insured him under 
the policy.
Mr S also wanted compensation. The adjudicator recommended £50 compensation, but he 
felt that this wasnt enough and was no more than a slap  on the wrist  for Autonet.
He felt that Autonet had treated him ruthlessly and it wasnt just an honest mistake.  He felt 
that theyd caused him stress  and time trying  to resolve the situation  with them. He said he 
had to take time off work before and after his family  holiday to deal with it, they bombarded 
him with it during  his holiday,  and that his continued dealing  with it while  he was away  
caused tension in his family and ruined his holiday. 
Ref: DRN44559572As the adjudicator explained,  its not our role to punish businesses  and that isnt why we 
award compensation. He explained that there  is always likely to be some administration 
involved in setting up an insurance policy and that Autonet were entitled  to ask for the 
documents. However the adjudicator felt that Autonets actions to resolve the complaint 
didnt sufficiently acknowledge  the upset and inconvenience  caused to Mr S. He felt they 
should offer him £50.00,  which  is in line with similar  awards made by this service.  
Having fully considered the circumstances, I dont think that Autonets  mistake was 
deliberate. Autonet say that it happened  because a staff member was off sick, and I see no 
reason to disbelieve that. I agree that its a shame  for Mr S that this happened through no 
fault of his own. Hed done what they asked within their deadline, and it clearly  did put him to 
some inconvenience.  But although it was unfortunate  timing  for Mr S, it wasnt Autonets fault 
that he didnt have his driving licence or that he was going on holiday then. And I dont see 
that their communication with him during his holiday was unreasonable.  And when Autonet 
realised what had happened, they promptly agreed  a temporary  policy for him while they 
sorted out the situation and then organised  for him to have  a replacement policy.  So I think  
that they did act promptly and reasonably to resolve  the situation. 
And so while  I agree  that Autonet should pay Mr S some compensation, I think that overall 
what the adjudicator  has suggested, and Autonet have agreed  to pay, is appropriate  in the 
circumstances, and I dont  require them to pay any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Autonet  Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr S compensation of £50 for his trouble  
and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Autonet must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Autonet  consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr S.how much they have taken off, and give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4455957