K820x#14complaint
Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 say Yorkshire  Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 took out a PPI policy with a mortgage. They paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this sale likely  took place, theres little to no paperwork 
now available. This isnt very surprising. Yorkshire  has told us that the policy may have been 
sold at the same time as taking out a mortgage in 1989, but theyve got nothing to support 
this. 
What is certain is that Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 had a PPI policy in place in 1997 as theyve 
helpfully been able to provide a copy of an annual mortgage statement. They think they took 
this policy  out during  a phone call, possibly in 1997.
In fairness to both parties, I cant fairly say when or how this PPI policy was sold.  I also 
havent seen clear information that shows who was the insured party.  So its possible that 
both Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 were insured or that only one of them  was insured. 
Ive to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened  and if the policy was 
mis-sold. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s complaint because:
Unfortunately there arent any notes available of a meeting or any call recording  or 
call notes that would give me some  idea of what was likely discussed when the PPI 
was sold. Its also understandable that Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 may not recall it clearly 
after so long. 
There are also no documents  available to me from the time of the sale, which  is not 
at all surprising considering the sale possibly  took place nearly 30 years ago. So its 
difficult to know how the policy  was positioned  with Ms Y1 and Ms Y2. 
Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 say that PPI was just something included on the mortgage  
statement.I can only conclude that this was mis sold as no specific information was 
given to us  
Ref: DRN46766572In order for me to uphold this complaint Id have  to think  that Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s 
account was more likely than that of Yorkshires. But as these events happened so 
long ago and as theres no documentary  evidence to support  either  partys  position, 
I have to conclude  that Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s account is only as likely not more likely. 
So on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt  presented as optional  
or that they werent  given  a choice to take PPI.
Ive considered that Yorkshire made a recommendation to take PPI  as this places 
more responsibility  on them. This means  that they had to take reasonable steps to 
check that the policy was right for the insured parties as well as give Ms Y1 and 
Ms Y2 good enough information  about the policy so that they could decide if they 
wanted to take it out. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances it does seem to 
have been right for them whether they were both covered or just one fo them was 
covered. 
As I havent seen  the information  that Ms Y 1 and Ms Y2 were given about the policy  
at the time of sale, Ive assumed that Yorkshire couldve explained the cost of the 
policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 would still have 
bought it. 
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But     
Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 dont appear  to have been affected by any of those things.  
Ive taken into account Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s comments, including  what  theyve said about:
not needing PPI because of their existing means  - which included  sick pay. But this 
policy could have  paid out in addition  to and potentially for longer than Ms Y1 and 
Ms Y2s sick pay likely would have lasted for. I also havent seen supporting  
evidence that both Ms Y 1 and Ms Y2 were both entitled to indefinite full sick pay;
separate life cover meaning they didnt need PPI. But life cover  isnt directly  
comparable to PPI as life cover  would pay out in the unfortunate event of death. 
Whereas PPI would potentially benefit Ms Y1 or Ms Y2 if they were  unwell and 
unable to work or if they were  made  unemployed; 
the separate PPI policy on a credit card wouldnt help protect  Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s 
mortgage repayments. So I still think they could  have found this PPI policy useful;  
and 
If the PPI was taken  out at a later date, Ms Y1 may have  had a pre-existing medical  
condition. But as Ive already said, I cant safely say when this policy  was sold and 
who was covered by the policy, I cant fairly  uphold the complaint  for this reason.      
Id potentially be saying that a policy was unsuitable for someone who may never in 
fact have been covered by the policy.
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also noted  that our adjudicator told Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 that Yorkshire  didnt need  to pay 
back anything to Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 as the commission for the policy was less than half of
Ref: DRN46766573what they paid.  But from reviewing the information,  it seems that this mortgage ended  in 
1998. Ill explain in a bit more detail  below why this still means that Ms Y1 and Ms Y2 arent 
due back any redress. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Yorkshire provided information that shows Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s mortgage was taken out 
ended in 1998. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Y1 and Ms Y2s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms Y1 and 
Ms Y2 to accept or reject my decision before 5 August  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4676657