K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold Mr and Mrs D 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
I think RBS made Mr and Mrs D aware  that the PPI was optional, but that they still chose 
to take it.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, in the sense of saying it was 
particularly suited  to their individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
fitted their circumstances. It would instead have been for Mr and Mrs D to decide 
whether it was suitable. But even  if it had made that kind of recommendation, I think it 
would probably  have been  an appropriate  one in their circumstances at the time. Not 
being able to pay a mortgage  can cause significant difficulties.  Mr D has said he had 
particularly good sickness benefits from his employer, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any employer sickness and redundancy benefits.  And it would  have put off 
the time when they would need  to fall back on any savings or other means.  This would 
have put them in a more  secure position,  if theyd eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment.  
Its hard to know for certain how well RBS explained the costs and benefits  of the policy. 
The form that was likely to have been  used  would have set out the costs and the amount 
of benefit received.  But I dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  
would have affected whether Mr and Mrs D took the PPI.
Its possible RBS didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been affected  by any of these.  And theyd be paying 
for it monthly,  so they could cancel it at any time without further  cost if their situation 
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN46092072Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4609207