K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services, has terminated the hire purchase  agreement under which a car was supplied to 
him.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr L under a hire purchase agreement with Audi Financial  
Services that he electronically signed  in September 2018. He agreed to make  48 monthly 
payments of £499.42  for the car. He made  the first payment in October 2019 but no payment 
was made  between November 2018  and March 2019 so Audi Financial Services issued a 
default notice  to him in April 2019  and terminated  the agreement  in May 2019.
Mr L complained to Audi Financial Services but it said that the agreement had been 
terminated fairly. He wasnt  satisfied  with its response so complained to this service.
An adjudicator recommended in July 2019 that this complaint should be upheld. Audi 
Financial Services responded to the adjudicators recommendation and its response was 
considered by another adjudicator. That adjudicator also recommended  that this complaint 
should be upheld  and said in September 2019  that:
it was Audi Financial Services and the dealer who didnt communicate with each 
other about Mr Ls change  to his direct debit which resulted in the arrears and 
defaults  and Mr L cant be blamed for that;
the April 2019  payment  failed because Audi Financial Services  had incorrectly  
advised that the payment could  be taken from a bank account  for which  Mr L had 
provided details;  and
Mr L didnt do anything to cause the agreement  to be terminated. 
He recommended that: the agreement should be restored;  the arrears  and default  situation 
should be reversed;  Mr L should pay the outstanding balance  to date and the new direct 
debit should be set up; any adverse information  should be removed from Mr Ls credit  file; 
and he should  be given £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Audi Financial Services hasnt responded to the adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first payment under the hire purchase agreement was made  in October  2018  without 
any issue. Mr L then provided the dealer with new direct debit details. That direct  debit 
wasnt set up correctly  so the payments due from November 2018 to March  2019 werent 
collected. Mr L was responsible for making those payments and I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect  him to have  noticed that the payments  werent being made  but hes 
explained why he didnt notice that the payments hadnt been  made.  
Audi Financial Services didnt contact Mr L about the missed payments until April 2019 and it 
issued a default notice to him the next day. The payment due in April 2019 failed because  
Audi Financial Services accepts that it incorrectly advised Mr L that the payment could be 
Ref: DRN47602482taken from a bank  account for which Mr L had provided details. The agreement was 
terminated in May 2019 and a debt collection  agency was instructed to collect the amount 
outstanding from Mr L.
I consider that the error in setting up the direct debit was made by the dealer and that it 
would be reasonable to expect Audi Financial  Services  to have contacted Mr L about the 
missed payments sooner than it did. I dont consider  that it was reasonable for it to issue a 
default notice  to Mr L the day after it had contacted  him about the missed payments and it 
accepts that it then incorrectly advised  him that the payment could be taken from a bank 
account for which hed provided details.
Its clear that payments  have been  missed  but Mr L says that he will make those payments. 
I consider that more  of the responsibility  for the missed payments lies with Audi Financial 
Services and the dealer.  So I dont  consider that its fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for Audi Financial Services to have terminated the agreement.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for the agreement to be reinstated and for an 
affordable repayment  arrangement for the missed  payments to be agreed.  I also consider 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for Audi Financial Services to remove  any adverse 
information about the agreement from Mr L:s credit file.
These events have clearly  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr L. I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Audi Financial Services to pay him £250  to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and I order Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services,  to:
1.Reinstate the hire purchase agreement.
2.Try to agree an affordable repayment  arrangement with Mr L for the amount that he 
owes it under the agreement.
3.Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
4.Pay £250 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4760248