K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Aviva  Insurance Limiteds  handling of their claim for 
subsidence damage under their home insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C suffered  subsidence damage at their home. They  made a claim under their 
policy. Aviva  accepted the claim and arranged for its contractor to carry out repair  work. This 
was completed in August 2017.
Mr and Mrs C were dissatisfied with the quality of the work. Aviva agreed  that some  of the 
work was sub-standard.  It offered to put matters right using a different  contractor. 
Mr and Mrs C said that instead  they wanted  a cash settlement so they could appoint their 
own contractor. Aviva agreed to this. However,  the parties couldnt agree on the scope of 
works or the cost.
Mr and Mrs C eventually complained to Aviva. It issued a final response letter offering 
£10,234 to cover the secondary repair cost (including VAT) plus £400 compensation for the 
poor handling of the claim.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  at Avivas offer. They referred their complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Aviva accepted that the work of its initial contractor had been  sub-standard.  It offered to get 
another contractor  to carry  out secondary  repairs. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this offer and 
so Aviva agreed to provide a cash  settlement.  I cant see anything  in the policy  which says 
the cash settlement  must be limited to the amount it would cost Aviva if it used its own 
contractor. Aviva is therefore required to pay the reasonable costs which Mr and Mrs C will 
incur.
Some of the above costs  have already been  agreed  between the parties, though  not yet 
paid. For the avoidance  of doubt, these costs include  the following:
Bedroom carpet (£480)
Bedroom chest  of drawers  (£280)
Removal boxes in (£2,200)
Removal boxes out (£1,840)
Storage costs (£70)
Packing mats (£100)
Disposal of packing mats (£150)
Paint (£391)
Carpet cleaning  (£180)
Professional deep  clean (£375)
Skip (£300)
Portaloo (£160)
I consider that these  items are reasonable to be included in the cash  settlement. Im satisfied 
that Avivas offer to pay the above  amounts, which total £6,526,  is fair.
Ref: DRN40863882I shall deal with each  of the disputed  costs in turn.
curtain poles
The schedule of works drawn up by Avivas loss adjuster included £180  to allow  six curtain 
poles to be re-blacked. I think Aviva should meet this cost.
cost of floor tiles
Although Aviva originally  proposed that the damaged  floor tiles should be repaired, by the 
time it issued its final response letter it had agreed  that the entire floor should be replaced. 
Mr and Mrs C say that Aviva had agreed  to allow £50 per square metre for the cost of the 
tiles. I can find no evidence of this on the file. The allowance  in the schedule drawn up by its 
contractor was £20 per square metre. Unless Mr and Mrs C can show that a like-for-like 
replacement would cost more than this, I think this is the rate which should apply. The area 
to be re-tiled is 36.67 square  metres. Allowing for cutting and damage, I think  this figure 
should reasonably be rounded up to 40 square metres meaning that Aviva should pay £800 
to cover the cost of tiles.
flooring work
Aviva originally made a cash settlement offer based  on the repair,  rather than replacement, 
of the floor.  It subsequently agreed to the replacement  of the entire  floor but Mr and Mrs C 
say it didnt increase  its offer by an appropriate  amount to take account of this. Mr and Mrs C 
have asked for £9,570 (excluding VAT) to cover the cost of this work  but I havent  seen any 
evidence to show that this is a reasonable cost. It is up to Mr and Mrs C to obtain  a quote to 
show the cost of the work. In the absence of this, I can only ask Aviva to pay £1,442  
(excluding VAT) which I can see is the amount it has implicitly agreed to pay through  its 
overall cash settlement  offer. If, however, Mr and Mrs C come back  in response to this 
provisional decision with a reasonable quote  to show the cost of the work  then I am likely to 
revise my award  accordingly when I issue my final decision. If Mr and Mrs Cs contractor 
charges VAT, I think Aviva should  reimburse them this amount on receipt  of an invoice 
following completion of the work.
decorating work
Mr and Mrs C have provided  a quote for the decorating  work  (excluding the cost of paint) of 
£1,672. This includes the window sills and skirting boards. I think this is reasonable and that 
Aviva should  add this to the cash settlement. If VAT is charged on top of this, Aviva should 
pay Mr and Mrs C this amount upon  production of an invoice following completion of the 
work.
external works
Mr and Mrs C have agreed  to accept Avivas cash settlement  offer for the external works. 
This was £3,571  (excluding VAT). Im satisfied this amount is fair and think  this should  be 
added to the overall cash settlement offer. Aviva  should furthermore pay Mr and Mrs C the 
amount of VAT upon production of an invoice  following completion  of the work.
alternative accommodation / disturbance allowance / dog-sitting costs
Ref: DRN40863883There is a dispute  over what compensation Mr and Mrs C should be entitled to while  the 
works are taking place.  Aviva apparently paid for Mr and Mrs C to stay in alternative 
accommodation for the duration of the original works and I therefore think  it is fair that 
Mr and Mrs C should be allowed to move  out of the property for the duration  of the 
secondary works, including the decorating, should  they so wish. I think  Aviva  should cover 
the reasonable costs incurred as a result.  Mr and Mrs C have explained that the work is 
expected to take up to six weeks to complete and so I think this is the period  for which  Aviva  
should be prepared  to cover costs.  If the work were to over-run, I dont  think Aviva should  be 
liable for costs beyond  this time because it isnt managing the contractor.
However, I cannot in this decision say how much Aviva should  pay to cover  these costs. This 
is because Mr and Mrs C havent decided  what they will do. Their options  include staying 
with friends/family,  staying in a hotel and renting  a property. I dont think  Aviva  should be 
expected to pay costs  which Mr and Mrs C dont incur. I dont know whether Mr and Mrs C 
are likely to incur costs for matters such as laundry, additional travelling expenses and dog 
care. A disturbance  allowance,  which we would normally say should  be at the rate of £10 a 
day for an adult and £5 for a child, may be appropriate to cover  the extra cost of meals if 
Mr and Mrs C dont have access to their own cooking facilities, such  as in a basic  hotel,  but 
wouldnt necessarily be appropriate otherwise.
  
I therefore think it will be up to the parties  to agree  on the appropriate amount of 
compensation for living elsewhere during the works once Mr and Mrs C are able to provide 
Aviva with clarification and evidence of those costs. If Mr and Mrs C are unhappy at the 
amount offered by Aviva to cover these costs for up to a six week  period they can complain 
to Aviva and, if agreement still cant be reached, they can refer this to us as a new 
complaint.
compensation
I think Aviva  has caused trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs C through its poor handling of the 
claim which has resulted in the claim dragging  on for far longer than it should have done. I 
think it fair that Aviva pays Mr and Mrs C £1,000 compensation for this.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs C provided further evidence to show that Avivas contractor had previously 
agreed that £50 per square metre should be allowed for the cost of the tiles. They also 
provided two quotes for the flooring work, one for £5,457 and one for £5,350  (both excluding 
VAT).
Aviva didnt offer any comment on the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld  but I think the cash settlement  should be increased to reflect the further 
evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs C.
In my provisional decision,  I allowed £800 for the cost of tiles. This was to cover the cost of 
tiles to cover  an area of 40 square metres at a cost of £20 per square metre.  However,  
I invited Mr and Mrs C to provide evidence if they believed the like for like replacement  of the 
Ref: DRN40863884tiles would cost more than this. They have  provided evidence to show  that Avivas contractor 
was prepared to allow the higher sum of £50 per square  metre.  I think  it is reasonable to 
increase the cash  settlement on that basis, meaning  that the total cost to be allowed for tiles 
is £2,000.
In my provisional decision,  I further  allowed £1,442 (excluding VAT) to cover the cost of the 
flooring work (excluding the cost of the tiles)  but I invited  Mr and Mrs C to obtain a quote to 
show the reasonable cost of the work.  Mr and Mrs C have now provided  two quotes which 
are quite similar to one another.  However,  they have explained that they would prefer  to use 
the company which provided the higher quote  (£5,457, excluding  VAT) because it was 
personally recommended to them.  I think  this sounds reasonable.
I have informed Aviva of the proposed  changes  above and it has raised no objections.
Neither Aviva nor Mr and Mrs C have objected to the other elements of the provisional 
decision and I am satisfied that these should therefore stand.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold  
this complaint. I require  Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs C a cash settlement of £19,406. This includes £5,457 for the flooring 
work, £1,672 for the decorating work and £3,571 for the external work, all of which  
are exclusive  of VAT. Aviva should  reimburse Mr and Mrs C for any VAT on the 
above on receipt of appropriate invoices following completion  of the work.
Provide cover for up to six weeks while Mr and Mrs C live in alternative 
accommodation during the time the work is taking place. However,  this decision 
doesnt seek to determine the amount of cover to be provided because the costs  
which Mr and Mrs C may incur  are not yet known.  It is up to the parties to agree this 
between themselves at a later stage or, if they cant do so, for Mr and Mrs C to bring 
this back as a new complaint  to this service.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4086388