K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 1994, sometime after taking out a mortgage. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  how Mr C applied for his mortgage or the PPI policy.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £160.21 a month towards  Mr Cs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £11.09  a month.  
At the time,  Mr C took out the policy the PPI application form indicates  he was employed  as 
a Groundworker. However,  Mr C has told us he was self-employed  doing this role. He has 
indicated he was not entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy but did have some savings or 
around £2,000Mr C has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us mortgage  account statements that show the mortgage account was 
redeemed and closed  in 2003. 
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
 
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN49063482As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN49063483professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr C did not take out this PPI at the time he took out his mortgage, the application form was 
completed by Mr C over three years later. It would seem this PPI application was made 
following receipt by Mr C of a mailing providing  him with an example of the costs and 
benefits of the PPI for his particular mortgage.  This mailing may have  been  sent following a 
telephone call or possibly just as a general  mailing.  But Mr C already had his mortgage in 
place, and it was clear the PPI was something he could  choose to have by completing  and 
returning the application form.
Ref: DRN49063484Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr C agree that advice  wasnt provided during  this sale.  
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr C. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr C was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover - that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr C was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment - and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because some of this information is set out on the application form 
Mr C completed  and I think its unlikely Mr C would  have  taken  out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the about the exclusions or limitations before Mr C agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think Santander gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
Ref: DRN49063485not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Santander  done things  properly.  
Mr C says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
The information Mr C was given  on the application form about the cost and benefit for his 
mortgage was clear. But the information  about other aspects of the policy,  such  as any 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr C knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions.
Ref: DRN49063486Mr C has indicated he had a fractured  bone  some eight years before taking out the policy. 
As this had not occurred in the 12 months  before the start of the policy and there is no 
evidence to show there were any ongoing  issues following this injury this would not have 
been caught by any restriction of the policy. And Mr C didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr C would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Mr C has indicated he was self-employed and therefore would not be able to claim on the 
policy. But this policy did not have onerous  conditions relating to those who were self-
employed. Providing Mr C had been in continuous work for 12 months before the start date 
of the policy  he could claim in exactly the same way as someone who was employed. On his 
PPI application  form he has indicated he had been  undertaking the same work for 5 years. 
So his employment  status did not restrict the benefits he had under the policy.
Therefore, as he wasnt caught  by any of the significant exclusions of the policy,  I still think 
he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Santander may not have told Mr C that any claim he made would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for, but he had 
limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr C would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensuring his home  was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr C was made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr C would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
Ref: DRN49063487substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Santander  should pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr C, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1993 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr C and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020
Ref: DRN49063488Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906348