K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1999. Miss B says Newcastle  Building  Society (Newcastle)  mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Newcastle had to make it clear to Miss B that she had a choice about 
it. But Miss B says she was led to believe that the PPI was mandatory and she had to have it 
for her mortgage application to be successful.
Newcastle has sent us a copy of Miss Bs application form for the mortgage.  This included a 
section on PPI asking  if she wanted  a quotation,  with yes and no boxes to be ticked. And 
the yes box has been ticked. Newcastle  has also sent us a copy  of the PPI quotation letter  
sent to Miss B, which gives the cost and benefit  of the PPI and says to return the enclosed 
form if she wants to take it out.
Newcastle hasnt been able to send  us a copy of Miss Bs PPI application form. But it has 
sent us an example of what it says the form wouldve looked like. And this example  required 
the customer to sign to say they wanted to apply for the PPI.
Theres nothing on any of the documents Ive seen which  suggests  Miss B has to take the 
PPI for her mortgage  application to be successful.  And, if Miss B didnt want the PPI, I think 
she couldve  ticked the no box on the mortgage application form or not returned the PPI 
application form.
Based on the evidence  I have, I dont theres enough evidence to say Newcastle told Miss B 
she had to have  the PPI. And so I think its likely Newcastle made it clear to her she had a 
choice about it, and that Miss B chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Newcastle gave Miss B any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. And this means it didnt have  to check if 
the PPI was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss B got the information she needed 
to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Newcastle gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she received. So it would  have been  
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Miss B off taking it out.
Ref: DRN43699052Miss B has said one of the reasons she took the PPI was to be covered for redundancy, but 
that she was later told the policy may not cover redundancy. The terms of the policy  
Newcastle has sent us show that redundancy would have  been covered. So I think  its likely 
that it was covered and I dont think this means  the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Newcastle needs to give Miss B some of the commission 
she paid back.  The Supreme Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Bs mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Newcastle doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Miss B paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4369905