K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way in which Covea  Insurance plc dealt  with an escape  of water
claim raised under her home  insurance policy.
All references to Covea  include its appointed agents.
Background
Mrs C had an escape of water claim with Covea.  The background to this claim and
subsequent developments are extensive.  So I will set out below the key events which are
relevant to my decision. However, I want to reassure both parties that I have read and
carefully considered  everything that has been provided.
In March 2018, Mrs Cs property experienced an escape of water.  It was found there  was a
leaking pipe and a hole in her roof. Covea  accepted  the claim for the leaking  pipe and
appointed a loss adjuster to inspect  the damage. It also arranged for Mrs C to go into
alternative accommodation and agreed a disturbance allowance.
Covea said it was Mrs Cs responsibility  to get the leak repaired and so she arranged for a
plumber to visit the property, who made the area safe. Covea appointed a drying  company 
who Ill refer to as CD  to put together a list of contents beyond economical repair and to
dry the property.
There followed some  delays as Mrs C required a number of hospital  appointments. During
this time Covea provided Mrs C with a clothing  allowance and extended  her alternative
accommodation/disturbance allowance. It also paid Mrs C for taxi journeys as her GP has
advised she couldnt use public transport.
Towards late April 2018 Covea reviewed  the claim. The loss adjuster had yet to visit the
property, the leak hadnt been  fixed and drying hadnt started. In addition,  Mrs Cs contents
hadnt been moved from the property which meant there was a risk of secondary damage
occurring.
In May 2018  Covea  told Mrs C that it was a priority to get the leak fixed  as soon as possible.
Around a week  later a plumber  visited the property but was unable to complete repairs due
to a rodent infestation. Mrs C was asked to sort this and arranged  for pest control to visit the
property. This was sorted by late June.
During this time CD and the loss adjuster both attended the property and completed reports.
Covea reviewed the reports and decided to arrange a two-month let for Mrs C, during which
time the pest controller would attend  the property and reinstatement works could be
completed. Covea  also reduced Mrs Cs disturbance  allowance around this time.
Covea was unsuccessful  in finding  a suitable short-term let for Mrs C so it extended her
hotel accommodation.  The leaking  pipe was fixed in July 2018, but the property  was still
without central heating.  Covea asked Mrs C to provide the cause for the central  heating
failure to see if it would be covered under the policy.
In August  2018  CD told Covea it couldnt  dry the property till the electrics were  sorted.
Covea asked if CD could  fit a temporary  power  board for the drying equipment which  it did
soon after.  Covea withheld  Mrs Cs disturbance allowance due to the number of missed
appointments with its suppliers. Mrs C says she was in poor health  during this time and had
Ref: DRN48212192a number of hospital appointments at short  notice.
In late August 2018 Mrs Cs appointed electrician came to repair  the electrics but couldnt
due to the temporary power board installed by CD. Around this time Covea also received a
quote for Mrs Cs damaged contents to review.  The electrics  were  repaired by a different
contractor in late September.
In September  2019 Mrs Cs remaining  contents from the affected rooms were  removed from
the property and placed into storage. Covea sent a contractor  who Ill refer to as O  to
scope out the reinstatement works to the property.  O provided a report  and determined  there
was additional  damage to the property which wasnt caused by the leaking pipe  rather it
had been caused by the hole in the roof which hadnt been accepted as a claim. So it
suggested Covea  look to cash settle the claim based on the damage caused  by the leaking
pipe water only. Covea  offered  a cash settlement for two of the damaged rooms and
suggested Mrs C could  use this money to repair  the damaged roof.
In October  2018 Covea  said it no longer  deemed  Mrs Cs home uninhabitable as Os scope
of works didnt include any damage related  to the escape of water which would render the
home uninhabitable. Mrs C said she wasnt happy to move  back  into the property as it was
still damp and without heating. She was also concerned about  the effect of the damp on her
contents if they were  to be returned  at this stage. Mrs C provided a letter from her doctor
saying she couldnt  return to her home in its current state due to her ongoing health issues.
Covea told Mrs C it couldnt  begin  drying  the property until the roof was fixed  otherwise the
area would become damaged again.  Covea made arrangements to move Mrs C back to the
property and return her contents. Mrs C complained to Covea and also referred  her
complaint to our service.
In November 2018, Mrs C outlined the outstanding issues with her claim which  were  in
summary:
There was water damage to five rooms in the property  and so far Covea had offered
a cash settlement for two rooms;
She hadnt received any disturbance allowance since June 2018 and would like it
back paid;
She had the base  of her bed returned but not the mattress  as this was water
damaged and disposed of, so she currently doesnt have anywhere to sleep and
would like a replacement or cash settlement for this;
Some of her contents had been  returned broken and have been placed on the
carpets that were due to be cleaned;
The boiler has been switched off as the heating contractor has advised that the water
has damaged the gas pipe and boiler, so it is too dangerous to be switched back  on;
Who will be paying for the electricity  costs of the drying company;
The cooker and fridge  dont  work  as a result of water coming  through  the ceiling  so at
the moment there are no food storage or cooking facilities;
There are outstanding items on the contents  claim.
Covea responded to the issues Mrs C raised. It said it was waiting for a quote from CD in
order to cash settle the carpets. It didnt agree that it needed to pay for water damage  in the
other rooms  based  on Os report.  It said that the beds and furniture were  reassembled when
they were returned,  and that the contents hadnt been damaged by its contractors.
Ref: DRN48212193Covea reviewed Mrs Cs list of damaged contents  and said it had already offered a
settlement for the mattresses,  but it agreed  an additional cash  settlement  for the damaged
fridge and cooker.  It asked Mrs C to provide a report on the cause of the damaged boiler and
confirmed it would cover  CDs electricity costs once  the roof was repaired.  Covea didnt
agree to Mrs Cs request  for a back paid disturbance allowance.
In December 2018 Covea received a report from the heating  contractor  but it didnt state the
cause of damage to the gas pipes and heating system   but it did say a new heating  system
was required.  Covea raised  a payment to Mrs C to cash  settle  the damaged rooms. It also
reviewed Mrs Cs concerns about the damaged contents again  and said that some of the
items in question were  damaged prior to removal. It was unable  to comment on the
remaining items.
In March 2019 Covea wrote  to Mrs C to highlight the current  position  of the claim. It said it
was still waiting for further information  from the heating  contractor  regarding  the cause of the
damaged pipes and heating. It confirmed its contractor could replace the damaged carpets
and vinyl or it could cash  settle.  It noted  Mrs C had yet to replace the fridge  and cooker and
said its contractor could  provide new units if she returned the cash settlement it had already
paid for this.
In April 2019 Covea  contacted the heating contractor who confirmed water had got into the
heating system which was the cause of damage  and it needed  replacing.  Covea  agreed  to
settle this part of the claim. The heating system was replaced in October 2019. Covea also
offered Mrs C £400 towards  the cost of a professional unpacking service for her contents.
In October  2019 our investigator issued her findings.  She looked at everything and
recommended the complaint be upheld. She found  she couldnt determine the cause of
damage to the roof, so there wasnt enough evidence  to require Covea to meet this claim. 
She found that Coveas disturbance allowance varied unfairly during the claim and
recommended it pay Mrs C £15 per day for the duration of her time in alternative
accommodation.
Our investigator considered how Mrs C had been  moved back  into the property before it was
repaired and found it was unfair  in the way Covea  had done this. She concluded Covea
could have used  the time the property  was empty to get its own cause of damage reports as
opposed to relying  on Mrs C to do this. She found that Covea needed to deal with the
damage in all four rooms  as it was difficult to distinguish the damage  that was pre-existing
and that caused by the leaking pipe. She also found  Covea needed to increase  its cash
settlement offer to a level which reflected the cost of repairs  to Mrs C (the market rate),  or
alternatively offer contractors to do the work.
In addition, our investigator  considered Coveas offer for the unpacking service and found
this to be fair. But she found  the issues regarding a replacement fridge and cooker  were
unresolved and needed to be settled. Our investigator found  Mrs Cs testimony about the
damaged items persuasive and said Covea needed to repair or replace the damaged items.
With regard to the delays in the claim, our investigator said that it was unreasonable  for two
months to pass without a loss adjuster  attending the property, and that eight months for
repairs was unnecessary. She said Covea should have had more control over the situation
and provided additional  support due to Mrs Cs vulnerability  particularly in regard to the
cause of damage reports it requested.
Our investigator also considered the difficulties  in assessing the damaged  items returned
from storage and the stress caused to Mrs C with the dismantled furniture. She
Ref: DRN48212194recommended Covea pay £750  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused
throughout the claim.
Mrs C responded and didnt agree with the amount of compensation offered. She didnt feel
it reflected the upset  caused throughout the claim.  Mrs C also added that five rooms  were
damaged by the escape of water  and not four as had been set out.
Covea responded and said it wasnt at fault for the initial  delays in the claim as appointments
kept getting cancelled by Mrs C. It said it would require proof  of medical  appointments before
it would  consider any further disturbance  allowance payments  as it felt Mrs Cs delays were
unreasonable. Covea said it had paid a total of £1140  disturbance  allowance over a period
of 109 days up to 22 June 2018  which averages at over £10 per day. As this was greater
than its usual allowance of £10 per day it didnt  feel it should pay any more. Covea also said
that if Mrs C had kept to the original appointments then the claim  would have been  settled
sooner.
Covea accepted there were two further  rooms affected by water damage and offered a
further cash settlement  for these. It said it would require evidence of further damage before it
offered any more. Covea  said it had issued payments to settle  the contents claim including
everything on CDs list of items,  the mattresses, clothing, fridge and cooker.  Covea said it
would consider further payments for the damaged  contents as Mrs C signed a disclaimer
when the items were  taken and returned. Covea added it had paid Mrs Cs taxi fares during
the claim as a gesture of goodwill. It didnt agree to the £750 compensation payment as it
said it wasnt responsible  for any of the delays.
Our investigator responded to Covea. She concluded the increased disturbance allowance
payment didnt require further evidence as she had seen sufficient details  of Mrs Cs medical
conditions and appointments  to be satisfied. She said that due to the amount of time that
had passed, it was likely the estimates for settlement  would have changed, so Covea either
needed to get a loss adjuster to attend  the property again or arrange  for an independent
inspection of the property by someone jointly appointed. Our investigator added that Covea
should then settle the remainder of the claim at the market rate costs or agree to carry out
the repairs, less any costs already settled.
Our investigator maintained her position  that Covea  should  repair  and cover the cost of the
damaged items and also pay £750 compensation. Our investigator explained this covered
the period where Mrs C was left without heating  for a year in a damp property,  wasnt able to
sleep on a bed due to it being dismantled  and acknowledged the fact that some  parts  of the
claim had been  settled but others  were still outstanding over 12 months  later.
Covea responded and said it still wanted  to see medical evidence  from Mrs C before
considering any further  disturbance allowance payments. It sent a loss adjuster  to the
property and provided a further report but said the onus  would  be on Mrs C to evidence  any
further damage claimed for. Covea maintained  its position over the damaged  contents  and
did not agree to any compensation as it said it had made every effort to progress the claim
as quickly and efficiently  as possible.
The complaint was referred  to me and on 1 October  2020, I set out in my provisional 
decision why I felt Covea  should settle  Mrs Cs claim. Ive repeated  an extract below:
When making a decision  on a complaint I usually consider matters as they stood at the time
the financial business issued its final response  to the complaint. However, occasionally its
Ref: DRN48212195impractical to do so  for instance because the situation has moved  on or because further
evidence has come to light. On these occasions  I need to consider things as they currently
stand. In this case I will be considering Mrs Cs original  complaint and include  the
developments since our investigator made  her recommendations to Covea, in order  to arrive
at a relevant,  and fair answer.
The Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS)  sets out the rules  which  insurers
must follow when handling  a claim. The relevant sections of ICOBS 8.1 state an insurer  (in
this case Covea) must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder (Mrs C) make  a claim and
appropriate information on its progress;
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I can see times where Covea hasnt acted
fairly in this respect.  I can see delays in the claim because Covea hasnt provided Mrs C with
the information or guidance necessary to progress the claim. Ive considered  Mrs Cs
situation as a vulnerable individual with documented health  problems, and as such, would
have expected Covea to take more control  of the claim instead of showing limited  progress
over a number of months.
As Covea  has defended  its position on a number of outstanding issues  I will set out what  I
think is a fair and reasonable way to move the claim forward below, whilst also considering
the issues Mrs C has raised at the same time.
Claim for roof damage
Ive considered the expert reports provided and considered whether there  is enough
evidence to show the damage  to the roof was caused by an event which is covered under
Mrs Cs policy.
Mrs C has provided our service with photographs from around the time of the escape of
water claim. The photographs show there was snow at the time and Mrs C has also provided
evidence to show there was a storm (Storm Emma). This meant snow  entered the property
through the hole in the roof and caused additional  water damage.
Storm is an event covered  under most  home insurance policies so Ive checked  to see what
Mrs C would be covered  for. Mrs Cs policy doesnt  include  a definition  for storm, so Ive
considered our services  approach and how we would  typically  define a storm. And given the
amount of snowfall present around  the time the roof damage was notified,  I am satisfied the
conditions were exceptional enough  to be classed as a storm.
However, our service also considers whether the damage being claimed for is consistent
with damage a storm typically causes, and whether the storm conditions were  the main
cause of the damage. And in order for the claim to be accepted,  the answer to both of these
questions must be yes.
Covea has said in order for it to consider the damage to the roof it requires evidence to show
the cause of damage. Neither party has provided  evidence to our service to explain what
caused the roof damage. As such, I am unable to determine whether the damage itself is
consistent with that typically caused by a storm. And it follows I am unable  to determine
Ref: DRN48212196whether the storm  conditions were the main  cause of the damage.  Therefore I dont think  it
would be fair to require  Covea  to accept this claim based on the limited evidence  available,
and as such I wont require it do to anything further with regard  to the roof damage.  If Mrs C
is able to obtain evidence that the likely cause of the roof damage was the storm, she should
submit this to me prior to the issuing of my final decision, or to Covea for consideration at a
later date.
Additional water damage
Covea has offered a cash settlement for the claim based on what  it has considered to be
damage linked to the burst pipe.  To do this it has relied on a scope of works from O which
was completed some  months  after the event happened. Covea has now also accepted  water
damage caused to a further two rooms  in the property. Based on the evidence Ive seen in
CDs report and Mrs Cs testimony I am persuaded there was water damage  from the burst
pipe which  affected  five rooms. Unfortunately a significant amount of time has passed now
which makes it difficult to determine if there is further damage  in the property. So I will set
out what I believe to be a reasonable settlement for the damage  based on what Ive seen.
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy to see what  options are available to
Covea to settle the claim. Under  the section titled How we settle your Claim it states. we
will decide  whether to settle a claim by either rebuilding, repairing or replacing or by making
a payment in respect of the damaged part of the buildings 
Covea has decided to settle the claim by cash as it says it has been able to distinguish
between the water damage  caused by the burst pipe and the damage which was either pre-
existing or caused  by the hole in the roof.
Ive considered all of the expert reports and photographs of the claim and I am not
persuaded that Covea has successfully managed to differentiate between the two causes of
damage. I say this because the preliminary report from CD dated May 2018 states EOW
from pipe in the attic on 02.03.18. has affected  the Bathroom,  Bedroom, Dining room  and
Kitchen.  A later report from another contractor  dated December 2018  lists damaged  items in
the bathroom, bedroom, dining room,  lounge, and kitchen. Both reports  were done  some
time after the event  and as such there  will be a degree of subjectivity in the findings. In
addition, the report  in December 2018 was done after Mrs Cs contents had been returned,
thus limiting the experts ability to investigate the damage thoroughly.
From the photographs of the damage I think it is likely there was some pre-existing damage
present before the escape of water event.  But the time between  the event and the leak
repair (four months) and further the time between the scope of works  and roof repairs
(around 8 months)  mean  it is difficult to separate the damage Covea is and isnt liable for. In
situations such as this our services  approach  is that the insurer  must undertake an effective
and lasting repair to the affected  areas  or settle  the claim in line with what it would cost the
consumer to do the repairs. In this case that means  Covea  must settle the claim for all five
rooms affected by the escape of water  and listed in the December 2018 report.
Covea says it didnt  have an opportunity to investigate the damage earlier  because  Mrs C
kept cancelling appointments, but I am not persuaded by this. Covea was made  aware at a
very early stage in the claim of Mrs Cs health  problems  including diabetes, a heart
condition, and mobility  issues. So I think it should  have made the loss adjuster appointment
a much higher  priority (certainly sooner than two months)  so it could scope  the damage
caused by the burst  pipe and set out why this was different to the damage caused  by the
hole in the roof. I also havent  seen  anything to show why Covea wasnt  able to scope  the
Ref: DRN48212197works while the property  was empty  and without contents in order to provide a more
accurate quote.  It appears that once Covea decided it wasnt liable for all the damage it
focussed on returning Mrs C to the property  without completing any repairs  and instead tried
to cash settle the claim.
Coveas current cash settlement is limited to four rooms  and to what  it would cost its own
contractors to repair the damage. But theres nothing  in Mrs Cs policy  to say Covea is
allowed to settle  the claim  this way and as such I find this approach unfair. Based on what
Ive seen I think Covea  needs to cash settle  the claim  for all five rooms listed and to the
amount it would cost Mrs C to do the repairs. Mrs C has already provided  two quotes for the
carpets and flooring to be replaced so I think Covea should review these again and accept
the most  reasonable quote. I understand Mrs C has also obtained a quote for the plastering
work required. If she is able to provide  this and any other quotes to our service in response
to my provisional decision I will consider  it as part of my final decision.
Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance payments
Ive considered Coveas actions at the start of the claim. Initially it moved quickly to place
Mrs C into alternative  accommodation and acknowledged she was a vulnerable  customer.
However, as the claim progressed Coveas approach to this was inconsistent.  I can see from
the claim history that Mrs C was initially offered a disturbance allowance of £15 per day. But
later in the claim this was reduced to £5 per day for an evening meal  only and withheld
altogether from June 2018.
I can see Covea attempted to source  an alternative short-term  let for Mrs C but was
unsuccessful. So it should have taken  into account that Mrs C was staying in a hotel and as
such had no access to cooking or storage  facilities. So it would have been more  expensive
for her to eat. I cant see that Mrs C made any unreasonable requests during this time and I
acknowledge that finding an alternative  let was difficult. But it doesnt follow  that Mrs Cs
disturbance allowance should  then be reduced as a result.
Covea has asked for further medical evidence before  considering additional costs but I dont
think this is necessary. It was Coveas  decision  to put Mrs C into a hotel and I dont hold
Mrs C fully responsible for the delays in the claim here. So I think Covea needs to reimburse
Mrs C for the time she was without a disturbance allowance. I think  a payment of £15 per
day is reasonable to cover two meals in a hotel setting and is additional to what Mrs C would
usually expect to spend on food. So I intend  to require Covea to make a payment equal to
£15 per day for the time Mrs C was in alternative  accommodation.
Ive considered Coveas actions in moving Mrs C back into the property when it did. Covea
has said it did this because the damage  it was liable for didnt make the property 
uninhabitable. But I disagree. The property hadnt been dried at all and there  was no central
heating moving  into the winter period.  Covea  left it to Mrs C to complete a cause of loss for
the heating rather  than follow up on previous contractor comments  that water  had got into
the system (which later turned out to be true).  In addition, there were no cooking or food
storage facilities at the property as Covea didnt cash settle or scope this part of the claim
until November 2018 when Mrs C was about to move  back in. And whilst Covea did cash
settle the fridge and cooker (at contractor rate in line with the policy),  it was left to Mrs C to
source these items despite her vulnerable state.  Ive seen a letter from Mrs Cs GP which
states in their opinion  it wasnt  suitable  for Mrs C to move back to the property in its current
state given her health conditions and I am persuaded  by this.
Ref: DRN48212198Based on the above, I find the property  was uninhabitable given the lack of heating  and
cooking facilities and it was unfair  for Covea to move  Mrs C back when it did. I think  Covea
needs to compensate Mrs C for the distress  caused  here and I will address this later in my
decision.
Contents claim
Covea says it has settled  Mrs Cs claim for damaged contents and provided a breakdown  of
payments including clothes, mattresses, and for a replacement fridge and cooker.  Mrs C
says Covea hasnt  fully settled her contents claim.
Our investigator asked  Covea for further evidence and a breakdown  of the contents  claim so
it could be shown exactly what  items had been  settled.  Covea  said it would review its
position here but hadnt provided a further  update to our service since the information  was
requested.
As such,  I have limited  information available to me to determine if the contents claim has
been fully settled. I can see Covea has made payments for a number of contents which  I set
out in the background  to this complaint. However,  given the time that has passed  I dont
think it would  be reasonable to require  Mrs C to evidence  this further  she has already
provided our service with a significant amount of information on this point. So as part of this
decision I intend to require Covea to review  the contents claim in full again and demonstrate
that each item claimed has been  accounted for and settled.
Covea has offered £400 towards the cost of a professional unpacking company for Mrs Cs
contents. I think this is a reasonable offer. But if this money isnt sufficient for Mrs C to hire a
professional unpacking service  then I think it would be reasonable for Covea to increase this
offer to cover the full cost subject to a quotation provided by Mrs C.
Return of contents/damaged items
Ive carefully considered  the photographs, testimony,  and reports provided by both parties
with regard to the contents Mrs C says were damaged upon return. I can see from the
photographs provided that some  of the items  were already damaged or in a state of disrepair
when they were moved from the property. Coveas  contractor was also unable to offer
insurance for the items  due to the condition  in which they were  initially found.
I have some sympathy with Mrs C here and I can imagine that having her items returned  into
a property which hadnt been  repaired would have  caused her a great deal of stress. But I
also have to consider  that the contractors  completed  a report  upon  both taking and returning
the items.  And on the report  it notes  there  were parts missing to the bed and other furniture.
And this is the evidence  I am most persuaded by here. So I wont be requiring Covea to
make an additional  payment  for the alleged damaged items. I will however consider the
impact to Mrs C of Covea returning the contents to an uninhabitable  property.
Fridge/cooker
I understand that this aspect of the claim is still outstanding as Mrs C has been unable to
find a replacement fridge and cooker  with the settlement from Covea. Covea has offered to
replace Mrs Cs fridge and cooker with a like for like replacement  through one of its
contractors if she returns this portion of the cash settlement. I think  this is a fair and
reasonable offer by Covea and if Mrs C wishes to do this she should let Covea know.
Ref: DRN48212199Compensation
Ive considered that escape of water  claims can be complex and will often incur delays while
the parties determine the best way to proceed with the claim. But on this occasion I cannot
and will not accept Coveas position  that it is not responsible for any of the delays and has
made every effort to progress the claim as quickly and efficiently as possible. I find Coveas
attempts to cash settle the claim  unfair  and I think there were times  where  Covea could have
taken a more  proactive  approach in the claim considering Mrs Cs vulnerabilities  and relative
lack of support.
I have considered Mrs C missed a number  of appointments due to her medical  conditions
and this happened frequently in the early stages of the claim.  But I think  this should have put
Covea on notice and it should have made its contractor visits a much  higher priority than it
did. Instead I can see there were often  some weeks between appointments and a lot of the
onus was placed on Mrs C to substantiate her claim.  Given Mrs Cs vulnerabilities I am
surprised Covea didnt  take a pragmatic  decision  to complete some  of the mitigation works
itself in order to reduce  the overall cost of the claim.
One example  of the delays was in regard to the heating system which failed after the escape
of water.  Covea eventually accepted  the claim after calling the heating contractor directly in
April 2019 to see if the problem was linked  to the escape of water.  I havent  seen anything to
indicate why it didnt do this much sooner  or complete a cause of loss report for the roof or
other areas when the property was empty of contents. These issues  led to the claim taking
longer and the property being without central  heating for around a year  including the entire
of last winter.
It also appears our service has had to intervene  on a number of occasions to get the claim
moving forward  such as recommending a further loss adjuster visit and getting the
contents claim re-reviewed.
Mrs C has provided a detailed testimony about the impact of the claim which I am persuaded
by. This includes the disruption to her home  life, the time spent without a disturbance
allowance, and the stress caused by being moved back into an uninhabitable property -
including boxes full of contents  onto carpets which hadnt been professionally  dried.  I think
this would have  caused Mrs C a substantial amount of stress and upset.
Overall I think  the impact to Mrs C here has been  significant. Covea has closed the claim but
I find a number of issues  unresolved nearly two years after the event occurred, and I think
Mrs C would have expected the claim to be resolved by now.
Taking into account all of the above, I think a payment of £2,500 would better reflect the
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C. This payment covers the period from when the
claim was made in March  2018, to the date Mrs C says she accepts  my final decision.
I wont be considering  compensation  for any ongoing delays, I am making a finding  on what
has happened so far. Should Mrs C have reason to complain about  any further delays to the
claim or issues  not covered here, then our service  would  consider this as a separate  matter.
In summary,  I proposed  that to put things right for Mrs C, Covea should:
Increase its cash settlement to include the repairs required to all five rooms  caused
by water damage from the burst pipe. This amount must reflect  the cost to Mrs C to
Ref: DRN482121910complete the reinstatement works and calculated from the quotations  provided  by
Mrs C for the carpet/flooring  and plastering/decorating in all damaged  rooms;
Pay interest on this amount  at 8% simple  per year from the date of loss to the date of
settlement;
Increase Mrs Cs disturbance allowance  payment to £15 per day for the entire period
she was in alternative accommodation  and pay Mrs C the difference;
Settle any remaining  items of the contents claim as beyond  economical repair  plus
8% simple  interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
Pay for a professional  unpacking service to unpack Mrs Cs contents subject to an
acceptable quote provided  by Mrs C;
Provide Mrs C with a new fridge and cooker at an appointed contractor rate. If Mrs C
is unable to return the cash settlement for this then Covea can deduct  this cost from
the compensation figure below;
Pay Mrs C £2,500  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Developments
Mrs C and Covea both provided substantial responses to my provisional  decision. They  both 
made a number of points  on the issues which maintained their initial positions. I wont repeat 
those points again here, but I want to reassure  both parties that Ive read the responses  in 
full. For the purposes  of this decision Ill only include the points below which differ  from each 
parties initial position.
Mrs C said in summary:
She accepted  the offer of a new cooker  and fridge and said Covea  could deduct  the 
cost of this from the final settlement;
She acknowledged she had missed some  appointments due to her health, but didnt 
agree she was at fault for the other missed appointments;
She provided a quote for the plastering  and redecorating dated  November 2019;
She didnt agree  with my decision regarding the damage to her contents, and 
provided further testimony about the state  each item was in before and after it was 
removed from the property;
She wanted a higher amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Covea said in summary:
It wished to make a payment to Mrs C of an additional disturbance  allowance  for the 
period 22 June 2018 to 26 October  2018  at a rate of £15 per day, totalling £1860;
It would  make a payment to replace the damaged  carpet and vinyl in the five rooms 
(main bedroom, bathroom,  lounge, dining room, and kitchen) and stairs/landing  upon 
receipt of a revised quote from Mrs C;
Mrs C should provide a quote  for the unpacking  of her contents;
All the contents  items  had been  settled from the Beyond  Economic  Repair list and 
nothing remained outstanding;
It would  supply a fridge and cooker  to Mrs C once the payment it had made for these 
items was refunded.
Covea said it advised Mrs C in March 2018  that it could pay her plumber directly, and it also 
offered to send out a tradesman  to repair the leak in May 2018,  but Mrs C had declined this. 
Covea added it had also offered on a number of occasions to send  its own tradesmen out to 
Ref: DRN482121911investigate the cause of damage  in each of the affected rooms,  but this was also declined by 
Mrs C.
With regard to the delays around repairing the central heating,  Covea said it had first been  
made aware  there was no heating in the property in May 2018, and it wasnt until July 2018 
that Mrs C made reference  to having the heating repaired. Covea added  it took a further five 
months for Mrs C to provide a cause  of damage for the heating and as such  it wasnt  
responsible for the delays.
Concerning the wider  delays during the claim, Covea  appreciated  Mrs Cs health conditions,  
and said it had tried whole heartedly to assist on this case but had always  been met with 
refusal. So overall, Covea  didnt think any compensation payment was warranted for the 
delays as it said it wasnt accountable for the barriers that had been  put in place.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint, and Ill now comment on the responses  made by both parties. 
Additional water damage
Ive considered the loss adjusters reports again which  clearly  show  water  damage to five 
rooms. Covea has offered  to cover the cost of the carpets in these rooms so the only issue  
which remains outstanding is the plastering and redecorating of the rooms.
As theres  no new evidence for me to consider regarding  the cause of damage to each room, 
I maintain the conclusions  reached  in my provisional decision about the damage Covea is 
liable for.
Ive considered the plastering quote provided  by Mrs C to determine a fair settlement. The 
quote provided is from November 2019  and appears to show a full strip out and plastering of 
the rooms quoted for. Based on the scope of works Ive seen already, Im not satisfied  that 
all of the work being quoted for is necessary for an effective and lasting repair.
However, there are other factors to consider here. Covea has already settled for two of the 
rooms on the quote,  but the payment still needs  to reflect the amount it will cost Mrs C to get 
the work  done.  It also needs to take into account the damage that has already been scoped  
for and may have  happened since, as the claim is yet to be settled. Finally, our services 
approach is that repairs for any uninsured damage, which are required  for an effective and 
lasting repair  overall would also be included in this settlement.
I believe it is in both parties interests  here for the outstanding  aspects of the claim to be 
settled promptly. So taking all of the above  into account, I will require Covea to pay a 
settlement for plastering and redecorating at 80% of the quoted costs for the five rooms 
affected (bathroom,  bedroom, dining room, lounge, and kitchen), less any monies it has 
already paid for these rooms.
Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance payments
Covea has agreed  to pay Mrs C a disturbance allowance (DA) of £15 per day from the 
period it withdrew  the DA to the period she moved back  into the property. But Covea hasnt 
Ref: DRN482121912commented on my finding that it should also increase  Mrs Cs DA to £15 per day for the 
entire period she was in alternative  accommodation. There is still a period outstanding where 
Covea reduced  Mrs Cs DA to £5 per day and as I set out in my provisional decision,  I dont 
think this fairly took into account Mrs Cs living  arrangements and the requirement to eat in a 
hotel.
As there is no new evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I will require Covea to make a further  payment  to ensure Mrs Cs DA 
is equal to £15 per day for the entire time she was in alternative  accommodation.  
Contents claim
Covea had again said the contents claim has been  settled in full without providing our 
service with the evidence  to support  this statement. Mrs C maintains her position that the 
claim hasnt  been  fully settled. As such I see no reason to depart from my provisional  
findings here. In addition,  as Covea hasnt been able to show our service  the item list which  
has been settled,  I will require Covea  to demonstrate to Mrs C that each item claimed for 
under the contents has been accounted  for and settled.
Return of contents/damaged items
Ive considered Mrs Cs testimony  here and I understand why she feels very strongly about 
this matter. Ive reconsidered the photographs and the reports from when Mrs Cs items 
were removed from the property. Having done so, I see no reason to change the outcome 
reached in my provisional decision. So I wont be requiring Covea  to do anything  further  in 
relation to this part of the claim.
Compensation
Covea has said it offered to pay Mrs Cs plumber direct so she could get the leak fixed  
quicker and mitigate  the water damage. It also said it offered to send its own contractors to 
the property to further understand  the cause of damage in the affected areas, but this was 
refused.
Ive reconsidered  the contact history  between Covea and Mrs C, and I accept it offered to 
consider the plumber costs if Mrs C provided proof of the repair  around March  2018. But in 
the report provided by CD in May 2018,  Mrs C is told it cannot consider the costs of repairing 
the pipe, and that she will need to source this herself directly. So at the very least  Mrs C was 
given contradicting information here about  what Covea would consider. 
Covea also said it took a number of months for Mrs C to provide a cause  of damage to the 
heating system so it cant be held responsible for the delays here. But I dont  agree. The 
evidence shows the initial cause of damage  was thought to be water in the central heating 
system. And Coveas own contact  notes show it called the heating  engineer  directly  to 
confirm the cause of damage in April 2019,  and it was told the same thing. So I still dont 
understand why Covea  couldnt have done  this much earlier to move  the claim forward. 
Instead, it seems more onus was placed  on Mrs C to evidence this and other  aspects of the 
claim  and I dont think this was fair because of her vulnerable state.
Covea has indicated the main cause of delays was due to Mrs C being  disruptive and Ive no 
doubt this was a difficult  claim to manage. But ultimately Covea as the insurer is the expert 
Ref: DRN482121913in dealing with claims, and Ive identified a number of areas  in my provisional decision where 
it couldve got involved to move things forward. 
Having considered all the evidence from both parties, there are versions of events which 
contradict, but for the reasons Ive already  set out in my provisional decision, I cant accept  
Coveas argument  that the delays were solely down to Mrs C being  disruptive. Ultimately 
Covea accepted the claim and could have acted in a more pragmatic way to move parts  of 
the claim forward but didnt. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs comments about  my compensation award. Having reconsidered all 
of the evidence, Ive not seen anything to change  my mind,  so I will require Covea to 
compensate Mrs C for the distress and inconvenience caused as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Increase its cash settlement to include the repairs required to all five rooms  caused
by water damage from the burst pipe. This amount must reflect  the cost to Mrs C to
complete the reinstatement works and be calculated from the quotation provided by
Mrs C for the carpet/flooring  and 80% of the plastering/decorating quoted in the five 
damaged rooms;
Pay interest on this amount  at 8% simple  per year from the date of loss to the date of
settlement;
Increase Mrs Cs disturbance allowance  payment to £15 per day for the entire period
she was in alternative accommodation  (5 March 2018 to 26 October 2018) and pay 
Mrs C the difference;
Provide Mrs C with the full list of items settled under the contents  claim.  If any items 
are found to be outstanding from the list, Covea  must settle any remaining items as 
beyond economical  repair, plus 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement; 
Pay for a professional  unpacking service to unpack Mrs Cs contents subject to an
acceptable quote provided  by Mrs C;
Provide Mrs C with a new fridge and cooker at an appointed contractor rate. 
Covea can deduct  this cost from the compensation figure below;
Pay Mrs C £2,500  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4821219