K821x#15complaint
Mr T says that Madison CF UK Limited,  trading as 118 118 Money,  acted irresponsibly when 
it lent him money.
background
In February 2016,  118 118 Money lent Mr T £1,000.  Mr T agreed to repay this loan with 
interest over a term of 24 months. The monthly instalments were  £78.71,  and so Mr T would 
repay £1,889.04 in total if he made each of these payments  when they were due. 
Mr T didnt  think  it was responsible of 118 118 Money to lend him this money. He doesnt 
think that the repayments were affordable given his income and other debt at the time  and 
says that the repayments to this new loan meant  he had difficulties paying  other  important 
bills. 
Our adjudicator looked at this and didnt think 118 118 Money should have lent to Mr T.
118 118 Money didnt respond. Mr T says he agrees with the redress  proposed  by the 
adjudicator.
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice and what  I consider to have  been good industry practice at the time.
In this case the applicable  rules  were set out in the Financial  Conduct Authoritys handbook 
at CONC.
118 118 Money was entering a regulated credit agreement. So it had to undertake  an 
assessment of Mr Ts creditworthiness.
It needed to consider the potential for the commitments under the new loan to adversely 
impact Mr Ts financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which he was aware  
at the time the credit agreement  was to be made. It also needed to consider whether  Mr T 
could make the repayments as they fell due over the life of the agreement.
The rules  didnt set out the checks that 118 118 Money needed to carry out in every case. 
The extent  and scope  of the checks instead depended on and needed to be proportionate  to 
a number of factors,  which  might include the type and amount  of credit,  how much it cost,  
and Mr Ts circumstances  at the time.
Checks had to go beyond  just whether Mr T could afford to repay  the credit. 118 118 Money 
needed to take reasonable steps  to assess Mr Ts ability  to meet  repayments  under the 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN41204262This meant Mr T should be able to make  the payments  under  this agreement without undue  
difficulties, in particular,  on time while meeting his other reasonable commitments and 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. Its also important that Mr T could make  
the payments  over the life of the agreement, and out of income and savings  without having  
to realise security or assets.
Ive kept that in mind when looking at Mr Ts complaint.
As I see it, the main  questions I need  to consider  are:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mr T would be able to repay this new loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr T 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in any other way?
Ive first considered whether 118 118 Money  completed reasonable and proportionate  
checks to satisfy itself Mr T would be able to repay  this new loan in a sustainable way. Given  
what Ive already said, Id expect checks to be more thorough: 
The lower the customers income, as it might be harder to make  any loan 
repayments;
The more to be repaid  as it might be more difficult to make a higher repayment  
from a particular level of income;
The longer  the term of the loan  as the loan may cost more  in total and the customer 
needs to make the payments for a longer period;
The greater the number and frequency that the customer  had been  given  loans  as 
repeated refinancing  might signal that borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable.
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should have been for a given loan application   such as indications of borrower  vulnerability  
and foreseeable  changes  in future  circumstances.  Ive thought  about the relevant factors in 
this case.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr T initially applied  for a loan of £2,000.  He told 118 118 Money 
he earned £1,500 a month, and had outgoings of around £470.
To verify this, 118 118 obtained  a report from a credit reference agency. Ive seen a copy  of 
this report. I see it said Mr T had existing borrowing of around £6,900. This included £1,954 
of credit card and other  revolving debt  which meant that Mr T had exceeded his credit limit 
of £1,900. Mr T had 10 active  open  accounts  and the file showed a couple of defaults  
registered against closed accounts  around two years previously.
It appears 118 118 Money had concerns based on the information in the credit report. So it 
asked Mr T to provide  proof of identity  and two months of bank statements. Mr T has 
provided copies  of his bank  statements, and I think this is likely to reflect the information  
seen by 118 118 Money. This would have  allowed  118 118 Money  to check  what Mr T had 
said about his income  and outgoings  in more detail.
Ref: DRN41204263For these reasons, I think the checks 118 118 Money carried  out were  reasonable and 
proportionate. Having identified concerns based on the credit file, it obtained more detailed 
information about Mr Ts financial circumstances. 
So Ive gone  on to think about whether the decision to lend was a fair one. I dont think it 
was.
First, I note that the information shown on Mr Ts bank statements and credit report wasnt  
consistent with what Mr T had entered on his application. Mr Ts bank statements show  he 
was paid around £1,250  each month by his employer. This is £250 less than what  he said he 
earned in his application.
Mr T was also paying more towards  his existing debts than he entered  in his application. On 
his application,  Mr T said he paid £50 towards credit cards, and £80 to other loans. But the 
credit report  showed payments towards Mr Ts cards  were closer to £80 a month  and the 
payments to his other loans came  close  to £700. Allowing for the other  spending shown on 
his application,  this would have left Mr T with just £130 in disposable income, before taking 
into account this new loan. The loan purpose was recorded as other   so there was no 
indication Mr T was consolidating his existing liabilities, just increasing  them.
But in practice,  it looks  as though Mr T didnt have a disposable  income  at all. I see that the 
credit report  and statements suggest that Mr T was in fact relying on short  term lending  to 
meet his existing credit  commitments.  The credit  report showed five open loans or short term 
advances against  income, all of which had been  open for three months  or less. The 
statements show short  term loans being  drawn down and repaid. 
Mr T was also heavily  reliant on his large  overdraft: he was often at or close to his overdraft 
limit of £1,600 on the day before he was paid. Even after being paid, he was between £300 
and £400 overdrawn. And I see Mr T needed to take additional borrowing during the month  
to meet  his existing  commitments without exceeding his overdraft  limit.
Given the information 118 118 Money had at the time, I think there  was a real prospect  that 
Mr T would need to borrow again to afford  this new credit commitment.  Given  that he 
seemed to rely on short term loans to stop him exceeding his credit limit, I think  it was likely 
hed need to so again. For these reasons, I dont think  118 118 Money should have lent.
putting things right
118 118 Money shouldnt have lent Mr T the money. I understand there may be an 
outstanding balance, and that 118 118 Money  has sold the debt. 118 118 Money should buy 
back the debt if it is able to. If it is not able to, it should arrange the equivalent  of the below 
with the third party purchaser.
118 118 Money should then:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the loan, and treat all payments  Mr T has 
made so far as repayments of the capital;
If this means Mr T has now paid more towards  this debt than he originally borrowed, 
118 118 Money should refund these  overpayments,  plus interest  the rate is 8% per 
year  from the date Mr T made each additional payment until he gets it back*;
If Mr T has not repaid  the amount he borrowed,  118 118 Money should agree an 
affordable payment  plan for him to repay this.
Ref: DRN41204264118 118 Money should remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ts 
credit record.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct  tax from this interest. It 
should send Mr T a certificate  showing how it has done this if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. I direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Rebecca Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120426