K822xcomplaint
Mr C has said that an employee  of Redmayne-Bentley LLP advised him to transfer the 
value of his occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits to a new Self-invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP). Mr C states that he invested the transfer value  in shares  on the advice of 
the employee of Redmayne-Bentley LLP. Mr C states that he has lost out as a result.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued on 
1 May 2019.  In this I stated that I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct  that 
Redmayne-Bentley LLP should carry out a pension review calculation using the latest 
methodology and assumptions that have  been set down by the regulator.
I directed that if this calculation showed that a loss had arisen that redress should be paid in 
line with the guidance. A copy of my Provisional Decision is attached to, and forms part of, 
this my final decision.
Redmayne-Bentley initially  asked if it would be possible to find out whether Mr Cs deferred  
benefits could  be reinstated in his former employers OPS. The business also asked how it 
should go about contacting the Department  for Work  and Pensions to get the required 
detailed information  on Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  
Scheme (SERPS).
Mr C also raised  a number of questions about the date and the value of his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  that were  to be used in the redress calculation.
On 31 May 2019 the business  wrote  to this service  saying  that they now disagreed  with the 
Provisional Decision that I had issued. It argued  that:
Redmayne-Bentley has never  had regulatory  permission to offer advice on pension 
transfers or opt-outs.
Mr C and his introducer are expected to make truthful statements  when  they say that 
the transfer is not coming from a final salary  scheme. Redmayne-Bentley does not 
take responsibility for these transfers and does not have in place  any processes to 
check the veracity of an applicants application  form.
The offer that they had made to pay £30,000 to Mr C was an attempt to resolve the 
issue and was not intended  to provide  actuarially  calculated compensation for Mr C. 
There were  multiple inconsistencies  and contradictions in Mr Cs statement and 
arguments which it believes cast serious doubt on Mr Cs version of events.
It was told that the transfer was not from a final salary OPS  and it had accepted  that 
statement. It is the responsibility of the client to make sure that the information given 
on the application form is correct.
Redmayne-Bentley does not advise  on final salary OPS transfers and does not have 
the expertise to do so. This would include determining  the critical yield on the transfer 
(this is the rate of return that the transfer  value must  achieve after transfer to provide 
benefits of equivalent  value to the OPS benefits at normal retirement age).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40712002Redmayne-Bentley offers a low cost SIPP product where it is clear that the application  form 
states that it will not accept transfers  from final salary OPS.  This is because of the 
complexities involved when dealing  with final salary transfers. Redmayne-Bentley will 
however accept transfers into its SIPP  from money  purchase company pension 
arrangements or from personal pension arrangements.
If the forms had been completed correctly and had been  reviewed by Redmayne-Bentley it 
would have realised  that the transfer value on offer was coming from a large United Kingdom 
based company  and the business should  have checked whether the scheme was a final 
salary scheme or not before accepting the transfer.
It is apparent in this case that Mr C was not a pension expert and he had little idea of what 
type of pension scheme his former  employer  had been providing. I do not think  that in the 
circumstances Redmayne-Bentley can rely on an individual  such as Mr C to be aware  what  
type of OPS the former employer  arranged  for its staff. 
It is clear that Redmayne-Bentley was aware  that if the transfer  was coming from a final 
salary OPS that it would  not accept the transfer  value on offer on an execution  only basis. 
Given this position  I consider  that it should have checked the application forms that it 
received when setting  up a new SIPP arrangement. If there was the smallest  chance that the 
transfer was coming  from a final salary OPS then in my opinion  it should have investigated 
the matter before accepting the transfer.
In Mr Cs case Redmayne-Bentley  did receive the application form to transfer  from the OPS  
to the SIPP  and it was aware  where  the funds were coming from. As the former employer 
was a large UK based employer, in my opinion, it should have checked whether it could 
accept the transfer  or not. I consider  that any pension administrator should have verified that 
the transfer was coming from a money  purchase arrangement. In this case  a telephone call 
to the OPS administrator would have told Redmayne-Bentley that the transfer was coming  
from a final salary pension scheme.
I have then considered  what Redmayne-Bentley should have done. In my opinion it should 
have declined to accept the transfer in which case Mr C would have retained his deferred  
benefits in the OPS.
I note that there is no clear written evidence that the advice to transfer  the value of the OPS 
benefits to a SIPP with Redmayne-Bentley came from an employee of Redmayne-Bentley.  
However, in my opinion,  on the balance of probabilities it did. There is no evidence  that Mr C 
was an investment expert and that he was coming up with the proposed investments by 
himself. I consider that Mr C is more  likely  than not to be telling the truth when he states that 
he was indeed provided with a list of suitable investments and he followed the advice that he 
believed that he had been given  by the business representative. 
I am therefore still of the opinion that Mr C was advised by the employee of Redmayne-
Bentley who he had met to transfer  the value of his OPS benefits to a new SIPP.
But I do not think this decision  turns  on that point. It seems likely Mr C would have thought 
any advice being  given to him by the adviser was on an informal  basis,  as a friend and his 
submissions to us support  this view. But Redmayne-Bentley should still have noticed  that the 
OPS transfer was coming from a large, well-known business and there was a reasonable 
Ref: DRN40712003possibility the transfer was from a final salary scheme. If it had noticed, it would not have 
transacted the business, since it said it did not have permission  to advise on pension  
transfers and opt outs. 
If it had been able to advise, or if Mr C had gone elsewhere, I dont think its likely he would  
have transferred either.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has asked independent actuaries to determine the 
critical yield in Mr Cs case and this shows that a return  of over 9% would be required to 
match the benefits that were being given up on transfer. If hed gone  to another business  
advice should  have been not to transfer, as the required rate of return to be better  off was far 
too high. 
I have then considered  whether Mr C would have accepted  the advice if he had been told 
not to transfer  by another business. In other words I have considered whether Mr C would 
have simply gone  ahead with the transfer  through another  business.  I dont  think  its likely he 
would have done. There is little evidence he had much experience of pensions or 
investments. It appears his reason for transferring was because  of the informal  advice from 
the employee of Redmayne-Bentley, who he had met socially. I have seen no evidence  that 
Mr C had detailed knowledge  of the risks that he was running by investing in a number of 
small companies. If he had gone to a different business to seek advice, it seems likely it 
would have advised him not to transfer, given the risks and the high critical yield required. In 
the face of that advice, it seems unlikely  Mr C would  have transferred to a SIPP  through 
another business unconnected  with his friend.
I therefore have  not been  persuaded to change the conclusion that I reached in my 
provisional decision that this complaint should be upheld.
I have also considered again  the argument  that has been put forward  by Redmayne-Bentley  
that at the time that their former  adviser had left the business that the value of the SIPP  was 
greater than the amount transferred in and that there was then no loss and no redress  is due 
from Redmayne-Bentley.  
I do not agree with this argument  because  whilst  the value of the SIPP  had not fallen the 
value of the deferred benefits that Mr C had given  up had increased in value following the fall 
in annuity rates. The value of Mr Cs deferred benefits would have increased significantly 
due to the lower  interest rates and increases in life expectancy if he had not transferred to 
the SIPP.
I have also considered the fact that after his contact left Redmayne-Bentley that Mr C 
continued to carry  out transactions on his SIPP.  It is not clear  whether these transactions 
were suggested by the former adviser during telephone calls or if they were  actioned by       
Mr C based on the discussions that he had had with the adviser before he left. However as 
there is no evidence  that Mr C received any investment advice from a new adviser I have to 
assume that Mr C was relying on discussions that he had with the former employee of 
Redmayne-Bentley when taking the investment decisions that he did.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Redmayne-Bentley. I direct  that Redmayne-Bentley LLP carry 
out a redress calculation in line with the pension redress methodology as amended by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
Ref: DRN40712004This calculation should  be carried out as soon as possible using the most recent financial 
assumptions published (at the date of my final decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly  
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my final decision.
Redmayne-Bentley LLP may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  
or S2P). These details  should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on 
Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Redmayne-Bentley may if it wishes use the current transfer value of the assets in the SIPP 
as at the date of calculation in the redress calculation. Alternatively it can choose to use a 
notional transfer  value on the assumption  that the shares in the SIPP were sold on 1 March
2011 (after the initial  adviser  had left Redmayne-Bentley) and then reinvested in an index.
In my opinion  Mr C who had no assets  and no knowledge of pensions or investments would 
have been assessed as having a cautious  attitude to risk at that time and the use of the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Conservative Total Return Index would have been determined  as 
being appropriate. When determining the notional value of the SIPP  in the redress 
calculation appropriate  allowance  should be made for any payments into or out of the SIPP.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise  have  been  paid. For example, if Mr C has yet to take 
a tax-free cash sum from the occupational scheme,  25% of the loss would be tax-free and
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the future  loss 
adequately reflects  this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr C 
within 90 days of the date Redmayne-Bentley LLP receives notification of his acceptance 
of my final decision. Further interest must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate 
of 8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Redmayne-Bentley LLP to pay Mr C this 
compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period  in which interest  wont apply.
Finally appropriate  allowance  should be made to any redress sum determined  above for any 
sums that Mr C receives  (or has received) from any other  business.
Ref: DRN40712005Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN40712006Copy of Provisional Decision issued on 1 May 2019
 
complaint
Mr C has said that an employee  of Redmayne-Bentley LLP advised him to transfer the 
value of his occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits to a new Self-invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP). Mr C states that he invested the transfer value  in shares  on the advice of 
the employee of Redmayne-Bentley LLP. Mr C states that he has lost out as a result.
background
Mr C had been a member of his former employers final salary  scheme  for over 12 years
until he was made redundant in 2005.  The employer  would have been very well known  to 
all the parties involved  in this complaint.
In 2010 Mr C met a friend who was an adviser from Redmayne-Bentley. Mr C had deferred 
pension benefits  in a former employers  OPS  for which a transfer value of over £37,000 
was being offered by the trustees. Mr C noted  from his conversations with the employee  of 
Redmayne-Bentley how successful the adviser was with his investments and states that he 
was persuaded  to transfer the value of the OPS  benefits to a SIPP  by his friend. The aim 
was to enhance the pension benefits  that Mr C would  get on retirement.
Mr C signed an application form to transfer the value  of his OPS  benefits into a SIPP.  The 
application form was supplied by Mr Cs friend.  The SIPP  application form had 
Redmayne-Bentleys name on it.
The SIPP product application form set out that if the transfer was coming from an OPS 
that advice was required from a pension transfer  specialist. This was in line with the UK 
legislative requirements.
Mr C says that he asked  the employee  what he should do with the value of his deferred 
pension benefits.  The employee suggested Mr C transfer the value of his benefits to a 
SIPP for him to look after with Redmayne-Bentley  as he would be able to make more 
money. Mr C followed  this advice.
Mr C says that the employee  of Redmayne-Bentley  would then produce  a list of stocks to 
buy, which mirrored his own investments, and Mr C would follow  this advice and would 
then place the instructions to buy and sell through Redmayne-Bentley.
Mr C states that everything  was done on an informal basis. The employee would tell him 
what documents to sign and he would do so. When the employee  left Redmayne-Bentley, 
Mr C still had a list with some suggested  investments  so he placed  some orders himself.
On the other hand, Redmayne-Bentley does not accept its former employee gave advice. It 
argues that there is no evidence he gave advice. Indeed it notes on the application form that 
Mr C confirmed that he had not received advice.
Mr C has now complained  that his SIPP has now lost money as the selected investments 
have performed poorly. Mr C is also unhappy  that by transferring he has lost the guaranteed 
benefits provided by the OPS.
RedmayneBentley investigated the complaint  but did not uphold  it. It considered  that there 
Ref: DRN40712007was no evidence the adviser gave  advice and Mr C had confirmed on the application form 
that he had not received advice.
Mr C then complained  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and concluded that, on the balance of 
probabilities, what  Mr C has told us was probably what happened.  The adjudicator said that 
in his view:
Mr C did not have  sufficient pension knowledge to make  his own decisions. It is 
unlikely Mr C would have  researched  and then transferred the value of the OPS  
benefits into a RedmayneBentley SIPP on his own.
The fact that Mr C transferred into a SIPP connected with Redmayne-Bentley shows 
that it is likely  the employee  discussed  the transfer with Mr C and suggested  that he 
transfer to the Redmayne Bentley  SIPP.
The employee held a CF30 approved controlled function at the time.  This allowed 
him to offer pension transfer  advice. He knew what was required from a regulatory 
viewpoint. So, even if discussions had taken  place  on an informal  basis, he should 
have told Mr C to seek formal  financial advice.
Based  on the above, it is more likely than not that the employee of Redmayne
Bentley did facilitate the transfer from the OPS to the SIPP.
Redmayne-Bentley did not agree with the adjudicator. It said:
The application form asked if the source  of the pension transfer was a final salary 
scheme. Mr C had answered No. Redmayne-Bentley was in no position to 
question his answer. As the transfer-in  was received by them as a cash  payment, it 
had no way of knowing this sum came from a final salary scheme.
Mr C also ticked a box to say he had not received advice from an adviser  regarding  
the pension transfer.
Even though  the employee  had a CF30 approved  control function, Redmayne-
Bentley did not have  this permission. As such,  the employee  was not permitted to 
give pension transfer advice.
It is important to note that in 2006  Mr C had, on the advice of the employee, opened
a nominee account  with Redmayne-Bentley with money that he had borrowed from 
a bank. A number of shares  were bought through that account,  with many making 
big losses. If Mr C had received advice on those investments  from the employee it is 
difficult to believe  Mr C would  have continued to act on advice from the employee.
It does not believe Mr C has been  telling the truth. Mr C claimed to have formed a 
friendship with the employee over an 18-month  period. Yet, there is a five-year  
gap between opening his dealing account and the transfer taking  place in 2010.
The employee left Redmayne-Bentley in January 2011 and started working  for 
another company towards the end of that month. Mr C said that he only made  
one purchase after the employee left. However, the business  noted that since  the 
Ref: DRN40712008employee had left a total of around 10 purchases and 20 sales  had been made.
Redmayne-Bentley has a strict policy of only accepting instructions  from the 
account holder.  As Mr C was the account  holder  and the one giving the instructions, 
Redmayne-Bentley is not responsible for Mr Cs losses.
The employee was an investment  manager. It would not have been to his 
advantage to offer his services for free. If he was advising Mr C then he would have 
tried to persuade  him to become  an advisory client after which  he would have  
received a payment for his services.
Mr C said:
The employee was 100%  in control  of his accounts and told him that this was why 
the charges were  so high. The employee told Mr C that his investments mirrored 
his own. He called the employee at his work  a few times about his pension.  There  
were also house visits  to show  Mr C how to start the transfer  process.
It was the employee who completed  the application form. Mr C had no idea what  
his pension was. The employee was the only person to advise him.
Mr C has also provided the following information:
A text message from the employee,  dated 1 December 2010 which said Not  sure 
if I will make it to the office tomorrow but will be up bright and early. If I cant  get in 
call the above  number and quote your account number and place  your orders. Amer
were up nicely I think. Drilling soon should give an opp to sell a few at a higher 
level in the next month or two.
A text message exchange  between Mr C and the ex-employee on 23 February 2011.
In this Mr C asked the ex-employee about  another company called (X), as things 
did not seem  to be going well. The ex-employee replied  I would  say that it is a 
buying opportunity.  Unbelievable share price movements. As far as I am aware 
nothing is wrong  and everything remains  very much on track.
The adjudicator presented  this new information to Redmayne-Bentley. He said that in his 
view it showed the ex-employee had given investment  advice to Mr C and that it seems  
he was involved with the trades  in his SIPP.
Even though  it did not accept any liability, Redmayne-Bentley then made  an offer to Mr C of
£30,000 in order  to resolve the complaint. 
Redmayne-Bentley has commented:
There is no evidence to support the adjudicators conclusion that the employee 
advised Mr C to transfer the value of his final salary pension benefits to a SIPP.
It relies on its clients integrity  when they fill out application forms, especially when 
they say that the transfer  is not from a final salary  scheme. If other parties  are given 
discretion for not picking  up the fact that this was a final salary  transfer,  it would  
expect to also be offered  the same  discretion.
Ref: DRN40712009Mr C confirmed that he had read the terms and conditions. This clearly  stated  that 
Redmayne-Bentley was not authorised  to give any pension advice. It directed clients 
to seek independent financial advice if they wished  to discuss the suitability of the 
product. The last page of the agreement said that it was a serious offence to make  
false statements; the penalties  are severe  and could  lead to prosecution. Mr C has 
made false  statements by ticking No  to both boxes.
When the SIPP account was opened, the employee was out of office due to an 
ongoing health  issue. Furthermore, the majority of deals put through were  made  
while the employee  was on annual leave.
When the employee left the company the SIPP had increased in value by almost
  10%.
The text messages submitted show that Mr Cs integrity is in question. He had 
previously said that he had to find out from the employees  colleagues that he had 
moved a long way away. But the text messages show  he was in contact with the 
employee already.
As agreement has not been  reached  the case has been referred  to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was not a pension specialist and was relying  on the employee of Redmayne-Bentley 
for advice on what to do with his deferred pension benefits. Mr C has told the Financial 
Ombudsman Service that he has no educational  qualifications and no experience of 
investing in stocks and shares. He stated  that he had no idea how the OPS of his former 
employer operated and had approached the employee of Redmayne-Bentley for advice. 
Mr C has also told this service that he has no savings.
There is no evidence that Mr C would have  had the pension knowledge to transfer the value 
of his deferred benefits to a new SIPP. I therefore  am minded to agree that the employee of 
Redmayne-Bentley was indeed involved in arranging the setting  up of the SIPP  and had 
assisted Mr C in completing the application  forms.
The SIPP application form stated that, if the transfer  was coming from a final salary OPS, 
advice was required. Redmayne Bentley did not provide advice  on pension transfers and 
if the transfer was coming from a final salary scheme  Mr C would have been required to go 
to a qualified adviser.
If Redmayne-Bentley had looked  at the transfer  papers  that had been provided to Mr C 
by the OPS administrator it would have realised  that the transfer was in fact coming  from 
a large well known  employer which had a final salary scheme.  In my opinion  it should 
have contacted the OPS administrator and verify  whether or not the OPS  was a final 
salary scheme. Had it done so it would have been told that the OPS was a final salary  
scheme and that there  was a need  for Mr C to get advice from a specialist adviser.
On finding  out that Mr C had received no advice the business should not have accepted  
Ref: DRN407120010the final salary transfer. Mr C would then have retained his deferred  pension benefits in the 
scheme.
When considering  pension transfers  it is important  to look at the critical yield to determine  
how risky the transfer actually is. The critical yield is the rate of return that the transfer value  
will have to grow at after transfer to provide a fund equivalent  to the value of the benefits 
that have been given  up in the former scheme.
The more  generous the transfer the lower the critical yield required and the greater is the 
chance that on retirement the benefits after transfer  will exceed  the value of the benefits  
that have been given  up.
In this case there is no evidence that the business investigated how risky the transfer was 
and the Financial Ombudsman Service has arranged for independent  experts to carry out 
the required calculations  on the assumptions  set down by the regulator.  The critical yield 
in this case was determined to be 9.4%.
If the business had considered the critical yield it would have realised that this was 
much higher  than the rate set down for businesses by the regulator to determine  
redress due where  misselling had arisen.  These rates of return  varied over time and 
over term to retirement and for this case the rate set down by the regulator  was 6.6%.
Therefore the business should  have  realised that the transfer value offered was low and 
the advice should have  been dont transfer  as there  was a significant  risk that Mr C would  
be worse off on retirement after transfer.
At the time the business  should also have noted that pension  providers  were  required to 
issue illustrations of projected benefits on three assumed rates of growth. These  were  
5%, 7% and 9%. Therefore the required rate of return  to just match  the benefits being  
given up in the OPS was in excess of the highest  assumed  rate of growth and the advice 
should have been not to transfer.
Had Mr C been told not to transfer  by the business in my opinion  he would have 
accepted that advice.  I have seen no evidence to suggest that Mr C would have 
transferred against  the advice of a specialist pension adviser.
I do not agree that Redmayne-Bentley can accept an application form as being  completed 
correctly by a non-pension expert  when it was patently incorrect.  In my opinion in 2010 
most pension professionals would have been  aware that Mr Cs former employer had a 
final salary pension scheme.
I am therefore minded  to uphold this complaint as I consider that the advice should 
have been not to transfer without  receiving proper advice and that if that advice had 
been received Mr C would have  been  told not to transfer. I have no reason to think that 
that Mr C would  not have followed the advice  that he received.
Redres
s
I have then considered how to determine  redress. In cases where a pension transfer 
has been mis-sold the regulator has set down the methods and assumptions to use 
when determining the level of redress.
Ref: DRN407120011In cases such  as this a business may allow  for the fact that Mr C should  have  sought  out a 
new adviser when  the original adviser  moved north.  The business  may use the actual 
transfer value  of the investments held in the transfer  policy or use a notional transfer value 
if this felt to be more appropriate.
In this case I consider that after the adviser  had left the business in January 2011  and 
moved away Mr C should  have taken some  action to find a new adviser.  I do not consider 
that it was reasonable for Mr C to continue to claim that he was relying  on a list of potential  
investment opportunities that he states  that he was given by the ex-employee  of 
Redmayne-Bentley before he moved.  The investments that had been  made  by Mr C were  
in relatively small companies  where the prospects  and share  prices  could change quickly 
and significantly.
Mr C should have realised  that as a non-investment  expert he needed  a new adviser 
when his friend moved away. I consider that if Mr C had approached  a regulated 
independent financial  adviser he would have been advised that the shares that he was 
invested in were high risk and highly volatile and that they should  all be sold.
Mr C should then have  been advised to reinvest his pension funds in a balanced managed 
fund. As I do not know where Mr C would have invested his funds I consider  that the use 
of FTSE UK Private Investor Conservative  Total Return Index  would be appropriate to 
determine a notional fund value as at the date of calculation.
Whilst I accept that Mr C had text message correspondence with the adviser  in February
2011 there has been no other evidence of correspondence between Mr C and the 
ex- employee.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  the complaint, and that a fair and reasonable
outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible,  into the position he 
would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Redmayne-Bentley LLP must undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension 
redress methodology as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 
2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision,  and using the 
most recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision).  In accordance  
with the regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance  of my final decision.
Redmayne-Bentley LLP may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in 
the calculation,  which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme 
on
Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Redmayne-Bentley may if it wishes use the current transfer value of the assets in the SIPP 
as at the date of calculation in the redress calculation. Alternatively it can choose to use a 
Ref: DRN407120012notional transfer  value on the assumption  that the shares in the SIPP were sold on 1 March
2011 (after the initial  adviser  had left Redmayne-Bentley) and then reinvested in an index.
In my opinion  Mr C who had no assets  and no knowledge of pensions or investments would 
have been assessed as having a cautious  attitude to risk at that time and the use of the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Conservative Total Return Index would have been determined  as 
being appropriate. When determining the notional value of the SIPP  in the redress 
calculation appropriate  allowance  should be made for any payments into or out of the SIPP.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise  have  been  paid. For example, if Mr C has yet to take 
a tax-free cash sum from the occupational scheme,  25% of the loss would be tax-free and
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the future  loss 
adequately reflects  this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr C 
within 90 days of the date Redmayne-Bentley  LLP receives notification  of his acceptance 
of my final decision. Further interest  must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate 
of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes  Redmayne-Bentley LLP to pay Mr C this 
compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period  in which interest  wont apply.
Finally appropriate  allowance  should be made to any redress sum determined  above for any 
sums that Mr C receives  (or has received) from any other  business.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4071200