K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complained  that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt give her the right 
mortgage advice.  As a result, shes  having to pay significantly more.
background
Mrs W was an existing Halifax mortgage customer.  In summer 2017, she moved home.  She 
had a very good interest rate on her previous mortgage and transferred (ported) this to her 
new property. The amount she decided to borrow on her new mortgage was significantly 
less than shed  had before.
After the mortgage  completed, Mrs W told Halifax she wanted to borrow  more for home 
improvements. But Halifaxs policy was that no-one could have a further advance within six 
months of completion, so it refused. 
Theres a disagreement  about what was said between Mrs W and Halifaxs  adviser at that 
point. 
Mrs Ws version is that the adviser told her she could apply for a Halifax  loan instead.  But 
Mrs W had said she had a number of credit cards with a 0% interest rate, and told the 
adviser shed use these instead.
 
Halifaxs advisers version is that Mrs W hadnt mentioned any credit  card debt.
In early 2018, Mrs W applied to Halifax for a £62,000 further advance.  She said £13,300 was 
for debt consolidation and £48,700  for home improvements.
Halifax refused Mrs Ws further advance application. It said the total debt Mrs W would have 
would be unaffordable.
Mrs W complained,  saying:
-she hadnt ported the whole balance of her previous mortgage, so she believed she 
was still eligible to have  the rest of this;
-she was unhappy  that shed had to wait six months after completion before applying  
for a further advance;
-shed accumulated significant credit  card balances and was unhappy Halifax  wouldnt 
give her a further advance;
-she felt she should have been told that lending requests for further  advances  were 
restricted to a ten year term.
Halifax didnt uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. It explained that:
-customers with a portable rate can apply to take the rate with them  not the whole 
mortgage. The amount available on that rate is the balance at or near redemption of 
the existing mortgage.  Once  the new mortgage completes, borrowers are no longer 
eligible for the portable rate;
Ref: DRN43852972-Halifaxs policy that borrowers couldnt apply  for more money within  the first six 
months of a mortgage was because of anti-money laundering regulations, and to 
prevent properties  being used for business purposes.  It said its adviser had told Mrs 
W this;
-Mrs Ws application had been declined, and had been reviewed by a senior 
underwriter with the same  outcome. Although debt consolidation borrowing did have 
a maximum ten year term, this wasnt why Mrs Ws application had been refused. 
Halifax said the concerns were  about  overall affordability.
-at the time Mrs W had spoken  to the mortgage adviser, she hadnt  been completing 
an application. Halifax said it wouldnt have been  realistic  to expect the adviser to set 
out every  possible scenario around  further advances, when no application was being  
submitted at that time.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. She said that when shed applied for 
the significantly reduced mortgage,  Halifaxs adviser  hadnt warned her that she wouldnt be 
able to apply for more  within  the next six months,  or that her existing very good rate wouldnt 
apply. Nor had the adviser told her that for debt consolidation thered be a maximum 10 year 
term, or that there was no guarantee of acceptance.
Mrs W remained unhappy that her application had been rejected. She said her debts totalled 
£55,000 and her salary  was £59,000.  She wasnt happy with Halifaxs final response  letter  
which said that on the balance of probabilities Halifax didnt think the adviser wouldnt have 
told Mrs W to use her credit cards. Mrs W said the adviser had offered an unsecured  loan, 
but Mrs W had said shed  use credit  cards instead.
Mrs W said shed  been finding it difficult to find another mortgage lender, and her new 
payments would be significantly higher than with Halifax.  She also said that she was being 
charged large interest payments  on her credit cards.
Mrs W wants compensation  for the extra interest shell  be paying on her mortgage, plus 
interest on her credit cards. Shes calculated this as £3,040.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said there  are rules about responsible 
lending. Those rules say that, before lending, Halifax  had to check Mrs W could  afford to 
repay the mortgage and would be able to continue  to do so. The investigator  explained  that 
this would include looking  at Mrs Ws debt to income ratio.  She looked at Halifaxs files and 
the credit  searches it did on Mrs W. Having done  so, the investigator considered Halifax had 
acted fairly  and reasonably in declining to lend to Mrs W.
The investigator also looked at what had or hadnt been said about a ten year term for debt 
consolidation, when Mrs W had spoken  to the adviser. The investigator believed that 
discussing this would  have been  premature because Mrs W had to wait six months after 
completion anyway   and circumstances can change in six months.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the fundamental issue was that shed told the adviser she was 
going to borrow  on credit cards until the 6 months  had elapsed and she could then apply for 
a further advance. She didnt agree that discussion of the terms of further  advances  at that 
point would have  been premature. And she said that Halifax  couldnt be a responsible 
lender, when it knowingly allowed customers to take on huge amounts  of debt without any 
Ref: DRN43852973warning or advice. She said the adviser  should at least  have said that there wouldnt be a 
guarantee that she could have the further  advance in six months time.
The investigator said that it was reasonable to think  Mrs W would have known there was no 
guarantee of acceptance, because Halifax had just refused  Mrs Ws application  for a further   
advance within the first six months after completion. And having a conversation about debt 
to income ratio would  have been  premature because any application would have to be 
based on Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the actual application. This would include 
arrangements to pay off her credit cards debt  for example Mrs W had said her partner was 
paying off one of her debts.
Mrs W replied that the reason her first request for a further advance  had been  rejected was 
because of the standard rule about  no applications within  six months. She said her new 
mortgage had been just over a third of her previous mortgage, and her credit rating had 
been excellent, so it was reasonable  for her to have assumed the further advance would 
have been approved in six months time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered the different parts  of Mrs 
Ws complaint separately below.
When Mrs W took out the mortgage - not being warned that she couldnt  apply for more 
money within 6 months, and that her existing very good interest  rate wouldnt apply
All lenders need to take precautions  against  money laundering, and Halifaxs  rule that 
borrowers cant apply  for more money  within six months is a very common  policy  among 
lenders. I dont find Halifax was wrong to have this policy. 
Mrs W believes she should have been warned  about  the policy.  But Mrs W has told us that 
her circumstances changed, and that this was why she wanted  to apply for more funding. 
So, when first discussing her move with Halifax, Mrs W wouldnt have told the bank thats 
what shed want to do, because it wouldnt have been what  she planned  at the time.
I dont find that Halifax  had to warn  Mrs W about  every possible thing that might happen in 
future, and what the implications might be. Very many things can happen throughout the life 
of a mortgage, and it wouldnt be practical for the bank to have to raise all possible future 
scenarios.
Porting is where a lender allows a borrower  to take out a new mortgage  on their new 
property and port (transfer) the ongoing fixed, discounted or tracker rate product from the 
existing mortgage  to the new one. Mrs Ws previous mortgage had that facility. But this didnt 
mean that shed then be able to go back in time to the mortgage shed previously had, and 
take up more  of the sum shed previously  had. The porting facility  was a one-off opportunity 
to transfer the rate to a new property, not a binding commitment to let Mrs W borrow future 
funds at a previous rate, on an indefinite  basis. 
I realise that Mrs W may not previously have known  the rules about  porting. But Mrs Ws 
new mortgage offer in 2017, for the lower  amount  shed requested, says nothing  about any 
extra funds being  available in future. So I think it would have been  reasonable to expect Mrs 
W to have queried this when she got the mortgage  offer, if this was important to her.
Ref: DRN43852974When Mrs W was refused  a further  advance  in the first six months  - not being warned that 
debt consolidation  would have a maximum 10 year term, and that there was no guarantee 
shed be accepted
As Ive set out above, there are different versions  of what  happened when Mrs W and the 
Halifax adviser spoke.  This was after Mrs W was refused a further advance during  the first 
six months of her mortgage.  Theres no call recording available. So I cant say for certain 
what was said.
Where evidence conflicts, I make my decision on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened. I consider its likely  that Mrs W didnt want to apply for an unsecured loan, which  
the adviser had suggested. Such  a loan would have been at a higher interest rate. I accept 
that Mrs W told the adviser shed use credit  cards instead. But Im not persuaded that it was 
clear that Mrs W planned to apply on the basis she did in early 2018. In early  2018, Mrs W 
applied to consolidate a relatively  small proportion of her total debt, plus more for home 
improvements. I dont think its likely that she set this out to the adviser in 2017.
But in any case,  a 10 year term for debt consolidation  wasnt  what  led to Mrs Ws application  
being rejected  in 2018. So Im not persuaded Mrs W was disadvantaged  by not knowing  this 
in 2017.
Ive also considered Mrs Ws complaint  that she wasnt told that future applications  werent 
guaranteed to be accepted. But no lending applications can be guaranteed, especially  
months in advance. Circumstances  can change,  and Mrs W has told us that her 
circumstances did change. Lenders  can only ever assess a lending application at the time of 
the application. If Mrs W believed that there was a guarantee  as a result of having had a 
higher mortgage  before, I think its reasonable to have expected her to have queried  the fact 
that this wasnt mentioned  in her 2017 mortgage  offer.
Application for a further advance being  declined in spring 2018  
Mrs W has said that it was reasonable for her to assume her further advance would be 
approved, because her new mortgage was just over a third of the value of her previous 
mortgage, and her credit rating was excellent.
Lenders are entitled to take their own decisions about whether or not to lend. I have looked 
closely at what Halifax considered when it rejected Mrs Ws application for a further advance 
in 2018.
Mrs W applied  for £62,000, which she said consisted of £13,300 for debt consolidation and 
£48,700 for home improvements.  Ive looked  at Halifaxs notes about the decision it took, 
and also the credit searches which it carried out at the time.  The credit searches  showed the 
total credit  which  Mrs W had. During  the assessment, Mrs W told Halifax she wasnt going to 
pay off all her debts,  just part of them. She also said her partner was paying  off one of her 
debts. Mrs W has also since  told this service that her debts were £50,000 against a salary of 
£59,000.
Lending decisions are confidential, but having looked at the decision and evidence,  I 
understand why Halifax  took the decision to decline the lending on grounds  of affordability.  
Ref: DRN43852975Responsible lenders have  to check affordability and I find that Halifax  didnt  do anything 
wrong when it did so.
I note that Mrs W has also complained that Halifax couldnt be a responsible lender, when  it 
knowingly allowed customers to take on huge  amounts of debt without any warning or 
advice. I find that it wasnt  Halifaxs responsibility  to tell Mrs W whether or not to take on 
huge amounts  of debt. That was for Mrs W to decide  for herself.  All Halifax  had to do was 
assess whether or not it was prepared to lend to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN4385297