K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the level of commission received by Santander  Cards  UK Limited 
(Santander) on his payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was attached to a store  
card.
Mr Cs store card was taken out in 1998, with the PPI policy  being added  in 2001.
 
background
Mr C came to our service in March  2018 to complain  about the unfair level of commission  
(and profit share) Santander received on his PPI policy.  
Following our services involvement, Santander  made an offer to refund some of the 
commission and profit share it received  because  of the PPI. 
It said it only needed to look at the level of unfair  commission and profit  share it received 
from 6 April 2007. And as Mr C only paid for PPI until August 2008 its offer was for that 
period.
So in total,  Santander offered Mr C £6.86  (after  tax).
Mr C is unhappy with the offer and thinks Santander should  refund more.
Our adjudicator thought the offer made  by Santander was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint. 
As Mr C didnt  agree the complaint has been  passed  to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint, I think Santanders offer is fair. 
Ill explain  why.
First, I would like to clarify that within this decision Ive only considered  Mr Cs complaint 
about the commission and profit share Santander  (as the lender) got due to the PPI. 
Mr Cs complaint about the sale of the PPI is against a different business  and I believe a 
complaint is being  set up separately to deal with that aspect. If this isnt the case or hasnt 
happened, Mr C should get in touch and let us know.
Ref: DRN41714082what has Santander offered?
Santander has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. And this is because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
This is what  the rules  set by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  suggest  Santander 
should pay in cases like this  and I think this is fair in Mr Cs case.
But, importantly, Santander says it only needs  to do this for the period  after 6 April 2007.
why 6 April 2007  is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  gives a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. 
On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended  and complaints about  store  cards, like Mr Cs, 
became something  we could look at. But only about things that happened  on, or after 6 
April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
what does this mean for Mr C.
Because of this it means that Santander  only needs to look at whether it treated  Mr C 
unfairly in relation to the commission and profit  share it received after 6 April 2007  and not 
before. And I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards  not before.
Mr C has said he thinks he should  receive more commission compensation than hes been  
offered as he had the account for many years.
Mr C did have PPI on his account for a number of years so I can certainly  understand why 
he thinks hes due more  compensation. 
The information Ive seen suggests  the account  was opened  in December 1998 and the PPI 
was added in June 2001. So as Mr C was paying  for PPI from 2001 I can understand why 
Mr C wants all of the commission he paid back on the PPI over the lifetime of the policy.
But, as explained  above, Santander  only needs  to work out the refund of excess commission 
and profit share on PPI premiums charged  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
This means  the refund  of any unfair  commission is only for a relatively short  period of time 
compared to how long the PPI was actually charged.  
Ref: DRN41714083Santander has shown  me how it worked  out the offer. The information shows that Mr C 
repaid his balance in August 2007  and didnt use it again. 
In line with what I have  said above,  Santander only needed  to look at the period  after 
6 April 2007. As Mr C didnt use his card after August 2007  it means  Santander only needed  
to look at the commission it received between April 2007 and August 2007.  In this period 
Mr C was charged four PPI premiums that came to a total of £10. 
Santander has compared what the account looked  like and what  it would have looked like if 
the commission and profit share  had been  50%.  
Santander has worked out that instead  of being  charged £10, Mr C would have been 
charged £6.17. Santander has also taken  into account that less interest would have been 
charged to the account. Its offered to refund this too. 
So when Mr C repaid  his balance in August 2007,  Santander has worked out Mr C paid 
£3.94 more than he would have done had the commission and profit share  been  less. 
Santander then added  simple interest at 8% per year to compensate  Mr C for being out 
pocket by this amount  from August  2007 until it calculated its offer.  
In this case, I am satisfied that Santander has made Mr C an offer of compensation in 
relation to the level of unfair  commission (and profit share) it received that is in-line with the 
methods set out by the FCA.   
We do look at the particular circumstances of each  complaint and each consumer to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  wouldnt lead to fair and reasonable redress  for that 
individual consumer.  But there isnt anything about  Mr Cs complaint that suggests the 
redress offered by Santander  isnt fair or reasonable.
I think the compensation puts right any unfairness caused by Mr C not being told about the 
amount of commission and profit share Santander got. So I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Santander Cards UK Limited has offered fair compensation for the commission  it got from 
the PPI.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171408