K821x#15complaint
Miss A has a motor  insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited and 
complains about  what  happened after her car was stolen. 
background
In January 2018, Miss As car was stolen  and it hasnt been recovered. She told Advantage 
about the theft. Miss A says she told Advantage she may not want to make  a claim and that 
it told her she could  decide that later.  
Advantage proceeded as if Miss A was making  a claim. It instructed a loss adjuster to value 
Miss As car. The loss adjusters report said that Miss A may wish to withdraw  the claim, 
depending on the effect it had on her no claims discount. Advantage sent a cheque in 
settlement of the claim to Miss As old address.
Miss A phoned Advantage  about protecting her no claims discount  and found  out that it had 
posted a settlement cheque to her and recorded a fault claim. Advantage gave Miss A the 
option of keeping the cheque and having  her no claims discount reduced  from ten to four 
years or returning the cheque, so that it could record a non-fault claim and she could keep 
her no claims  discount. 
I understand that Miss A subsequently changed  the car on her policy and paid a mid term fee. 
Miss A says that she notified Advantage of the theft and said from the outset that she may 
not want to make a claim. She says it isnt fair that Advantage recorded this as a fault claim 
and reduced her no claims discount. Miss A complains that Advantage wrote to her at her 
old address and gave her incorrect information.  She also doesnt think  its fair that she has to 
forfeit the remaining  premium.
In the complaint form, Miss A said she wants her no claims discount to be unaffected or at 
least not reduced to four years, more time to purchase a replacement  car, which Advantage 
will cover at no extra cost, or a refund the remaining premium.
In its final response letter  to Miss A, Advantage said that it was right to record  this as a fault 
claim and reduce her no claims discount. It subsequently said that was incorrect and that it 
should have phoned Miss A to discuss the matter and given her an opportunity  to withdraw 
the claim.  It offered to pay Miss A compensation of £100.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Advantage had treated Miss A fairly. She said:
Miss A didnt make a claim against her policy, so her no claims discount  should 
be unaffected. 
Miss A didnt know that Advantage was sending her a cheque. 
Advantage  agreed that it should  have called Miss A before settling the claim. That would 
have given  Miss A an opportunity to decide whether she wanted to make a claim or not. 
Advantage  gave  Miss A incorrect  information about cancelling her policy,  taking  out a 
new policy with no claims discount  protection then making  a new claim. 
Advantage  sent correspondence  to Miss As previous address.
Advantage  was entitled to charge Miss A when she added a new car to her policy.
If Miss A had decided  to claim against  her policy Advantage would have acted fairly in 
recording this as a fault claim, as it wouldnt be able to recover  its outlay.
Ref: DRN48132202If theres a claim, the annual premium  is payable. 
Advantage  didnt  investigate Miss As complaint  sufficiently before sending her its final 
response letter, which said that the fault claim had been recorded correctly  and her no 
claims bonus  reduced  this caused Miss A significant upset. 
The adjudicator said that Advantage should  ensure that the theft is recorded as notification 
only on internal  and external databases, ensure Miss As no claims discount  hasnt been 
reduced and pay Miss A compensation of £200 in relation to her stress  and inconvenience.  
Advantage said that its recorded this as notification only and Miss As no claims discount 
hasnt been affected, which its happy to confirm in writing to Miss A. It didnt agree to pay 
Miss A compensation of £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Events have moved  on since  Miss A first complained. Advantage has now recorded this as 
notification only and Miss As no claims discount  hasnt been  affected. I understand that 
Miss A has changed the car insured  under the policy,  so I dont need to address  the issue of 
the remaining  premium.  Advantage was entitled  to charge a fee for a mid-term change.  
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is the appropriate level of compensation for Miss As 
distress and inconvenience. I agree with the adjudicator that £200 is fair here. Ill explain why.
Its now common ground that Miss A indicated that she may not wish to make a claim but 
Advantage proceeded as if she did, including sending her a cheque in settlement. 
Advantage also gave Miss A confusing information when she sought  assistance and 
clarification in that it indicated she could cancel  her policy, take out a new one with no claims 
discount protection and make the claim afresh.  That wasnt  in fact correct.
Advantage also wrote to Miss A at her old address and didnt investigate  her complaint 
properly in the first instance. That meant  that the matter was prolonged unnecessarily.
Advantage is the expert here and wed expect it to get matters  right.  Taking into account the 
nature, extent and duration of Miss As distress  and inconvenience caused by Advantages 
errors, I think  compensation  of £200  is fair. 
I think Advantage should pay Miss A compensation of £200 and write to her confirming that it 
has recorded this as notification only, updated internal and external databases and that her 
no claims discount is unaffected.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint. I now require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Write to Miss A confirming that its recorded  this matter as notification only,  updated 
internal and external databases  and that her no claims  discount  is unaffected.
Pay Miss A compensation of £200.
Ref: DRN48132203Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Advantage  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give Miss A a 
tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4813220