K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mr T bought  the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint,  and Ill explain why.
Mr T said the PPI was added without  his knowledge or consent. FICL say it would have 
made it clear  to Mr T that he didnt have to buy PPI and that it would have  got his consent 
before it added the cover to his account.  Where theres a dispute about what  happened,  I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  taking into 
account all the evidence thats  available.
FICL has given us a copy of the application  form that was completed for Mr Ts store  card. 
There is a section titled Protecting your Account in the section it says only sign this box if 
you require Account Cover - Mr T has signed in the box, so I think this reflected what he 
wanted. If he didnt  want the PPI he could  have left the box blank or questioned this at the 
time. So I think FICL made Mr T aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he chose 
to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mr T  so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But FICL did have  to give Mr T enough information  to allow  him to decide for himself  whether 
or not to take the PPI.
Its possible the information FICL gave  Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
based on what hes told us about  his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  for example, he was in full 
time employment and hes said he didnt suffer  with any pre-existing medical conditions. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think  better information about  
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments, including what hes said about having  a second 
job. Mr T has told us that this was only part time job and he only worked on weekend for less 
Ref: DRN46506812than 16 hours. But looking at the policy terms I dont  think  this would have affected his ability 
to make a claim on the unemployment part of the policy had he lost his main  job. So this 
point doesnt change my decision. 
So overall, although the information provided  by FICL couldve been clearer,  based on what  I 
know about Mr Ts circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him and I 
dont think that more, or better, information wouldve made him act differently and not buy 
the policy. So I dont  think Mr T lost out as a result of anything  FICL mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4650681