K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  (trading as Very) hasnt 
credited her account  in respect  of items  she didnt  receive.
background
In June 2018 Miss M placed an online order for items on Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL)  totalling 
£180.50.
Miss M says that when the order was delivered,  some items were missing.  She contacted 
Very to report the missing  items. Very applied an advance credit  to Miss Ms account and 
told her it would investigate. 
Miss M contacted Very again in September  2018. She had received a statement of account  
but said it was incorrect  because there  was a further  item missing from her order.
Following its investigation  Very decided to charge Miss M for the full order.  Miss M wasnt  
happy with Verys decision so she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Miss Ms account of which  items 
were missing was inconsistent and there was no evidence of what  was or wasnt  in the 
parcel. The investigator concluded  that very hadnt  acted unfairly in charging  Miss M for the 
full order.
Miss M didnt agree so Ive been  asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to some calls between Miss M and Very in which the missing  items were 
discussed.
In the first call, Miss M told Very that three items  were missing. She said she hadnt received 
a bag, that a tracksuit  was missing  the trousers and that a three pack of baby joggers only 
contained two pairs.
In the second  call, Miss M told Very she hadnt received any of the items shed ordered 
except for two ladies  bags.
In the third call, Miss M told Very she had only received one ladies bag.
Very has explained  that it passed  the matter to its fraud department  for further  investigation. 
In a call between Miss M and the fraud department,  Miss M was told that Very would be 
looking at the CCTV footage of the store where she had collected her parcel. Miss M 
remembered at this point  that it was her partner, and not her, who had collected the parcel.
This service has asked Miss M if she has any evidence of what was in the parcel, such  as a 
delivery note/invoice or photos of the incomplete  package. Miss M hasnt  been  able to 
provide anything.
Ref: DRN45162872Taking all of the available information  into account,  I dont think Miss M has been consistent 
with her explanation of which items were missing.  She changed her version of events at 
least three times. She also changed  her version  of events about who had collected  the 
parcel. Miss M hasnt  provided a satisfactory  explanation for these inconsistencies so I dont 
think it would  be fair in the circumstances to ask Very to credit her account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4516287