K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about his HSBC UK Bank  Plc business account. Its been closed and a 
default has been recorded against  it.
 
background
Mr C wanted to open an account  with HSBC. He was about to start work as a taxi driver. So 
the bank said he should have a business  account.  Mr C didnt want one. But HSBC  insisted.  
And it gave  him a corporate card.
Mr C said he barely used  the account. He had a personal account for his normal expenses. 
So he asked HSBC  to close the business account.  But the bank said he had an outstanding 
balance on the corporate card. And he couldnt afford to pay it all in one go. HSBC closed 
his account some time later but he didnt get any letters  about  it. And HSBC  has now placed 
a default on his account.
HSBC said itd asked  Mr C for some additional information. But he hadnt  responded. So itd 
taken the decision  to close the account.  The balance  on the corporate card needed repaying 
in full. And itd placed a default  on the account because  it was still outstanding.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see HSBC  had written  to Mr C in June 2018 
requesting further  information. But Mr C hadnt responded. So itd written to Mr C in 
September to say it could no longer provide  banking  services.  And any outstanding balance 
would have to be repaid  by 20 November 2018. 
She could  see HSBC had tried to contact Mr C on a number of occasions. And although  hed 
continued to pay the monthly minimum amount to his card he hadnt repaid the full balance  
as the bank had requested. So she felt the bank had acted within the terms of the account 
when itd decided  to close it. And HSBC hadnt acted incorrectly by placing the default  on the 
account. 
Mr C didnt agree. He hadnt received  any of the letters  from HSBC  until he got the final 
demand for repayment  of his card balance. And he hadnt even wanted  the business  
account in the first place. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. So Ive looked very carefully at everything  thats  
happened to see if HSBC has done  anything  wrong.  And if it has, what it needs  to do to put 
things right. 
Our investigator provided a comprehensive timeline  in her view.  So I wont repeat it all here. 
But I can see the issue began when HSBC wrote to Mr C in June 2018 as part of its 
safeguarding process. It needed some additional  information for its records. And it gave 
Mr C 84 days  to respond. HSBC sent further  letters in the following months.
Ref: DRN47011982Mr C says he didnt receive any of the letters.  The first he knew  about any problem was 
when he received the final demand for the outstanding balance on his card. And he wouldnt 
have been able to submit  the information HSBC had asked for online anyway. He hadnt  
used online banking for years.
I dont doubt Mr C when  he says he didnt receive  any of the letters from HSBC. But I can 
see the bank wrote to him at least five times before he got in touch. And it also sent text 
messages asking him to log on and complete the review. Ive checked the correct postal 
address was used.  And Mr C did receive the final demand in March 2019 which prompted 
him to contact the bank.
So I think HSBC made reasonable efforts to contact Mr C about his account. Unfortunately 
because Mr C didnt respond it took the decision to close his business account. After  giving 
two months notice the business account was closed in November 2018. And as part of the 
terms and conditions of the account  HSBC was entitled to request a full repayment of the 
outstanding balance within the same  period.
I do appreciate how frustrating this mustve  been  for Mr C. He says he was unaware HSBC 
was going to close his account. And when he received  the final demand letter  he was unable  
to pay the total balance  of just under £5000 in one go. So he asked if he could pay £500 
each month  instead.  But the account  was now closed. And the bank  had been  asking for full 
repayment for around five months.
Although Mr C had continued to make the minimum monthly payments to the account a 
default had been placed on it. And Mr C is concerned this will affect his credit  rating.  I do 
understand his distress.  But HSBC had been demanding full repayment  of the balance. And 
the payment was overdue.  So HSBC had a responsibility to report  this to the credit  reference 
agencies. And I dont think it would be reasonable to ask them  to remove the default. Banks 
have a duty to accurately report what has happened. 
I know Mr C says he didnt even want the business  account. He hardly used it. And hes sure 
he never received  HSBCs letters or text messages. The bank had only called him when  the 
payment was due  it couldve done that when he hadnt responded to the request  for 
additional information. But Mr C did agree to open  the business account.  And he used the 
corporate card for a period  of time until it reached  its final balance. Although Mr C says he 
didnt receive the banks  letters HSBC  did try to contact him on numerous  occasions. 
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant really say HSBC has done anything  wrong. The bank 
acted within  the terms and conditions of the account when it decided to close Mr Cs 
business account. It gave him 60 days notice. And as part of those terms any outstanding 
balance became due for full repayment by the closure date. 
I realise Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome.  But Ive not seen anything  to suggest 
HSBC hasnt followed its procedures properly or made any mistakes. So I wont  be asking it 
to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Ref: DRN47011983Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701198