K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside a 
mortgage in 1996. The policy was taken  out in Mr Rs sole name and they wouldve paid a 
monthly amount  for it. Mr and Mrs R say Coventry Building Society (Coventry) mis-sold  them  
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R say the PPI was added without their knowledge. The policy  was sold during a 
meeting between Mr and Mrs R and Coventry.  As  I cant know exactly  what  was discussed 
with the advisor  when  they applied for the mortgage, Ive looked  at the mortgage documents 
Coventry has provided as well as thought about Mr and Mrs Rs comments and what I know 
about these kinds  of sales in general. 
On the mortgage  application, I can see that PPI has been selected for unemployment only 
and would cover  Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  repayment for up to 9 months. So I think its likely 
that Mr and Mrs R discussed the option of PPI at the time and they chose the cover  which  
suited their circumstances  best. 
So, taking everything Ive seen  into account,  I think Coventry made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs R 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this now.
Coventry So this meant it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them.  But it did have  to 
make sure Mr and Mrs R got the information  they needed to decide  if it was right for them.  
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Coventry  gave Mr and 
Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But based on what  Ive seen of 
Mr Rs circumstances at the time (as the policy  was only in his name) it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And I think  having  the 
security that Mr Rs share of the mortgage repayments would be made if he was unable to 
work would have been important to them. So it looks like the policy would  have been  useful  
for them if something went wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. Which  means  Coventry doesnt have to 
pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. 
But Coventry will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because:  
When the policy was sold,  Coventry  expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R 
about that. Because Coventry didnt tell Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN43915772To put that right, Coventry has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs R have told us, including that theyve said 
about selling  their car. But, the funds wouldnt be immediately available  and their amount 
wouldnt be guaranteed. Also, having  the PPI policy would mean they didnt need to sell their 
car. So this point doesnt change my decision.  
what the business needs  to do
Coventry has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Coventry  should also pay back to Mr and Mrs R any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Coventry should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr and Mrs R the 
difference between  what  he owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Coventry should also pay Mr and 
Mrs R 8%* simple interest if Mr and Mrs R paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4391577