K820x#14Complaint
Miss B complains  that Nationwide Building  Society has failed to protect  her accounts when
she was the victim of a scam and hasnt refunded the money that was stolen.
Background
Miss B, represented by Mrs B, had been on holiday abroad in August 2017.  On her return,
she said she was called  by Nationwide and told that there  had been  some suspected
fraudulent activity on her account and that a staff member would come to collect her card.
Shed then be issued with a new one within eight working days.  Her card was collected,  but
she said she didnt divulge any information,  such as her PIN, to the supposed staff member.
When Miss B didnt receive a new card as shed expected, she called Nationwide  to query its
whereabouts. She was asked to go into branch and, upon  doing so, discovered funds had
been removed  from her account,  her overdraft had been increased, and loan applications
had been made in her name.
Miss B believes shes been the victim of a sophisticated scam. She thinks  that Nationwide
shouldve recognised the unusual activity on her account and kept a block  on it until she
couldve been alerted to the situation. Miss B would like the lost money back  and her credit  
file to be amended.
Nationwide doesnt  think it has made  an error here.  It has provided  call recordings in which 
an individual, claiming to be Miss B, passes security and states  that she made  some  of the 
payments in question. Miss B says that she didnt make these calls. She doesnt know how 
her details were obtained by the scammer.  While  she admits  to handing her card over to 
someone who she believed was a representative of Nationwide, she said she didnt  give 
out her PIN.
Nationwide said that the card transactions, loan and overdraft increase applications were 
carried out online from the same country Miss B had just visited.  To log in to Miss Bs 
account, the card, a card reader and the PIN (which didnt appear to have been changed 
during any time period where it could reasonably have been linked to the scam) were
required. Miss B believes that her PIN was compromised when she made a cash  machine 
withdrawal while away on holiday.  And she also believes that some  of the transactions were
made as a result of Nationwide  amending her contact details on its system.
Miss B is unhappy that Nationwide allowed payments out of the account without correct
verification and that it allowed mobile  numbers and email addresses to be changed.  She
noted that Nationwide seems to have expressed concern about  potential fraud on the
account prior to allowing  the transactions to go through  so doesnt feel that it has protected
her account  as it shouldve done.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She concluded that Miss B was aware of, and
consented to, the transactions.  So she didnt think Nationwide  should take any further  action
on the complaint.  Miss B strongly disagreed with this. So the complaint was passed to
me to decide.
Provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in October  2020. In this I said I wasnt  minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN41423152I thought about  whether Miss B authorised the transactions she disputes. And, if she didnt, 
was the person who made the transactions acting as her agent? I also considered what was 
fair and reasonable overall. I said:
Did Miss B authorise the transactions she disputes?
The starting position here is that a consumer  will only be responsible for payments which  
theyve authorised. Where  someone has carried out a payment themselves by, for 
example, entering  their card and PIN into a payment terminal, theres usually no dispute 
that theyve given consent to (authorised)  a payment  transaction.  This is because  the 
payer themselves has followed  the procedure agreed with the bank for giving consent.
This is explained within the relevant  legislation - the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(PSR). Section 55 says:
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having  been authorised  by the payer 
for the purposes  of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
It also says that this consent:
must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure,  agreed between
the payer and its payment services  provider.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen  that, in this case, the payments were made from 
abroad. But Miss B was back in the UK by the time they were  made.  While I cant  
explain how the transactions were  made  from abroad or who made  them, Nationwide 
has provided evidence  that the card, PIN and card reader were  used to log in and 
authenticate the payments.
So Im persuaded  that it was someone  other  than Miss B using the online account to make 
these payments - I dont  think she physically performed the transactions.  I think  its more  
likely that a third party  completed the form and procedure necessary for giving consent to 
these transactions.  But, having said that, a consumer  can give someone else the authority 
to carry out a transaction on their behalf, for which theyd  still be liable i.e. an agent for 
Miss B  Ive considered  this next.
Was the person  who made the transactions  acting as her agent?
As I dont think Miss B physically completed  these transactions herself, Ive gone on to 
think about whether  she did anything that means  the person  who made these payments 
should be treated  as her agent. Nationwide  would be entitled to hold Miss B liable for any 
transactions for which  she gave authority for someone to act on her behalf. So, if she gave 
permission for the use of her payment instrument by a third party (an agent) in such  a way 
that it looked to Nationwide as though  the payment had been  authorised  by her, the 
payment can be considered authorised  for the purposes of PSR 2009.
The important consideration here is what part Miss B played in permitting the 
transactions she disputes. Ive thought about  whether Miss Bs actions  can reasonably 
be seen as providing authority to make payment transactions.
Ref: DRN41423153To decide this, Ive first thought about Miss Bs version of events. Shes explained  that she 
hadnt given her PIN to anyone at all, but thinks it was compromised while  she was 
abroad. She said the card was given to someone  alleging to be a Nationwide staff 
member when she was back in the UK. But given that the card and the PIN were used 
together, and in the country that Miss B had just been to on holiday,  this would suggest 
that the card was transported back there to be used. Its unclear how someone  would  
have known where Miss B lived or how they wouldve obtained  her phone number to 
arrange collection of the card. And if they had obtained the card in the UK, I cant see any 
reason for them to transport it abroad  to make transactions.
I note from correspondence thats been provided  involving  another  financial business that 
there are some differences between  what it said it was told and what Nationwide was told: 
We received a letter from Nationwide  of 25 October 2017 to confirm  that you had been 
the victim of a courier scam which was contradictory to the information  that you had 
provided about your bag being stolen On the 05 October 2017 you spoke with a 
member of our Fraud Team and confirmed  that you thought you had your driving licence, 
bank card and [employment]  card stolen whilst you were  away While this would provide 
some explanation around how some of Miss Bs information was obtained,  its very 
inconsistent with what Nationwide  was told.
So its unclear  to me how someone would be able to use Miss Bs card in the way that 
they have without having been given authority to use the card,  as well as the relevant 
details to do so. And I have to keep the contradictions in her testimony in mind.
While I dont have evidence from the time of the transactions to show  that Miss B gave 
her consent  to an agent, I do have evidence  after these payments were  made   of 
phone calls between someone claiming to be Miss B and Nationwide. In one of these 
calls (on 17 August at 16:06   which Ill refer to as Call A for ease) Miss  B, having 
passed security, accepted shed made those payments and had applied for a loan. 
Miss B s representative disputes that it was Miss B in this call, so Ill address this later 
on.
But if I were to conclude  that it was Miss B who had spoken to Nationwide and confirmed 
that she recognised  and was responsible for the payments, Id be minded to proceed on 
the basis that Miss B had given  permission  for her card to be used, and that an agent  
made the transactions. While there were further transactions after those confirmed in the 
phone call, Miss B wouldnt have  needed  to give explicit permission for each individual  
transaction. As I said earlier, permitting the use of her payment  instrument  by a third 
party means that these  could  be considered as authorised.
As referenced above, Miss Bs representative  is adamant that it wasnt Miss B in the calls 
in which  she seemingly accepted responsibility for the now-disputed transactions. But 
shes confirmed that the person in call recordings provided from 31 August 2017  (Call  
B) was Miss B. Ive listened to calls from both of these dates, as well as calls in 
between, very carefully and several times,  and Im persuaded that it was Miss B in both 
Call A and Call B.
Miss B has pointed out that her telephone  number and email addresses were  changed  
around the time of these disputed transactions.  Im not quite sure what  happened here 
and havent been able to get to the bottom of this from my further  questions  to Nationwide.  
But, having  said that, I can see that the telephone number  that was used to make Call A 
matches the phone number that we hold on our system as belonging to Miss B. Ive asked 
Ref: DRN41423154Nationwide about  whether  their call operators  wouldve been required to type in the phone  
number of the caller  onto the system themselves, whether it would automatically populate 
with the phone number that was held on Miss Bs record  or whether it would automatically 
populate with the actual  phone number calling in. Nationwide has said that the system 
automatically records the number thats called. So Im persuaded that the calls were 
between Nationwide  and Miss Bs mobile  number.
Miss B has provided copies of her mobile phone call records which dont show calls made 
to Nationwide  on 17 August 2017. Our investigator  noted that these  call records also dont  
show calls made  on 31 August 2017   the date which she has confirmed she spoke with 
Nationwide. Miss B has explained  that she used a third-party provider for the call on 31 
August which  is why it doesnt show. But I dont  think  the absence  of Call A on her records 
is sufficient to say that this means  it wasnt Miss B. So I maintain  that it was Miss B in Call 
A and that she accepted responsibility for transactions in that call.
There was another  call with someone that quite  clearly wasnt  Miss B  also on 17 
August 2017.  But, as Ive explained,  I think someone else was likely to have  been  
involved here. And, without an explanation of how someone got Miss Bs security 
credentials, I think its likely that someone else was acting  as her agent.
Miss B believes this is all part of an extremely sophisticated scam. But it wouldnt be 
necessary for a scammer to try to match Miss Bs voice so well  Nationwide,  like most 
similar financial businesses,  doesnt  generally have  an individual case-handler  assigned  
to its customers  who could recognise  a different voice. I can imagine this would have an 
entirely unnecessary  cost implication. Ultimately, Im not persuaded by Miss Bs version  
of events, and it makes it difficult for me to think it fair for Nationwide to refund her 
losses as a result.
Theres a wealth of information available in relation  to this complaint. So I havent 
commented on everything, though  Ive read the file in detail. But I did want to just comment 
on one particular point  to make it clear  that Ive taken it into consideration. During  the calls 
around the time of Call A, Nationwide  reached  the point of explaining that Miss B would 
need to go into branch  with ID before the account would be unblocked.  And it had also 
been noted that CIFAS had raised concerns over a potentially fraudulent loan application.  
But Miss B didnt have  to go into branch  with ID. Instead, the account was unblocked 
based on what was said over the phone.  But, given what Ive said above  that Im not 
persuaded by Miss Bs version of events  this doesnt change  my opinion on the case. I 
think it more likely than not that it was Miss B who agreed  to having made those 
transactions, most  likely through an agent with authority  to act on her behalf. So the end 
result of going into the branch with her ID wouldve been the same.
Based on everything  Ive seen, heard and been  told, and with consideration for the law, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible for these transactions.  Overall, 
Im of the opinion that Miss B consented to the execution of the payment  transactions,  and 
gave her authority  for these, even  if she didnt physically  carry out the payments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss B had some further comments.  These  can be summarised as follows:
Ref: DRN41423155-Miss B reiterated that the PIN was most likely compromised at the cash  machine 
while abroad, and a third-party business said that someone  else had experienced a 
similar incident. 
-Miss B believes that the transactions were made in the UK but disguised to appear 
as though they were happening abroad. She said an expert  had confirmed this would 
be possible. 
-Miss B said she hasnt told anyone that her bag was stolen  so is left confused by 
this.
-Miss B reiterated that it wasnt her in the calls accepting  the payments. She believes 
she shouldve been given the opportunity to provide evidence from a voice 
recognition expert. And she questioned why Miss B would call in using a voice that 
did not sound like her own.
-She said that its possible to make  a phone call appear to be from a different number. 
So Nationwide shouldnt have acted  on a call from an incoming number  but shouldve  
contacted a trusted outgoing number.
-Miss B said that Nationwide  failed to protect  the account by unblocking it without her 
having gone into branch. And she suggested that the reason for this was that she 
wasnt made aware that she needed to  it was the fraudster who was told this. 
Nationwide had nothing  further to add.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Miss Bs case again, but I havent found any cause to reach a different 
outcome than I previously  reached. Ive answered the key further points raised  in response 
below. But my overall outcome has remained the same. 
I note Miss B has reiterated that the PIN was most  likely compromised abroad. But the fact 
remains that shes also said that she returned  home with the card where it was collected by 
someone who she believed to be a staff member  of Nationwide. If a person obtained her PIN 
at the cash machine, they wouldnt have been  able to use it, in the way it was used, without 
also having the card. And obtaining the PIN, but no further credentials  or personal 
information, doesnt explain how that person wouldve obtained her address or telephone  
number to be able to arrange  for the card to be collected back  in the UK. 
I move  on next to Miss Bs comments around  how the location of the transactions  can be 
disguised. But I dont  see any reason why someone  would need  to make it appear  that the 
transactions were  happening abroad  if they werent. But, even if that were the case  and 
these transactions  did take place in the UK, this doesnt address my concerns around  how 
obtaining the PIN resulted  in acquiring  the card too. 
Miss B said she hasnt told anyone that her bag was stolen. This information was presented  
within a letter from a financial business to Miss B. The details given were quite specific,  so I 
dont know where  this information wouldve come  from, if not Miss B, as it referenced  the 
theft of a card relating  to her employer, her driving  licence and the bank card.  Its possible  
this was an error on the part of the financial business, but I dont think  its necessary to delve 
further into this. I say this because even with one consistent version of events, Im still left 
with the concerns mentioned above.  
Ref: DRN41423156Miss B believes she shouldve been given the opportunity  to provide evidence from a voice  
recognition expert to prove that it wasnt her in the calls accepting  the payments. When  
bringing the case to us and following the investigators view,  Miss B was given an 
opportunity to present any further  information  shed like to in support of her case. But, having  
listened to Calls A and B myself on multiple  occasions, Im satisfied  its the same person  in 
both, so I didnt  feel expert evidence was likely  to make a difference  but Miss B still had the 
opportunity of submitting whatever she wished before and after the case was allocated to 
me. In any event, this isnt the sole factor in why Im not upholding this complaint  Im 
simply not persuaded by Miss Bs overall version  of events and/or consistency as a witness 
of fact. 
Id like to point out here, due to Miss Bs response, that I havent suggested Miss B called in 
using a voice that didnt sound  like her own. Instead, I acknowledge that someone else was 
involved here, but Ive already explained  that I think its possible a third party  was acting on 
her behalf   and it may be that this person also called in. But this, and the lack of evidence 
of Miss Bs call in the phone records, doesnt change my opinion. 
Ive thought carefully about the points Miss B raised  in relation to making phone calls appear  
to be from a different  number, and how Nationwide shouldve called her on a trusted  
number. But I disagree with this. Its not logical that someone would go to such  extreme 
lengths to impersonate Miss B to find out her mobile  number and disguise  their own number 
using this. The actions  suggested by Miss B are likely to involve a lot of time, energy and 
expense to the fraudster. Being able to pass security,  regardless of a voice,  accent, or the 
number being  used to call from, would generally  be enough to be able to carry out banking 
transactions. An accurate impersonation would be wholly unnecessary. And Im persuaded 
that Nationwide was given enough information  to allay any doubt that it was Miss B with 
whom it was speaking. 
I know this will all be disappointing for Miss B to hear. But I remain of the opinion that Miss B 
consented to the execution  of the payment transactions, and gave her authority for these, 
even if she didnt physically carry out the payments. Im not persuaded by the version of 
events presented to me, and I think it would be unfair to ask Nationwide  to take any action 
here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide  Building  
Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4142315