K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Kent Reliance-branded mortgage Mr K holds with OneSavings 
Bank Plc. He complains that his interest rate and the monthly payments he makes  are too 
high. For ease of reference, throughout this decision, Ill refer to the business  as Kent 
Reliance.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
and Ive used  my own words when  doing so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr K took the mortgage out in 2003. The mortgage  was on an initial two-year  fixed rate. Mr K 
renewed his rate periodically until 2010, when the mortgage reverted to Kent Reliances 
standard variable  rate (SVR). 
In 2016, when the reduction in the Bank  of England Base Rate  (BEBR)  was announced,  
Mr K contacted Kent Reliance to ask if his rate would be going  down  too. Kent Reliance 
explained that its SVR didnt track BEBR automatically but that it would be going down by 
0.25% on 1 September 2016.  Kent Reliance offered to send Mr K details  of its current  rate 
products to he could  choose a new deal. It seems  that didnt arrive, and Mr Ks mortgage 
remained on SVR. 
The SVR reduction  prompted a recalculation of Mr Ks monthly  instalment, the first for 
several years. Although  the interest  rate had gone down, Mr Ks new payment was higher, 
due to some  historic shortfalls  in payments. Mr K complained  at that time, and Kent Reliance 
issued a final response on 5 September 2016.
Matters remained there  for two years or so, until late 2018, when Mr K received a letter from 
Kent Reliance inviting  him to consider  a new rate deal.  Mr K selected  a new two-year fixed  
rate deal; he then complained that hed been  over-paying since 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Kent Reliance had done anything  wrong. Mr K has asked  for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most lenders,  Kent Reliance has a range of fixed  rate interest products on offer from 
time to time, and an SVR, which is the rate it charges  by default when an existing product 
comes to its end date and isnt immediately replaced by another.  The fixed  rate deals 
typically are for two, three  or five years (very occasionally, longer deals are available) and 
the rates on offer vary periodically, as does the SVR, to reflect the general trend in interest 
rates across  the economy  as a whole. 
The BEBR is one of the primary influences on lenders rates,  but with one exception, the link 
isnt direct.  The exception is in the case of tracker  products where it is an express  condition  
Ref: DRN42690842of the deal that the rate charged will move exactly in line with movements in BEBR (or 
another variable  rate as specified). Tracker  products aside,  BEBR is merely an influencer of 
the general direction of rates.
Im not a regulator,  and I have no power to tell Kent Reliance what its interest rates  should  
be. All I can consider here is whether  it had charged  Mr K more  interest  that the contract  
between them allows it to. I know how strongly  he feels about this, but having considered 
everything he and Kent Reliance have said and provided, I dont find that Kent Reliance has 
done anything  wrong or over-charged Mr K.
From the mortgage start date in 2003  until 2010,  Mr K was always on a fixed  rate deal of 
some sort or other. Thats because, each time a deal came to an end, Mr K arranged a new 
one to replace  it. For some reason that didnt happen in 2010 and Mr Ks mortgage  reverted 
to SVR and remained  there until the end of 2018 when he asked  for a new deal and got one.
The only occasion  between  2010 and 2018 when Mr K expressed a desire for a better  rate 
was in 2016 when he had a number of phone conversations with the business. Ive listened 
to those calls, and its quite apparent Mr K was adamant his rate should be reduced  simply 
because BEBR had gone down. Ive explained above why that wasnt the case, and Im 
satisfied Kent Reliance  explains  this to Mr K during  the 2016 phone  calls. Im not sure he 
was convinced by what he was told, but thats not down to any failure on Kent Reliances 
part.
The other thing  Kent Reliance did in 2016 was offer to send Mr K details of its then current  
rate deals so that he could choose a new one if he wanted to. It seems that letter never  
arrived, and Mr Ks mortgage stayed on SVR another two years. I cant place the blame  for 
that at Kent Reliances  door. It did what Id expect a lender to do by sending  Mr K 
information so that he could choose his next deal. 
Lenders cant be responsible for post not arriving, plus its reasonable to conclude that Mr K 
was expecting to receive  the information. He could have called again when it hadnt arrived  
and asked for another copy to be sent to him. The point  here is that lenders arent obliged to 
prompt borrowers to seek a better deal.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4269084