K820x#14Complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1995. Mr S paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered him in case  he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Having done that, I think  its most likely that this particular policy  was not mis-sold   Ill 
explain why.
This sale was 24 years  ago, and the accounts  involved  have long since  closed. So I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  rules  Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Ss data rather than hold onto it 
for too long. When Mr S complained to Halifax he said he didnt remember  the sale but 
reckoned he wouldnt have chosen PPI. He later said he must have been told he had to take 
it. Ive kept in mind  that memories can and do fade over time, that this sale was particularly 
long ago, and that buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully  about  
whats most likely  to have happened  based  on the information I have.
Mr S sent us an agreement from a different  sale,  which  he says shows Halifax were  adding 
PPI without his permission. But its from a number of years later and for a different product, 
so I dont think its relevant here. And I can see that the agreement did offer him the choice 
to take or turn down  PPI. It looks like the option  to decline PPI was crossed out, while the 
option to buy PPI was also marked but with an unclear symbol. So even if this was relevant 
to this sale  which  I dont think it is  I dont think it conclusively  shows  what  happened  
there or shows that there  was a wider problem.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr S into having PPI. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats  what Halifax did in this case. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with their sales process from the time of this sale. And this sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably  expect Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to 
defend themselves now. So I dont  think I have a fair basis on which  to conclude that Halifax  
misled Mr S here. I think its more  likely  that they followed  a relatively  standard  sales 
process, gave Mr S a choice, and he chose PPI  even  if, understandably, he no longer 
recalls doing so after so long.
Ref: DRN42791422Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S, so they had to check  it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, it looks like 
Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations. I understand Mr S felt secure  in his ability to find work, but long periods  of 
unemployment can and do happen,  even in industries that feel secure. I also understand 
Mr Ss family mightve been happy to help him, but the PPI meant  he wouldnt have to ask 
his family  to pay his mortgage. And the mortgage was Mr Ss sole responsibility,  so I dont 
think it wouldve been suitable for Halifax to recommend he relies on other  people  to pay it.
Mr S said he had some work benefits  and savings, though he hasnt been  able to give us a 
consistent account of how much  these were, nor any evidence of them.  I think  thats  
understandable given  just how long ago this sale was, but it makes  it difficult  to say it meant 
the PPI was unsuitable for him. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his benefits and covered 
him for a significant period, so it was likely to have  offered him more  comprehensive cover.  It 
also meant he could  effectively protect his savings and use them  for other  things. And it 
meant he wouldnt have  to go to the extremes of selling off a car or other assets  to keep up 
his payments. Further, this mortgage  was a very significant, long-term commitment, and 
there was no guarantee Mr S would still have  the same benefits or savings in the many 
years to come. And ultimately,  if he fell behind on his mortgage he couldve lost his home. 
So overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been  useful  for Mr S in protecting  his home and 
giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr S about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  been  useful for him in case something went  wrong.  The policy  
was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and Ive not seen any 
indication it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr S 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  was 
likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr S has rightly pointed out that many  PPI policies were mis-sold in other  cases. But 
many other PPI policies  were not mis-sold. And different policies worked in different ways,  
were sold using different  methods in different years, and so on. So just because one policy 
was mis-sold, it doesnt mean that a different one was too. Ive explained why I dont think  
that this particular PPI policy was likely to have  been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279142