K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint relates  to the advice Aquila Financial  Management  Limited gave him to 
transfer his pension benefits.
background
Mr P had two temporary annuities, which matured in April 2015, with a value of around  
£72,000. These were  five year annuities, which didnt provide an income as such  during that 
period, but instead provided  a guaranteed lump sum at the end of the term.
The annuity  provider wrote to Mr P in January 2015 to let him know  that the maturity date 
was approaching, and to set out the options available  to him.
Mr P engaged Aquila to provide advice on the options presented.  Aquila  had previously 
advised Mr P to take out the temporary  annuities, but Mr P agreed  to a new Service and Fee 
Arrangement, which he signed in March  2015.
The suitability report produced by Aquila recorded  that Mr Ps aim was to realign the two 
funds to provide  for future income. And it said that the outright purchase of an annuity had 
been rejected  as Mr P had no need for income at that time. Instead,  Aquila recommended 
that Mr P move the maturity amount to another pension provider.
Aquilas risk profiler  assessed Mr Ps attitude  to risk as being level 3 on a scale of 1 to 7, 
with 7 being willing to take the most risk. The adviser recorded Mr Ps attitude to risk as 
conservative and suggested he could be best described as suiting Investment Profile  3. This 
included the description:
You are looking for more growth potential and understand there is a need  to take on some  
equity backed  investment  risk in order to try and achieve this".
Although investment profile 3 typically  contained up to 35% in equities, the suitability report 
also documented:
When you were here, we went  through  certain investment models that we run, and, in light 
of your risk profile, it has been decided to adopt Model 3."
The recommendation was that Mr P should  move his pensions  to the Aviva platform.
Mr P complained to Aquila in 2017  about the advice he had received in 2010  and 2015.  But 
Aquila didnt uphold his complaint. The complaint about the advice given in 2010 is being 
dealt with separately. In relation to the 2015  advice, it said:
Although Mr P had complained that it hadnt explored other investment options with 
the same  provider after the temporary annuities matured, the correspondence from 
that provider showed that the only option on maturity was to transfer to another 
provider;
The funds recommended for the transfer  were consistent with its understanding  of 
Mr Ps attitude to risk;
Mr P said that the advice was driven by a requirement by Aquila to generate  income, 
but the fees and commission had been fully disclosed, and there was nothing  on the 
file to suggest that Mr P had queried  this at the time.
Ref: DRN45121992The recommendations that were  provided were  driven by Mr Ps requirements and 
the circumstances at the time and not simply by a wish to generate  an income for 
Aquila.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
He said, in summary:
Mr P was sent various options by the provider when his temporary annuities were  
close to maturity. Based  on the suitability report, he was satisfied that these options 
had been discussed,  and that Aquila had also offered further  opportunity to discuss 
anything Mr P wasnt sure about.  So he was satisfied  that the alternatives open  to 
Mr P had been examined;
Ps attitude to risk was categorised as level 3 and after consideration of the model 
portfolios offered  by the new provider  it was recommended  that he adopt Model 3. 
The adjudicator  could see from the suitability  report that this was discussed with Mr P 
and a quotation provided;
Having examined  the asset allocation of Model 3 both at inception and now, the 
adjudicator felt that this appeared to offer exposure to a higher amount of shares 
than the typical  more conservative  allocation of shares in an Aquila level 3 risk 
category. In his opinion this portfolio was best categorised  as medium,  which was in 
line with what Mr P had said was his attitude  to risk;
Mr P agreed to a new service and fee agreement  in March 2015  which  set out what  
charges he could expect to pay for the advice and the ongoing  charges.  These  
charges were also confirmed in the suitability report.  He felt that the charges were 
clearly presented at the time and that Mr P was able to make  an informed choice as 
to whether they were acceptable  to him.
Mr P did not agree  with the adjudicators  opinion and asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 14 July 2020.  I said,  in summary:
Having provisionally  considered all the available evidence  and arguments,  Id come 
to the conclusion that the advice Mr P received  in 2015 was not unsuitable  for him. 
This view was limited only to the 2015 advice  the suitability of the advice given in 
2010 was addressed  in a separate complaint.
Id seen a copy  of the letter that the annuity  provider sent to Mr P in January 2015, as 
the maturity date of his temporary  annuities was approaching. That letter  set out 
three options:
oto take the maturity  amount as a lump sum;
oto invest in a product  that kept his money invested; or
oto purchase an annuity.
The suitability report sent to Mr P in March 2015 refers to a meeting between Mr P 
and the adviser.  It records that he was still working, and was not planning to retire  
until age 66 or 67. He and his wife also had other assets, owned their own house and 
were mortgage free. So I was satisfied that Mr P and his adviser  discussed  his 
situation and his plans. And, on the basis of what  Ive seen, I agreed that the 
Ref: DRN45121993recommendation to transfer his benefits  to the new pension provider to keep his 
money invested seemed suitable  for Mr Ps circumstances.
Mr P had said that the funds recommended werent suitable for his attitude to risk, 
which he said was medium. But I noted that the risk profiler  Mr P completed in 2015  
indicated his risk level as level 3 out of 7 and Aquila therefore recommended that he 
invest in its Model  3 investment model.
In any event, as our adjudicator pointed out, the Model 3 portfolio did appear to hold 
a higher amount of shares  than the level 3 Aquila risk category might indicate.  For 
this reason, I didnt  consider that it was unsuitable for Mr Ps stated attitude to risk.
Mr P had said that Aquilas advice  was driven by its wish to generate  fee income for 
itself. But there  was a need for Mr P to take some action with his temporary  annuities  
when they matured. And, as set out above, I was not persuaded that the advice Mr P 
received at that point was unsuitable for his circumstances. I also noted that the fees 
and charges were  clearly  set out in the fee agreement Mr P signed in March  2015, 
and were also referred to in the suitability letter. So I agreed with our adjudicator  that, 
if Mr P had had any queries, he had the opportunity to raise  them  at the time.
Mr P has responded to my provisional  decision. He says, in summary, that if the advice hed 
received in 2010 had been correct then he would not have been in the position of having to 
reinvest his annuity  in 2015.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P has to say in response to my provisional  decision. But as my 
decision on his related complaint about  the advice he received in 2010 already takes 
account of his point, I havent been  persuaded to change my decision on this complaint. So, 
for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional  decision, I reconfirm it here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4512199