K820x#14complaint
Mr S held a Tech  Pack  Account  (TPA) with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) from May 
2016 for which he was charged a monthly fee. He says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr S took out a fee free account with Barclays in January 1998.
He upgraded to an Account Plus (AP) in July 2001.
Mr S was then transferred  by Barclays to a TPA in May 2016.
Mr S says this complaint  is about the TPA;  he didnt  want  it and didnt  know he had it, so 
Barclays has mis-sold  it to him.
Barclays says it didnt  do anything wrong  in the sale.
Our adjudicator also thought that Barclays didnt do anything wrong but Mr S disagrees so 
the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.
In 2016, the AP that Mr S had held for seven years cost £6.50 a month. Its benefits included  
mobile phone insurance  and gadget  insurance and a fee free overdraft of up to £200.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr S saying it was closing APs and it offered him a TPA instead. 
The TPA had the same  main benefits  plus some  more and cost £9.50 a month. In its letter 
Barclays explained that he could have a fee free account but if it didnt hear from him, it 
would transfer  his account to the TPA.
Mr S didnt reply so Barclays says it wrote  to him again two months later saying his account 
was now a TPA, but he could cancel it at any time.
Mr S says he didnt receive  any communication  from Barclays about changing to a TPA, he 
has never used the benefits and he didnt want the TPA.
Ive looked at the letters Barclays sent to Mr S. They  are correctly addressed so, even though  
Mr S says he had problems with his mail,  I think its more likely than not that he received at 
least one of them. And I think there is enough information in either  of the first two letters  to 
enable Mr S to realise what was happening and make an informed decision.
Ive considered Mr Ss comments  about  not using  the TPA. I dont doubt his honest 
recollections but I think his memory is wrong on this. I say this because  Barclays  has provided 
evidence that at the time he took the TPA out he had a mobile phone registered for insurance 
cover. And he was regularly going  overdrawn,  so was benefiting from the fee free overdraft 
facility and continued to do so for some time.
Ref: DRN44423242So I think its more likely  than not that he made an informed  decision to take out the TPA, then 
it was up to him to arrange to use the benefits.
So, although  I know Mr S will be disappointed, I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong in the 
TPA sale, and I cant uphold Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020. 
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4442324