K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  didnt give him a refund of his premium  when 
he provided proof of his No Claims Discount (NCD) and that it made  errors  in his renewal 
letter.
background
Mr O took out a policy online with Aviva. It asked him for proof of his NCD to validate the 
policy and the premium hed been  quoted.  Mr O provided this late and he was unhappy that 
Aviva didnt then give him a refund  of his premium. Mr O also said the renewal letter  had the 
wrong premium for the previous year and Aviva  had incorrect annual mileage for his car. 
Aviva agreed the premium was incorrectly stated and it offered Mr O £30 compensation for 
this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mr O 
wasnt due a refund of his premium as hed paid the correct premium  allowing for his NCD. 
He thought Avivas  offer of £30 compensation for the error was fair. And he thought Mr O 
had input the incorrect mileage for his car.
Mr O disagreed and so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O said that hed been promised a refund of his premium when he submitted proof of his 
11 years NCD.  But I havent  seen any evidence to support this. I think the premium  Mr O 
paid Aviva already  took into account the discount applicable for the NCD hed claimed. Mr O 
rang Aviva to have  his NCD  reinstated as he hadnt  submitted  his proof  by the deadline  
required. In this call, no refund was promised.  So I cant say that Aviva  has made an error  or 
owes Mr O any refund.
Aviva agreed that it had stated the incorrect premium for the previous year in Mr Os renewal 
letter. It offered him £30 compensation  for this. I think this is fair and reasonable because  of 
the limited impact this error had on Mr O. I dont think  Aviva  needs to offer him further 
compensation. 
Mr Os provided  his MOT  certificates. I can see that he drives less than 3,000  miles a year. 
But Aviva had it noted as less than 100,000  a year. This is about the total mileage of Mr Os 
car. Mr O applied  for his policy online.  I think its for him to provide accurate information in 
his application.  I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the accuracy of the information 
Mr O provided.  
Aviva said it quoted for a policy based on the mileage Mr O stated  online and he then 
accepted this quote. Ive listened to the call when Mr O paid for his policy. Mr O confirmed 
that he wanted to take out the policy based on the information hed provided  online. Aviva 
then sent him access to his policy details online. Mr O could then check  that the information 
hed provided  was correct. But I cant see that he did this at the time. So I cant say that 
Aviva did anything wrong on this point  or that it treated Mr O unfairly.
Ref: DRN47825682my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4782568