K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) carried out a credit check  on him when 
he applied  for a business current  account  in the name of his limited company. 
background
 
Mr E is the sole director of his limited  company. In October 2018 he made  an online 
application for a business current account  on behalf of the company. During the application 
Santander carried out a hard footprint credit search on Mr Es personal credit file.
Santander says any consideration  for a business  account in the name of a sole trader, 
partnership or on behalf  of a limited company are all subject to a credit search. It says this is 
confirmed in the terms and conditions, and that Mr E would have needed  to confirm his 
agreement with these  conditions to complete his online application.
Mr E says that he and his company are two distinct legal entities. He says that when 
accepting the terms and conditions he was doing  so on behalf  of the company and not 
himself personally. He says he never gave his consent for his personal credit file to be 
checked.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Es complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable 
for Santander to complete a credit  check on Mr E. She said it needed to complete checks on 
Mr E to confirm his identity and for fraud prevention purposes, as well as for any credit  
applications. She said Santander couldnt complete a credit search on a new business.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators opinion. So because  no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues for me to decide are whether I think Santanders decision to complete a 
credit search on Mr E is in line with the terms and conditions  and whether it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Santander says that during the online  sale Mr E wouldve been asked to read and agree to 
the general terms and conditions  before completing  the application. These say:
Credit and other checks 
If you apply for a credit / loan product we will perform a credit search, where we 
check details of your credit history with certain credit  reference agencies,  who will 
keep a record of that search (including details  about your application with us, whether 
or not it is successful). 
.For all applications we will need  to carry out some checks, including fraud checks 
and checking  your identity. Well check your details with fraud prevention and credit 
reference agencies  to check your identity and application details, prevent and 
investigate crime, trace and recover debt,  check  insurance claims and for analysis 
and testing. 
Ref: DRN43706372Put simply
If you apply for a credit product, we will carry out a credit search to make a decision 
on your application  and this will be recorded  on your credit  file. Records will be linked 
together on joint applications.
Mr E has argued that he was only representing  his company in making the application. He 
says that he and the company are separate entities, so the credit checks should have only 
been made on the company, not on him personally. He says he didnt give his consent for 
his personal credit record to be checked.  
I agree  that Mr E and the company are distinct legal entities, but I dont think that means  
Santander has acted  unfairly by completing  credit searches on Mr E. This is because  the 
general terms and conditions has a further explanation of the checks  it will carry out which 
states:
Credit reference checks 
If youve applied for a credit product then in order to process your application, well 
perform credit and identity checks on you at your home and business  address (if you 
are a business customer)  with one or more credit reference agencies. To do this well 
supply your personal data to the credit reference agencies and theyll give us 
information about you. When we carry out a search at the credit reference  agencies 
theyll place a footprint  on your credit file. A credit search may either  be: a) a 
quotation search where a soft footprint is left. This has no effect  on your credit score, 
and lenders are unable  to see this; or b) a hard footprint  where youve 
agreed/requested Santander to proceed  with your application for credit. This footprint 
will be viewable  by other lenders and may affect  your ability  to get credit  elsewhere. 
Well also continue to exchange information  about  you with credit reference agencies  
while you have a relationship with us. The credit reference agencies may in turn 
share your personal information with other organisations.  The personal data shared 
with the credit reference agencies will relate to you and your business (if you are a 
business customer).
I think this section makes it clear that credit searches will be completed on the individual  
applying for the account  in this case Mr E. 
Santander states that it needs to carry out identity and fraud prevention checks for all 
applications, which includes  credit  searches.  This is standard  across  the industry and not 
something I would  say is unfair or unreasonable. Santander has also shown that Mr E would 
have needed to tick a box confirming he had read the terms and conditions, and that he 
accepted them, before his application  could proceed.  
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account  I dont think Santander has acted unfairly, or 
outside of its terms and conditions, by completing  the credit  searches on Mr E.
Ref: DRN43706373my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4370637