K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that the car he acquired  using finance from Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
(Moneybarn) was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
background
I issued my provisional decision in early  January  2019 (copied below). I explained I had 
carefully considered  all of the available evidence and arguments  from the outset, in order to 
decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken  into account 
relevant regulatory  rules  as well as the law and good industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and to make a number of 
instructions to Moneybarn  to put things right. 
Mr L has accepted  my provisional decision.  Neither party has provided any further evidence 
to consider. The deadline for further  submissions has now passed.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, I have reached the same decision as 
before, and for the same  reasons. It follows  that I uphold this complaint, and instruct 
Moneybarn to put things right as set out below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to put things right as follows:
repair the gearbox/mechatronics unit at no cost to Mr L.
ensure that Mr L is given a courtesy car to use (at no cost to him) until the repairs  are 
completed.
refund  Mr L any monthly  payments made since the car became  unusable  in May 
2018 until the date that hes provided with a courtesy car, plus simple interest at 8% 
from the date of each  payment until the date of settlement.
refund  Mr L the £35 charge from the car servicing and repair company and the £66 
charge for the diagnosis report, plus simple interest  at 8% from the date Mr L made 
each payment until the date of settlement.
pay Mr L £200 for the trouble and upset he has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40787802copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that the car he acquired using  finance from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
background
Mr L acquired a car for £6,850 using a conditional sale agreement  on 14 July 2017. The car was 
seven years old and had done 45,612 miles at the point of sale.
Mr L says that within a couple of weeks he began to experience problems with the car. He initially 
contacted the seller, who directed him to Moneybarn. Mr L contacted  Moneybarn  on 3 August 2017, 
and explained he had experienced problems with the engine management light coming on and it felt 
like he was driving through a pothole when changing  gear . Mr L has told us that Moneybarn asked 
him to provide evidence of this.
Mr L visited a car servicing and repair company, who did an inspection and reset  the code to turn off 
the light.  I understand Mr L was charged  £35 for this. However, shortly afterwards the engine  
management light came  on again, and the problems  with the gearbox persisted.
Mr L took the car to his nearest dealer,  who quoted him approximately £1,500 to repair the gearbox. I 
understand this quote was based  on a £130 per hour labour  cost charge, and the parts  being  covered 
under warranty.
Mr L spoke  to his warranty company, and established that his cover for labour costs was limited to a 
maximum £30 per hour. He was also told he would  be provided with a list of approved garages, but 
that this never arrived.  Mr L says he contacted numerous garages, but most were  unwilling to take on 
the job. Of the two garages he found  who quoted for the work,  Mr L has told us that the labour  costs 
were significantly outside the warrantys maximum claim  limits. Mr L says he wasnt in a position to 
cover the cost himself, so this work was not carried out.
It appears from call notes  supplied by Moneybarn, that further conversations took place with Mr L 
during September  and early  October  2017 in which  Mr L said he would  continue  to pursue the matter 
under the warranty  (which had an expiry date of January 2018). On 10 October  2017 Moneybarn 
issued a final response saying  it had closed  the complaint as it understood Mr L intended to pursue 
the matter under the warranty instead.
Mr L says he continued to have problems with the car after receiving the final response letter. In 
November 2017, having been unable  to find a garage that could repair the car within the warranty 
claim limits, Mr L went back to Moneybarn  and asked what  to do next as the car still wasnt working  
properly. 
Moneybarn asked Mr L to provide evidence of the faults, so Mr L provided a report  setting out a fault 
with the mechatronic unit. I understand  Mr L paid £66 for this diagnosis and report.
Following further email  correspondence during January and February, Moneybarn issued  another 
final response letter  on 2 March 2018,  in which  it explained it wasnt upholding  Mr Ls complaint.  
Moneybarn acknowledged it had received confirmation from the garage regarding problems  with the 
mechatronic unit, as identified in late 2017. But Moneybarn  didnt accept this was evidence  of a failing 
at the point  of sale, and said it thought it was more likely that the car had suffered a sudden  electrical 
failure, or had been subject  to normal wear and tear. 
Moneybarn also noted that it had been willing to help Mr L in August 2017 when he first raised  his 
concerns. But, as he didnt provide further information  at the time, and as Mr L had continued  to drive 
Ref: DRN40787803the car after this point  (potentially  making  the fault worse), Moneybarn said it was no longer 
responsible. Mr L didnt  agree, so he brought his complaint to us. I understand the car has not been  
driveable since May 2018.
Our investigator thought that the problems with the car were most likely  present at the point of sale. 
He pointed out that Mr L first mentioned problems  with the gearbox in August 2017, only shortly after 
the sale.  He accepted that Mr L didnt provide Moneybarn with diagnostic  evidence at this time,  but 
said that the later information from the garage in December 2017 supported Mr Ls initial  concerns, as 
it identified problems with the mechatronic unit  a unit located inside the gearbox. 
Our investigator also spoke to the garage that completed the report, who were unable to confirm a 
definitive link between their findings and the concerns Mr L raised shortly after the sale. However, 
they did confirm that the only fault they had identified  was linked to the gearbox.  Overall,  our 
investigator thought it was likely  that the problems  with Mr Ls car were  linked  to a defect that was 
present at the point of sale, rather than a sudden electrical failure or normal wear and tear. 
Our investigator thought a fault of this significance  meant the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality, given 
the price, age and mileage at the point of sale. So the investigator said that Moneybarn  should be 
responsible for funding the repairs.
Furthermore, although our investigator accepted that Mr L had used the car since August 2017,  he 
didnt think any unrelated problems had been identified  since that point. He pointed out that any 
further damage appeared to have been limited to the gearbox, which already required repair. As such, 
he argued that Moneybarn isnt in a worse  position now in having to repair the car, despite Mr Ls 
continuing to use the car in the interim  period. 
Our investigator therefore recommended that Moneybarn  repair the gearbox/mechatronics  unit at no 
cost to Mr L, and ensure  that Mr L was given  a courtesy  car to use until the repairs were completed.  
Moneybarn didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Im intending  to uphold this complaint, but Im proposing slightly different redress from that set out by 
our investigator. Ive explained my approach below.
Theres no dispute that Mr L complained about problems  with the gearbox  shortly after getting the car 
in July 2017. And the December 2017 report from the garage indicated  the only fault with the car was 
its mechatronic unit, which  is located inside the gearbox. 
Moneybarn has said it thinks the fault wasnt present at the point of sale, and that the car has either 
suffered a sudden electrical failure, or had been subject to normal wear and tear. Moneybarn also 
notes that Mr L has driven around 13,000 miles  since he first got the car. It says this wouldnt have 
been possible  if there was a fault present at the point of sale.  I disagree. A fault doesnt necessarily 
mean a car cant be driven, although a persistent fault may lead to this outcome. And Mr L first 
reported a suspected gearbox fault shortly after the sale, before this mileage was completed.
Moneybarn hasnt provided any further evidence  to support its view that the gearbox problems  
resulted from an electrical failure or wear and tear, and overall Im not persuaded by this argument. I 
find it more likely that the fault with the mechatronic unit was present when the car was sold and 
persisted until the point  it was diagnosed  by the garage.
It seems to me that, despite the fact Mr L was able to continue to use the car for some time,  the 
gearbox fault was significant. Even  though the car was second hand, given  the price  he paid for the 
Ref: DRN40787804car and its age and mileage  at the point of sale, I dont think this represents satisfactory  quality. So I 
think Moneybarn should take steps to repair  the fault. 
Moneybarn has said it wouldve been willing  to assist Mr L in August 2017, had this route been 
pursued earlier, and I have no reason  to doubt this. I have also considered whether Mr L has acted 
unreasonably or failed  to mitigate  his loss, thus putting  Moneybarn in an unfair position in terms of the 
repair work now due. But I dont think he has and Ill explain why.
Mr L reported his concerns  in the first few weeks and attempted to pursue the matter through  the 
appropriate channels. He took steps  to get the car repaired at an early stage, although this wasnt 
successful. When he later contacted Moneybarn he was told to provide evidence and so he took the 
car to a garage which confirmed the gearbox problems.
So it seems  to me that Mr L has acted  in good faith throughout this process. In any case, any 
additional damage that may have been done appears to have been limited  to the gearbox,  which was 
in need of repair from the outset. And I havent seen any evidence that the gearbox will cost more  to 
repair now than it wouldve done earlier.
Mr L has also incurred  various temporary repair and diagnosis charges during the course  of this 
complaint, which he wouldve avoided  had the fault not been present.  As such, Im minded  to ask 
Moneybarn to refund both the £35 Mr L was charged by the car servicing and repair  company, and 
the £66 cost of the diagnosis report that Moneybarn asked him to provide.
Furthermore, I think Mr L has incurred  trouble  and upset  as a result  of all the difficulties hes 
experienced with his car and the stress and inconvenience of attempting to resolve the faults. So Im 
intending to award £200 compensation  for this.
In summary, I intend  to instruct Moneybarn  to put things right as follows:
repair the gearbox/mechatronics unit at no cost to Mr L.
ensure that Mr L is given  a courtesy car to use (at no cost to him) until the repairs are 
completed.
refund Mr L any monthly payments  made  since  the car became unusable in May 2018 until 
the date that hes provided with a courtesy car, plus simple interest at 8% from the date of 
each payment until the date of settlement.
refund Mr L the £35 charge from the car servicing and repair company  and the £66 charge for 
the diagnosis report, plus simple interest at 8% from the date Mr L made  each  payment until 
the date of settlement.
pay Mr L £200 for the trouble and upset he has experienced.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to 
pay Mr L compensation in line with the instructions  set out above.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4078780