K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Northern Bank  Limited  mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a personal loan.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2000.           
Mrs S applied for the loan and was sold the PPI over the telephone.
The policy covered Mrs S for accident,  sickness and unemployment. It cost £12.65 per 
month. And if Mrs S had made  a successful claim, it would have paid her monthly loan 
repayments of £103  for up to 12 months if she lost her job, or until she returned to work (or, 
if earlier, until the loan was repaid) if shed become too unwell to work.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Northern Bank disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain  why.
I dont think Northern Bank gave Mrs S clear enough information about the policy,  
particularly about  the PPIs cost and benefit.
Northern Bank has told us Mrs S took out the loan and PPI over the telephone and she 
would likely  then have  been sent the loan agreement in the post to sign and return.
Northern Bank says that its normal sales process  at the time was for its adviser to tell Mrs S 
the PPI premium over the phone. But it hasnt shown us a call script  from the time to show 
what would  have been said. And theres  no recording of the call. So I cant safely say its 
more likely this process  wouldve been followed in Mrs Ss case.
Northern Bank has been  unable  to give me a copy of the actual credit agreement that Mrs S 
signed. But instead its provided  a sample  document from 1996. Although this provides the 
option to accept or decline  the PPI it doesnt seem to set out the premium. It also dates from 
several years before Mrs S took her loan so I cant attach  much weight to it.
Northern Bank has given me samples of several quotations that have been  in use for sales  
of PPI with loans in the past. And I can see these quotations set out the monthly cost of the 
PPI policy. But Northern  Bank has also said the PPI and loan were  agreed to over the 
phone. So I think  its unlikely that Mrs S saw any quotation document before she agreed to 
take PPI. So I dont think I can reasonably rely on the sample  quotations given to show     
Mrs S was told about the cost of the policy.
After considering everything provided  by Northern  Bank, Im not satisfied that I can safely 
say it gave Mrs S clear enough information  about  the cost of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN45630812Ive taken into account what Northern Bank has said about Mrs Ss circumstances, and the 
potential benefits  of the policy.  And Ive also taken into account  that Mrs S enjoyed good  sick 
pay benefits through her employer. Weighing everything up, Im not convinced, given how 
much the policy  cost compared with the potential monthly benefit,  that Mrs S would have 
thought the policy good value for money. So I dont think she would have chosen to take out 
the policy if clearer information had been given.
what the business should  do to put things right
Northern Bank should put Mrs S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Northern Bank  
should:
Pay Mrs S the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is and 8% a year .
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Northern Bank can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern  
Bank must give Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Northern Bank Limited 
to pay Mrs S compensation  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision 5 October 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4563081