K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt carry out proper  checks when he applied  for 
a loan. As a consequence,  he took out a loan he couldnt afford.
background
In July 2014 Mr M applied  online for an £8,000 loan with Bank of Scotland. His application 
was successful, and he was to pay just under £250  a month over 57 months.
Initially, Mr M was able to make repayments in line with the loan agreement, but by April 
2016 it appears that payments were  being returned, and in June 2016  he entered  into a trust 
deed. The bank  wrote off most of the outstanding  loan. 
Mr M later complained about  the loan. He said it would have been apparent when he took it 
out that his outgoings  exceeded  his income  and that he couldnt afford it. He says that the 
relatively high interest rate the bank was offering  over 26%  was evidence  that he was 
seen as a high credit risk. 
Bank of Scotland didnt accept what Mr M said. It said it would have carried out proper 
checks; further, since Mr M had applied  for the loan online, some responsibility for ensuring 
he could afford it lay with him. The bank did however offer Mr M £50, as it didnt feel it had 
handled the complaint as well as it could have done.  Mr M didnt think  that went far enough 
and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  feel however that it was apparent that the loan was unaffordable.  Mr 
Ms income appeared to exceed his outgoings.  He noted too that Mr M appeared to have 
used the loan to repay  other,  more  expensive debt; it didnt appear therefore that the loan 
made him any worse  off. Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions  and asked  that an 
ombudsman review the case  as the final stage in our consideration of it.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
I note that the bank  has said Mr M applied for the loan online and it was therefore for him to 
ensure that it was suitable. I understand its point here, but lenders should properly assess  
the affordability of a loan, however the application is made. And whilst Bank  of Scotland says 
it carried out checks, it hasnt been able to demonstrate exactly  what  checks it made  when 
Mr M took the loan out.  
Mr M has pointed  out as well that he had a number of other loans at the time, including  with 
pay day lenders. So there  were  signs that he might find it difficult  to repay the new loan. But, 
as the investigator  identified, it seems that much  of the loan was used to repay  Mr Ms 
existing debt. I agree with the investigator that this indicates that Mr M was using the bank 
loan to help him to manage existing debt and, indeed, to reduce his overall outgoings.  So, if 
Bank of Scotland had declined the loan application, it seems  very likely that Mr Ms financial 
position would have been no better and may have been significantly worse than it was. 
Its true as well that the bank offered the loan at a higher interest rate than it was offering  to 
many customers and that interest rates are calculated in part on the basis  of perceived risk. 
Ref: DRN49664952But I dont believe I can fairly conclude that the offer of a relatively high rate means the bank 
thought the loan wasnt affordable.
Finally, Ive considered  the relevance  of the trust deed that Mr M entered  into in 2016.  The 
effect of that is that the bank has written off most of the outstanding loan. No doubt other 
creditors found themselves in a similar position.  So, if I were  minded to make an award in Mr 
Ms favour, I would need to consider what effect  that might have on other  creditors.   Overall 
though, I agree with the investigator that, in all the circumstances, I cant say that Bank of 
Scotland was wrong to make  the loan available to Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4966495