K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about charges applied to her accounts by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Ms N had two accounts with RBS. One was closed in 2012  (Ill call this Account 1). The 
other was transferred to RBS Recoveries department in 2014 (Ill call this Account 2). In 
March 2019 Ms N complained to RBS about charges applied  to the accounts. 
RBS didnt uphold  the complaint. They said the charges  had been  applied in line with their 
terms and conditions without any error.  But they said theyd refunded  most of the charges  
applied to Account  2, and some charges applied to Account  1, as a gesture  of goodwill. They  
didnt think they needed to make  any further refunds to Ms N.
Ms N wasnt  happy with RBS response, so she brought her complaint  to this service.  Our 
investigator explained that we could only look at charges applied to the accounts in the six 
years before Ms N brought  her complaint. So he looked at the charges  which  had been 
applied in the period  from March 2013  onwards.
Ms N said that, when she exceeded her overdraft limit, RBS would write to her. She said 
they charged her £30 for each letter  as well as applying an overdraft fee to her account. She 
said the charges  added to her debt and caused  financial hardship. She wants RBS to refund 
the charges.
RBS said they didnt make a charge  for any letters sent to Ms N. They said that the fees applied 
to Account  2 related mainly to unarranged  overdrafts  and unpaid transactions.  They said that no 
charges have been applied since 2014,  when Account  2 was referred to Recoveries. 
Our investigator thought that RBS had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do anything.  But 
Ms N didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She says 
the charges were excessive, caused  her financial hardship and have affected her credit  file. 
And she says RBS ignored her requests for help.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigators conclusion that we can only look at charges  applied from 
March 2013 onwards. So Im only looking at fees and charges applied to Account  2 here. 
Thats because Account 1 was closed  in 2012.
The type of charges Ms N is complaining about  were considered  by a court case  in 2009, 
which concluded that they couldnt be challenged on the basis that theyre unfair  or too high. 
Although I am not limited  to the position a court might reach, I havent seen anything  here to 
suggest that the charges  were unfair.  So Im not going to ask RBS to refund any charges on 
that basis.
Ref: DRN47245342Ive gone on to consider whether the charges were applied correctly.  I havent seen anything 
to indicate that RBS didnt  apply the charges in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
account. And I havent seen any evidence of charges  made in relation to letters sent to 
Ms N. From the information available to me, Im satisfied that the charges were applied  
correctly. So Im not going to ask RBS to refund  them on this basis either.
Ive also considered what Ms N has said about her financial  situation.  Where a customer is 
experiencing financial difficulties, I would expect  a bank to treat them  positively and 
sympathetically. Ms N says the charges caused  her financial hardship and that RBS ignored 
her requests  for help. From the information  available  to me, Im satisfied that no charges 
have been applied to Ms Ns account since February 2014. And I havent seen anything  
which indicates that Ms N told RBS at any time before  then that she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. So I cant fairly conclude that RBS knew  of Ms Ns financial hardship  or 
failed to act appropriately.
In any event, RBS have refunded the majority of the charges applied to Account  2. I think 
thats a fair approach. But, because I dont  think they applied the charges unfairly or 
incorrectly, Im not going to ask them to refund any more charges. And I dont think they 
need to do anything else here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4724534