K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained about the service they received when they sought  
assistance under their European Breakdown cover  policy with RAC Insurance  Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs N were travelling with their young  family in Europe in August 2017. Unfortunately 
their vehicle broke down  on a private  motorway and they contacted  RAC for assistance.
Mr and Mrs Ns car was eventually repatriated after Mr and Mrs N and their family  returned 
home. They made a number of complaints to RAC about the service  they received. 
RAC said it made some mistakes and caused some delay in delivering their car to a garage  
for diagnosis. It apologised and paid Mr and Mrs N £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs N didnt think this was enough, so they asked us to look at their complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that although RAC had failed to provide a good service at times, 
overall it had done enough to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. So theyd like an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can appreciate having  read Mr and Mrs Ns detailed  timeline  that the experience  of 
breaking down  abroad  with a young  family was stressful  and inconvenient.  I think RAC at 
times added to their inconvenience. Ive focused on the key issues  rather than repeat the 
detailed view the adjudicator gave. I understand Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed, but I 
agree with his findings. 
I think RAC caused a delay in providing a taxi to accommodate  their family of five along with 
their luggage  on the day of the breakdown. And I think RAC failed to call Mr and Mrs N back  
on a number of occasions  so Mr and Mrs N had to call RAC for an update.  
It was a peak holiday  period and so RAC was unable to find Mr and Mrs N a seven seater 
hire car as soon as it might have at another time of year. And because they broke down at 
the weekend (on a Saturday), it wasnt possible to tow Mr and Mrs Ns car to a garage as 
they were closed until the following week. I think RAC  caused  a further delay here which it 
accepts. So Mr and Mrs Ns car wasnt delivered  to a garage for diagnosis until four days  
after the breakdown.
I can see that Mr and Mrs N unfortunately experienced a further breakdown on the Friday 
after collecting their car from the garage - and this led to further problems obtaining  a 
replacement hire car. Mr and Mrs N are very unhappy with its many telephone calls with 
RACs office abroad.
Ref: DRN42288652As there are no call recordings available, RAC has provided its call log. From this, I think that 
for the most  part, RAC  acted fairly  and in line with the terms of the policy. And as the garage 
isnt an agent  of RACs, it isnt responsible for the repairs carried  out. 
Mr and Mrs N said they were  forced  to extend their holiday  time because of RACs poor 
service. It wants RAC to compensate them for loss of earnings  and annual leave. But I think  
RAC explained to Mr and Mrs N in their initial call that it would be unlikely that their car 
would be repaired before they were  due to leave  on the Tuesday. And as they covered the 
costs of their extended stay, and repatriation, I think RAC did enough  here. 
Overall I think  RACs poor service at times  made an already difficult experience worse. But I 
also think that RAC isnt responsible for all of the things that went wrong: for example the 
issues with the garage  repairs  and availability of a seven seater hire car. So I think  RACs 
apology and compensation  of £200 in recognition of the inconvenience it caused  is fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4228865