K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited took too long to refund money 
remaining in her closed  account. 
background 
Mrs S had a credit  card account with Creation. In May 2011, Mrs S cleared the balance of 
her account  and closed the account,  leaving a credit  balance  of £170.42.
Creation agreed  to refund Mrs S the balance  on her account but didnt  do so. So she brought  
her complaint to this service. An investigator  looked  into Mrs Ss complaint and said Creation 
should refund her the outstanding balance. 
The investigator also said Creation should pay Mrs S 8% simple interest on the balance  
which amounted  to £123.52  and £100  compensation for the delay. Creation agreed  and 
asked the investigator  to provide Mrs Ss bank details so that it could make the payment to 
her. The investigator  provided the information  to Creation and it paid Mrs S £170.42  in 
March 2018. However,  it failed to pay the 8% interest and compensation. 
One of our investigators  contacted Creation on several occasions to try and arrange for the 
outstanding payment to be made  to Mrs S. He also said that Creation should pay Mrs S an 
additional £150 to reflect the further  delays in trying to sort things  out. Creation didnt 
respond. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has accepted  it made a mistake  when it failed to repay  Mrs Ss closing balance.  
And it accepted what the investigator said  that Creation shouldve  refunded Mrs Ss money 
sooner than it did. Creation also has agreed to pay Mrs S 8% interest and compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by the delay. 
Having looked  at whats happened  here Im satisfied that Creation  should have provided 
Mrs S with better service.   I can see that Mrs S has made numerous phone  calls and written 
letters to try and sort things out with Creation. And Ive also kept in mind that it has taken 
quite some time to sort things out. So Im satisfied Mrs S has been caused  some worry and 
inconvenience. 
Overall, having reviewed all the information  relating to this case, I think that £250  is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Mrs S for the trouble and upset resulting from Creations 
failings in this case. If it hasnt already  done  so, Creation should also pay Mrs S interest at 
8% per year simple  on the balance of her account, £170.42, from May 2011 until the date of 
settlement. The reasoning  behind this is that Mrs S shouldve had access  to the money. And 
if shed had the money returned she wouldve made  use of that money sooner.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN48698422Creation Financial Services Limited should  pay Mrs S a total of £250  to compensate  her for 
the trouble and upset caused by Creation  taking  too long to return  money  to her. 
Creation Financial Services Limited should  also pay Mrs S 8% simple interest from May 
2011 until the date of settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  by 12 August 2019.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Ankita Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4869842