K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that U K Insurance  Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) replaced her 
windscreen under her motor insurance  policy  with one that wasnt  a manufacturer original.
background
In January 2019, Miss A made a claim  for windscreen damage on her motor  insurance 
policy. She was referred to UKIs  authorised repairers, a third party  that I will call 
company A. She says company A told her the glass couldnt  be repaired and had to be 
replaced. She says she was assured  by the technician at company A that the new 
windscreen would be the same  as the original  windscreen.
Miss A says the replaced windscreen wasnt the same,  its rain sensors  didnt work  and it 
didnt clear the same way. She also said the tint wasnt the same colour as the replaced 
windscreen, so she complained to both company A and UKI. 
UKI say they have  acted in accordance with the policy and replaced Miss As car with a 
similar standard windscreen. They also say the manufacturer no longer makes the same 
windscreen that Miss A originally had. Unsatisfied with this response, Miss A brought her 
complaint to this service.  But they offered Miss A £50 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of poor communication. 
Our investigator said that the windscreen  had been repaired in accordance with the policy  
terms and conditions. She accepted that the technician  at company A may have said it was 
the same  as the original windscreen  and didnt mention that it would be an equivalent model.  
She said there was no dispute that the windscreen theyd fitted  wasnt  a genuine 
manufacturer product, but under  the policy terms UKI are not obliged to provide a 
manufacturers windscreen. She said that company As offer of £50 compensation for poor 
communication to Miss A was fair.
Miss A didnt agree so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  it should be 
upheld. I will explain  why.
Our role here is to decide the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances. And this 
may well involve directing  a business to do something to make  things right.  Part of that is 
deciding whether it has applied the policy terms reasonably.
So, Ive looked  at the terms  and conditions of Miss As motor insurance  policy. Page 15 of 
the policy booklet says:-
We may decide to repair  your car with parts which have not been made by your 
cars manufacturer but which are of a similar standard,  including recycled  parts.
The policy terms say that UKI may decide to use parts of a similar standard  to the original 
when carrying out repairs. It is clear UKI were not under an obligation to provide an original  
manufacturer windscreen, they only had to replace  it with one of similar standards. I 
Ref: DRN46841052appreciate Miss A wanted an original  manufacturer windscreen and it wasnt made clear that 
she would  get an equivalent model. This may have resulted in her belief she was getting an 
original manufacturer  windscreen. What added to this was that the manufacturer  told Miss A 
that it wasnt the genuine manufacturer windscreen  and so she felt company A had replaced 
it with the wrong  windscreen. But this isnt the case and the evidence  Ive seen confirms that 
it was the correct windscreen  for that car, just not the manufacturers original.
Miss A complained that the rain sensors were not working properly, but this was covered 
under the warranty  with company A and I understand that this issue is now resolved.
Miss A also complained  the tint on the window wasnt the same.  The manufacturer  says 
when glass is produced it is supplied in batches and as a result of this there  can often be 
variances in the tint of glass. Any replacement cant be guaranteed  to be exactly the same 
as the original glass fitted. They  also say that the glass can often darken over. This is most 
probable cause for a colour variation in the new replacement windscreen. The manufacturer 
has confirmed the windscreen that she originally had on the car was no longer in production 
so theres no guarantee she would have been able to replace the windscreen with one that 
was exactly the same.  
The only difference is that the replaced windscreen  didnt have the manufacturers stamped  
branding as you would expect with the manufacturers one. But as Ive explained above, UKI 
were not obliged to do this. Miss A told us she would pay towards  replacing the windscreen 
with a manufacturer one. I can see in UKIs file notes that this was discussed,  and Miss A 
wasnt prepared to pay the difference between company  As windscreen and the 
manufacturers replacement cost.  But I think  Miss A would never have gone for the 
manufacturer option if it had all been properly explained because of the cost and the fact that 
at the time shed  have been  correctly  told the replacement version is really just as good. 
I know Miss A will be disappointed with my decision,  but the evidence I have seen shows 
that the replacement windscreen was the equivalent model to the manufacturers one and so, 
I think its fair to say that UKI did replace the windscreen in accordance with the terms of the 
policy and dont need to do more.
Having looked  at everything I think  Miss A would have opted for this windscreen anyway and 
so I think Company As offer of £50 compensation for the poor communication and 
inconvenience shes suffered is reasonable. I leave it to Miss A to decide  whether she now 
wants to accept this offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4684105