K822xcomplaint
Mr S complaint, brought  on behalf of himself and his late wife, Mrs S, is about the 
compensation paid by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) for a mis-sold mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out some additional finance linked to their mortgage in 2000  and at the 
same time bought  a MPPI policy. Mr S was the only named person with cover  on the policy. 
BOS has now upheld  that the policy was mis-sold  and paid compensation. It paid 50% of the 
compensation to Mr S and the other 50% to the estate of Mrs S. Although only Mr S was 
covered to claim on the policy, the benefit of the policy was to cover a joint mortgage, so 
both Mr and Mrs S were entitled to a share of the compensation.  
Mr S has also been paid a backdated claim on the MPPI and he says Mrs S should also 
have been able to make a similar claim. Additionally, he was unhappy  that no additional  
compensation had been  paid for the stress, upset and financial problems he says were 
caused by the mis-sold MPPI.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2019. There has been  a delay in 
issuing this final decision as Mr S requested more time to consider the provisional  decision 
and prepare his response. 
BOS has indicated it has nothing further to submit. Mr S has replied in some  detail to my 
provisional decision indicating he does not agree with my findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that I am not looking at any issues  about  staff 
competency at BOS  at the time the MPPI  was sold or any issues Mr S may have with BOS 
other than in relation to the MPPI.  I am strictly considering the MPPI policy  and as the policy 
had been deemed mis-sold, the amount of compensation due for the mis-sale  of the MPPI.
Mr S has in his response to my provisional  decision  made  points about  the process of his 
complaint by this service  and again  raised numerous issues  about the business that are not 
directly related to the sale of the MPPI  and the compensation due for the mis-sold policy. In 
this decision I am not responding  to or dealing with any points other than those directly 
related to the MPPI  policy  and the compensation due. All other  issues  have to be dealt  with 
separately.
I am aware  that Mr S has some health  problems and we have tried to take these fully into 
account when  dealing with this complaint. I know there have  been  times when he has 
requested no contact but the nature of the processes we have in place has regrettable at 
times sent out update  correspondence. I have delayed my final decision to allow  Mr S time 
to consider his response as he requested. But it is for the benefit of all parties,  including  
Mr S, that this matter  is resolved so everyone can move on.
Ref: DRN41085882In my provisional decision I found  that:-
Mrs S was not covered in her own name  by any MPPI policy.
It was unlikely Mrs S was eligible for a MPPI policy at the time Mr and Mrs S took out 
the additional borrowings, so no damages  are due for her not being covered  by a 
policy in her own name.
As Mrs S didnt have  policy cover  in her name, no backdated  claim can be made.  
An the MPPI sold to cover Mr S was found to be mis-sold compensation was due 
based on refunding the full costs of the MPPI and paying compensatory  interest  for 
periods when Mr and Mrs S were  out of pocket.
No claims  would have  been  possible if the MPPI  had never been sold,  therefore any 
claims paid can be deducted  from the mis-sale compensation.
Mr S received more  in claims than the MPPI  compensation  comes  to. Therefore BOS 
has set the MPPI compensation due to Mr S against the claims paid.
The compensation due to Mrs S as a beneficiary  under the policy, due to being a 
joint borrower, was paid to her estate.
BOS made some  errors in its calculations but these caused no loss or detriment to 
Mr and Mrs S as it seems more compensation was paid overall  as a result.
There was no evidence to show payment  of the MPPI premium each month whilst 
the insurance was active, was the direct cause of any financial or health problems to 
Mr and Mrs S.
Therefore I considered  that what BOS had paid in compensation was fair and I was not 
intending to tell BOS to do anything  more without any further evidence.
I have looked  in detail at Mr S response to my provisional decision.  I will respond  to specific 
points about the PPI that he has raised  to hopefully clarify my findings.  But I would reassure 
Mr S that even though I may not cover a specific point I have taken everything he has said 
into consideration in reaching this final decision.
The MPPI and loan were  taken out in 2000, which was some 20 years ago. Mr S has 
indicated his recollections of the timing, process and what he believes was said by BOS  to 
both himself and his wife at the time at various meetings. Memories  can become less 
reliable over time. So whilst considering what has been provided as verbal  testimony by 
Mr S, Ive given more weight to what the documents from the time of the sale indicate.
One of the main issues Mr S has is in relation to MPPI to cover  his wife. I have noted  
everything he has said but no new evidence has been provided to show  that there  was a 
policy in place to cover Mrs S or that she ever requested or applied for a MPPI policy.
In his response to my provisional decision I note Mr S reference to the final response letter 
from BOS dated 15 November 2018.  The letter said the policy  was held in joint names until 
20 December 2008. Mr S has interpreted  the wording here to mean that his wife had cover 
in her own right under  the MPPI policy. That was not the case. The reason for this statement 
was to clarify  why 50% of the redress was being  paid to Mrs S. The benefits of the policy 
were held jointly as Mrs S was also a joint borrower  of the loan so would benefit if Mr S had 
made a claim. 
BOS clarified this in a letter  dated 30 January 2019, after Mr S had complained, to indicate 
that Mrs S was named  on a mortgage which the PPI policy  was protecting  Mrs S was 
not personally covered by the insurance .
Ref: DRN41085883As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mrs S was not named as having her own cover to 
claim on by any MPPI policy that I have  seen. Mr S had a policy  providing 100% of the cover 
to him alone  and Mrs S was able to benefit  from that if Mr S made an eligible claim. 
Whatever Mr S thought  had happened  there is no evidence to show Mrs S applied for a 
MPPI policy or ever had cover in her own name.  
The documents presented to date from the time of the sale indicate  that Mrs S was most 
likely not employed  when the MPPI policy sold. Therefore she would  not have been eligible 
to take out cover for herself with this type of insurance. 
The Home  Cash Reserve Application form, signed by both Mr and Mrs S on 
15 December 2000, has nothing entered as income for Mrs S. So at the time this was signed 
it seems most likely Mrs S was not working  and had no income  to declare. I would confirm 
this form was signed on 15 December 2000 not 12 December 2000as  I stated in my 
provisional decision. This was a typing error but does not in any way affect my findings about 
Mrs S having no MPPI cover.
I have seen nothing  to show that Mrs S requested or had any MPPI in her own name. There  
is no application form indicating she had cover under a policy  where both Mr and Mrs S had 
a specified share of any cover. And I have seen  no record of a policy being issued to cover 
her to claim  in her own right. There is nothing to indicate Mrs S ever attempted to make a 
claim on the policy and that was declined. Therefore as no MPPI was in place, no 
retrospective claim can be made on behalf  of Mrs S.
I cannot see that any damages are due for her not being covered by a policy  in her own 
right. There  is no documented evidence to actually  show she ever applied for MPPI in her 
name. 
Mr S says he believed the policy was being taken out to cover both Mr and Mrs S. But the 
actual application  form and other  documents  give no indication of this. Mr S says his wife 
was mis-sold  MPPI  as she had a need  that was not delivered on. But if no policy  was sold 
it cannot be found to be mis-sold.
BOS has admitted it mis-sold the MPPI that covered  Mr S so it is responsible for 
compensation for that mis-sale. 
I think the compensation paid to Mr and Mrs S for the mis-sale is fair, especially taking 
account of the fact that some premiums  for the period after April 2013 appear to have been 
refunded twice as the underwriter also refunded premiums that should not have been paid 
after this date.
As no claims  would  have been  possible  if the MPPI had never  been  sold, then any claims 
paid to Mr S can be deducted from the mis-sale  compensation.  BOS had done this with 
Mr S share of the mis-sale  compensation which  meant he didnt get paid any of the 
compensation as it was less than the total amounts of all his claims.
Mrs S compensation, as a beneficiary under  the policy covering a joint mortgage, has been 
paid to her estate.
BOS did make some errors in its calculations. But none of the errors  resulted in any 
detriment to Mr and Mrs S. It seems the opposite has occurred  as more has been paid out in 
compensation overall than should have  been.
Ref: DRN41085884Mr S has provided some  extracts  of the calculations he received  in relation to the backdated 
claims he made. He considers these indicate he may have paid more  tax than he needed to.  
If Mr S has any concerns that he has overpaid tax on the compensatory interest paid,  then 
he would  need  to raise this and seek a refund from HM Revenue  and Customs (HMRC).  If 
he needs a certificate  of tax paid, BOS should provide this to him.
I would also add that I have independently  viewed all the evidence  about the matter and 
reached my own conclusions giving consideration to the facts before me. There are times  
when the evidence available is not totally clear cut and so I have to take the approach of 
what is most likely  to have happened  based  on what information was available.
If Mr S remains unhappy with the outcome  I have  reached he does not have  to accept my 
decision and can seek to take the matter  through the courts and legal system if he chooses.  
As neither party has provided any new evidence in response to my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to change  the findings  I made  in that decision. I therefore  find that  there  is 
no clear evidence to show  Mrs S ever applied  for or had a MPPI policy covering her in her 
name. So no back dated claim can be made. 
Also the MPPI was mis-sold  to Mr S and the compensation calculated and paid by BOS to 
Mr and Mrs S, taking  into account the backdated  claims made, is fair in all the 
circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, I am not upholding this complaint. I think what  Bank  of Scotland 
plc has done is fair and I am not telling it to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  on behalf of both Mr S and the late 
Mrs S, Im required  to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4108588