K820x#14complaint
Miss H complained because Santander  UK Plc sent her mortgage account  to solicitors.
She wants her mortgage to be taken back from solicitors, and the related fees refunded.
background
Miss H took a mortgage with Santander  in 2003. From 2005 onwards, Miss H made 
payments sporadically,  and arrears built up. Sometimes Miss H cleared her arrears but then 
they built up again. As a result, Santander referred  Miss Hs mortgage  to litigation solicitors 
in January 2013 and July 2016. 
The arrears  continued.  There were various phone calls between Santander and Miss H 
throughout 2017. Miss H explained that she was self-employed and her income irregular. 
Miss H continued to have  difficulty  meeting her payments and her arrears increased.  
At the end of September  2017 Miss H told Santander her work contract had ended, but she 
hoped to be working again  soon.  An income  and expenditure assessment showed  a monthly 
deficit of over £3,000.  Santander gave Miss H a zero repayment plan for November and 
December.
Miss H started working again in late January 2018,  but she wasnt willing to complete 
another income and expenditure assessment with Santander.
In early February, Santander asked Miss H to get in touch about her arrears of over £5,000.  
It said that without any further  action,  Miss Hs account might  be referred to its legal team, 
which would mean  shed be charged with legal fees and costs. Miss H rang and an 
arrangement was set up for February  and March.
At the end of February,  Miss H said shed been  paid less than she expected and couldnt 
meet the arrangement.  She wasnt willing to complete another  income  and expenditure form. 
In late March, Miss H said that shed  been  on an emergency tax code with her new employer 
but her tax should  be sorted out in May. She wasnt willing to complete an income and 
expenditure check until it was resolved. A one-month arrangement was agreed for a 
payment on 3 May.
On 5 May,  Santander  wrote to Miss H asking her to contact the bank so her payment 
arrangement could be reviewed. It also sent a text to Miss H asking her to ring. The content 
of that text message is disputed. Santanders version is that it said: This is an urgent 
message for [Miss Hs name]. Please call [number]. This is not a sales call. Miss Hs 
version is that it just said: Please call us on [number]. 
Miss H didnt ring Santander. The bank rang her mobile on 8 and 9 May but didnt get an 
answer. It sent another  text on 9 May.  
Santander continued to try to reach  Miss H. It recorded that it rang her mobile  number on 13 
occasions between  8 and 14 May. The calls werent answered except one where a third 
party said it was the wrong number. 
Santander referred Miss Hs account  to solicitors for litigation on 18 May.
Ref: DRN42088652Miss H was unhappy about this. She spoke  to Santander in late May and the bank told her 
that shed need to discuss future arrangements with the solicitors.  She spoke to the solicitors  
and told them shed  received a text from Santander  which had asked her to call, but it had 
said alternatively well call again  at another time.  She complained.
Santander didnt  uphold Miss Hs complaint. It said that it had written to her on 5 May asking 
her to get in touch,  and had sent a text message saying it was urgent and asking her to ring. 
Santander said it had made 13 attempts to phone Miss H, including some  after the text 
which she said shed received.
Miss H wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. He noted that Miss H had told us that she 
could receive texts on her phone  but not calls. Shed asked why Santander hadnt rung her 
landline if it was urgent,  but couldnt remember if shed given Santander the number. The 
banks records showed that it wasnt until August 2018  after the events complained of  
that Santander had been told Miss H couldnt  receive calls on her mobile.
The adjudicator found that as Miss H had received  texts, shed known  Santander had been 
trying to get in touch.  Her account had been  in arrears for some time,  and shed  known her 
previous payment arrangement was coming to an end. Santander  had said it had tried to 
ring Miss H multiple times between 8 and 14 May.  So he considered the bank had done 
enough to try to contact  Miss H.
Miss H wasnt  satisfied.  She said the adjudicator  hadnt focused on the complaint shed 
raised with us. She said that the litigation solicitors had told her that Santander often 
reviewed cases and returned them to themselves. Miss H said the solicitors had suggested 
she should wait a few months  to see if that applied to her, so shed taken their advice. 
Miss H disagreed about the wording of the 5 May text  as Ive recorded  above. Miss H said 
the messages  shed  had were obviously standard texts and shed have  phoned Santander if 
it had sent the urgent  message it had claimed. 
In response to Santander saying it had made 13 attempts  to contact her, Miss H said there  
were various reasons  why she hadnt  replied. This included:
-During 2017 and 2018, Santander staff had told her to ignore its standard letters  and 
texts;
-From  January 2018 shed been  employed  and was using a work mobile, so she 
wasnt using her personal mobile  on a day-to-day basis;
-She didnt know her monthly salary until a few days before she was paid on 27th of 
each month. Shed  explained this to Santander and this was why she couldnt  review 
payments any earlier  than when she had rung, at the end of May.
Miss H said she felt aggrieved that Santander  had referred her mortgage  to solicitors. She 
said it wasnt necessary, was unfair, and she felt extremely bitter that shed been let down by 
Santander. She said that neither the solicitors nor our adjudicator  had clearly explained her 
case to Santander.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42088653To set this complaint in context, Miss Hs mortgage  had been in arrears for a number of 
years. Shed  also had her mortgage referred  to solicitors twice before. There had been 
multiple payment  arrangements,  some  of which had been broken. And the contact notes 
show that there had been previous occasions  when Santander had sent Miss H a text and 
she had responded with a phone call  for example  on 2 March  2018. 
So I find that Miss H should reasonably have been  aware that a referral  to solicitors was 
action which  Santander  would consider taking  and that her mortgage  arrears were 
longstanding, so she needed to contact  Santander when it got in touch to ask her to do so.
I note that in her response to the adjudicators view, Miss H argued  that both Santanders 
staff and the litigation solicitors told her to ignore standard letters and texts. This isnt a 
complaint she raised with the bank first, as the procedures  require before this service can 
consider it. So strictly  speaking, I cant comment on this. But I find it implausible that 
Santander and its litigation  solicitors would have told Miss H to ignore their letters and texts,  
especially in the context of her longstanding and significant arrears.  
Ive considered Miss Hs argument that she couldnt  receive phone  calls on her mobile,  only 
texts, after she started  her new job in January 2018. But Miss H hasnt  said that she told 
Santander this, and nor did she provide alternative  contact  details.  There  is also nothing  on 
the banks records  which show that she did. So I find that Santander couldnt have known 
that its 13 calls hadnt got through  especially  as Miss H did agree that shed received texts 
on the same  number. 
Ive noted above that theres  a dispute about the detail of Santanders May 2018 texts.  Miss 
H has said that she would have phoned Santander  if the wording had been what Santander 
had said  in other  words,  if it had said it was urgent. But I consider that, whichever wording 
was sent, Miss H ought reasonably to have been  aware that when Santander  asked her to 
get in touch about her mortgage, she needed to do so.
Miss H has also said that she couldnt discuss her mortgage payments with Santander until 
the end of each month, when she knew what shed been paid. But the record of discussions 
between Miss H and Santander shows there had been ongoing discussions about her 
mortgage at different dates in the month,  even after she started her new job in January 
2018. Even if Miss H hadnt been  able to give exact figures before the end of the month, I 
consider she ought reasonably to have  responded to Santanders requests for contact.
So Ive considered whether Santander  did anything wrong in referring Miss Hs account to 
litigation solicitors. I find that it didnt do anything wrong. Lenders have the right to take legal 
action where they feel the conduct of the account merits it, including referring  it to a third 
party organisation to manage the account. Miss Hs mortgage met the banks internal criteria 
for referral. And her arrears were  longstanding and significant in amount. Santander had 
tried repeatedly to contact  her on a number which had been used before, and which  Miss H 
hadnt told Santander was no longer appropriate.  Whatever the exact  content  of the disputed 
texts, Miss H knew Santander wanted  her to ring, but she hadnt done  so.
So I find that Santander was entitled to refer Miss Hs mortgage to solicitors,  and I do not 
require it either to take back the account, or to refund the related fees.
Ref: DRN42088654my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4208865