K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about the service  she received from HSBC  UK Bank  Plc.
background
Ms W complains about the following issues in relation to her account with HSBC:
Double charge  by online food delivery company
Unable to send  secure messages
Online retailer refusing to refund her for non delivery
Complicated banking  app
Customer Service failing to answer her on social media
Customer Service asking her to call
Being  placed  on hold for a long time
Text messages warning her that she might incur overdraft fees
In its final response letter  HSBC provided  details  of the transactions  with the online 
merchants. It explained  that its social media  staff didnt have access  to customer  accounts 
and wouldnt  be aware of a customers personal  circumstances. It acknowledged that when  
Ms W called the call had taken longer than expected because she failed  telephone  security.  
It said it had sent a text message to Ms W warning her that a purchase shed made would 
take her over her agreed overdraft limit and giving her the opportunity  to arrange  a transfer 
of funds to avoid incurring overdraft fees.
Our investigator explained to Ms W that complaint  points 2, 4, 5 and 8 were being  dealt with 
by this service under  a separate complaint reference  2194-2896.  
In relation to complaint points 1,3,6,7 and 9, the investigator said that the statements 
provided showed that there hadnt been  a double  charge by the online food delivery 
company and that Ms W had been  refunded by the online retailer.  
The investigator didnt  think the banks social media staff had acted unreasonably by asking 
Ms W to send  a secure message when  she made  it clear that she was unable to call. The 
investigator said that in relation to calls,  establishing  a customers identity was important and 
this was why the telephone security procedure was in place.  
The investigator said that HSBC hadnt  done anything wrong in the way it notified Ms W 
about exceeding her overdraft limit and the potential fees she might  incur. Overall the 
investigator didnt  think  that HSBC  needed  to do anything further. 
Ms W didnt  agree. She said the investigator  hadnt addressed  complaint  points  2, 5 and 8. 
She was unhappy  that shed been  given less than 2 hours to bring her account  back  into line 
when she received the text about overdraft  fees.  She also said shed been on hold for 40 
minutes when she called the bank  and this was before  she went  through the security 
procedure.
Ms W also said she wanted to withdraw  complaint points 1 and 3.
Ref: DRN49283242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to Ms Ws comments that the investigator  didnt address complaint  points  2, 5 and 
8, I can confirm that these  complaint points are being dealt with under a separate complaint 
with this service under  reference 2194-2896.
Ms W has said she wishes to withdraw  complaint points  1 and 3. So I wont  be focussing on 
these two points  but will instead focus  on points 6, 7 and 9. 
Complaint point 6
Ms W is unhappy  that during her social media  communications with HSBC  she was asked to 
call the bank. Ms W has explained to this service that she has a disability which  makes it 
difficult for her to make calls. I can see that as soon as Ms W advised HSBC  about her 
disability, it asked her to send a secure  message instead. I appreciate  that Ms W has also 
experienced difficulties with secure messaging and has raised  a complaint about this. But I 
cant see that HSBC  was aware of Ms Ws difficulties wit secure messaging at the time, so I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for it to ask Ms W to communicate in this way.
Ms W is unhappy  that HSBC has responded to her via social  media on previous occasions. 
She doesnt think its fair that the bank can change its mind about  communicating  in this 
way. I understand  Ms Ws frustration.  But one of the difficulties in communicating via social 
media is that the banks social media  staff dont always have access to a customers 
account. So it isnt always possible  to deal with queries  sent via social  media without 
obtaining further information from the customer in a secure  way - either  by telephone or via a 
secure message.
On balance, and whilst  I appreciate Ms Ws  frustration, I cant say that HSBC  has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
Complaint point 7
Ms W is unhappy  that she was on hold for a long time when she called the bank. I 
appreciate that it can be frustrating trying to telephone a large organisation and its often the 
case that customers have  to wait longer than theyd  like before being  connected to an 
advisor. Its possible that Ms W was unlucky  and called at a particularly busy time. I dont 
think the bank  would  expect customers to wait for 40 minutes before being connected and 
its unfortunate that Ms W experienced such a delay in her call being answered. However, I 
havent seen any evidence that the bank deliberately made Ms W wait or that there was any 
technical reason  for the delay. Therefore I cant say the bank has done anything  wrong here.
Complaint point 9
Ms W is unhappy  about the text message she received from the bank when she made a 
purchase which would have taken her over her agreed overdraft limit. She says the tone of 
the text affected  her mental health.
Ref: DRN49283243I understand that it can be worrying to receive  a text from the bank when you arent 
expecting it. Ive looked at the text which was sent to Ms W and whilst I dont doubt that she 
was affected in the way shes described, I dont  think theres anything about  the text which  is 
threatening in tone.  
The message advises Ms W that her overdraft limit is about to be exceeds and gives her the 
opportunity to do something  about it to avoid  incurring fees. Ive noted Ms Ws comments  
that she felt under pressure to find money to transfer  to her account within a short space of 
time. Ultimately though,  its Ms Ws responsibility to ensure that she has sufficient funds in 
her account  to cover any purchases she makes.
Taking everything into account,  Im unable to uphold  the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4928324