K820x#14Let me start by apologising for the length  of time it has taken us to reach this stage of our 
process. 
complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. This complaint 
deals with the merits of the complaint that has been  brought to us; whether the PPI was mis-
sold to Mr and Mrs G.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when neither party  is sure how the sale was 
made. And its maybe  not surprising  thats  the case and that neither party has been  able to 
provide much documentation from the time, as these events happened over 20 years ago. I 
can see that the cover was ticked for by the adviser  on the loan assessment form. And 
theres an illustration for the cover. So it seems most likely that this was discussed  at the 
time of the sale. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr and Mrs G aware the PPI 
was optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint  on this point.  So, having considered all the 
submissions I have  received in this case,  I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made 
Mr and Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though  
they may not remember that now, many years  later. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. This meant  Lloyds needed to take 
reasonable steps to find out about  their needs and make sure the policy was suitable  for 
them. 
Ref: DRN47431262I think Lloydss recommendation was right for Mr and Mrs G, based  on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
It seems  most likely that Mr G alone  was covered by the policy  as Mrs G was not in 
paid employment  at the time of the sale. Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr G 
wasnt eligible for the policy. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been affected  by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, for example,  any unusual  employment 
terms or pre-existing  medical conditions.
Mr G said he wouldve  got some sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. And Mr 
and Mrs G have told us about  savings they had at that time. But Ive considered that 
they chose to protect those savings at that time by not taking a smaller mortgage.  
The PPI policy wouldve covered Mr and Mrs G for up to 12 months if Mr G couldnt 
work through  accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy payment he mightve got, and would have 
further protected any savings he had at that time. So, considering  all of this, and the 
fact that they were  increasing the borrowing that was secured on their home, and the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on their home, I 
think they couldve found the policy useful.  
The policy cost appears  to have been comparable  to other similar  policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable (I note it was afforded  for several years). 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs G.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs G, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
I know Mr and Mrs G feel strongly and have put time and effort into his complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed  by the outcome. But on balance, and for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs G have lost out because of anything Lloyds may have done wrong. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because 
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs G any extra interest  they paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN47431263Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each  month because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr and Mrs G 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept  
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4743126