K822xcomplaint
The estate  of Mrs L complains about Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust). 
The complaint is about the level of insurance benefit provided under a travel insurance policy 
and the level of assistance given  by Amtrust during  a repatriation. 
background 
Mrs L held a travel insurance policy which is provided by Amtrust.  
Mr and Mrs L were  on holiday  when Mrs L very sadly passed away. Mr and Mrs L had been 
due to fly home later the same day.
Mr L contacted Amtrust  for assistance. Mr L says Amtrust were insensitive and unhelpful and 
told him the repatriation  limit under  Mrs Ls policy was £1500.
Mr L queried this and said Mrs Ls policy summary  showed the maximum amount payable 
under the medical expenses section of cover was £10,000. Amtrust said the policy terms 
and conditions contained reference  to a £1500 limit in the event of death and said theyd 
need to speak to Mrs Ls GP before they could confirm if the claim was covered.
After speaking to his family, his tour operator and the British Consulate Mr L made the 
difficult decision to return home on his original flight,  leaving  his wife abroad. 
Mr L complained to Amtrust, who agreed the limit of £1500 for repatriation  costs wasnt 
highlighted in the policy summary and said it would be re-assessing this limit. Amtrust 
refunded Mr L the amount hed paid for Mrs Ls repatriation. Amtrust also offered  Mr L £500 
compensation in recognition of the level of service hed received and for the distress hed 
experienced. 
Amtrust subsequently  increased their offer of compensation to £700.
Mr L then brought  his complaint to our service and, following a conversation with our 
investigator, Amtrust increased the offer again  to a total of £850.
Our investigator didnt  think she could  recommend  for Amtrust  to do anything more under 
our rules  because the complaint had been brought to us by the estate of Mrs L and not by 
Mr L personally. 
Mr L didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to offer Mr L and his family  my sincere  condolences for their loss. Im very sorry to 
hear about the tragic circumstances that led to this complaint. I have no doubt  that Amtrusts  
actions here caused  immense  distress  to Mr L and I think  its right that Amtrust have 
apologised for and acknowledged  this by offering compensation. 
Ref: DRN48969322But the Financial  Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts and we 
operate under different rules. Our powers are set out by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in their Dispute Resolution Rules. 
These rules  say we can only consider complaints which are brought  to us by an eligible 
complainant. 
Mrs L was the sole policyholder  with Amtrust  and she was the person for whose  benefit  the 
insurance was taken out. This means Mrs L  and now her estate - is the only eligible 
complainant in this case. 
I understand Mr L is the personal representative  of Mrs Ls estate. This means Mr L can 
bring a complaint to us in his capacity as a personal  representative. 
But Mr L wasnt a policyholder himself and the policy wasnt taken out for his benefit. So he 
isnt an eligible complainant in his personal  capacity as Mrs Ls husband of many years. 
We can only award compensation  to the eligible complainant and, in this case, thats not 
Mr L personally. So Mr Ls clearly  considerable personal distress  isnt something I can take 
into account. 
When awarding compensation  for a business actions we cant  punish a business for any 
wrongdoing and we instead need to think about the actual  impact on the customer 
themselves. The complaint here is brought on behalf  of Mrs L, who was Amtrusts customer. 
Amtrusts actions here quite clearly impacted on Mr L and the rest of his family. But we cant 
award compensation for trouble and upset  experienced  by Mrs Ls estate. 
As Ive mentioned  above I think its right that Amtrust have chosen to acknowledge their 
failings in this case given what Mr L has been  through. But the Financial Ombudsman 
Service cant act beyond  the powers  weve  been given by the regulator. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L but I cant recommend  that Amtrust should pay any 
compensation to Mrs Ls estate for the distress caused to Mr L.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4896932