K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about how Barclays Bank  UK PLC dealt with her chargeback request.
background
Miss B made a payment  to a limited  company  to recover a debt for her. Ill refer to the limited 
company as D. She was dissatisfied  with the service it provided which she thought D had 
misrepresented to her. She cancelled her contract  with it and asked for her money back. D 
was only prepared to give her a partial  refund without  accepting it was at fault it seems. 
Unhappy with this Miss B asked Barclays to get all her money back  via a process known as 
chargeback. She has told us Barclays promised she would get all her money  back.
Barclays did not carry out the chargeback.  It made a number of mistakes in the process.  It 
also sometimes gave Miss B inconsistent information about what  it was doing. Eventually it 
ran out of time to do the chargeback under the relevant rules. In any event it did not agree 
the chargeback  would have been  successful even  if it had done it properly. However, it tried 
to make up for not providing  the level of customer service Miss B was entitled to expect by 
offering her £230  and flowers.
Miss B remained dissatisfied.  She wanted  all the money shed paid out to D, this amounted 
to several thousand  pounds. Miss B came to us.
Our investigator said we could help her no further.  She could see that some  things had gone 
wrong, in so far as Barclays hadnt carried out the chargeback  properly. But she thought the 
chargeback would not have been  successful in any event. On that basis  she had no proper  
grounds for telling Barclays to give her a full refund. 
Further, our investigator took on board that Barclays  customer  service  had not always  been 
up to par. But she thought that the offer it had made went far enough. She didnt agree that 
Miss B had been  told by Barclays that it would  get all of her money  back. Even if it had said 
this that was not a proper reason for saying it should now refund the whole amount.
For all of these reasons our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Barclays accepted  our investigators  conclusions. Miss B didnt. She repeated  her earlier  
stance and also told us about the impact this complaint was having  on a close family 
member.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened  (as is the case,  in part, here), I have based 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what  I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Both Miss B and Barclays agree that Miss B wanted it to raise a chargeback. Chargeback  is 
a process which  allows  customers  to ask for a transaction  to be reversed if there is a 
problem with goods or services that they have paid for. There is no automatic right to a 
chargeback. But we consider it is good practice  for a financial business to consider carrying  
Ref: DRN47171722out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this. A chargeback is not a guaranteed  
method of getting  a refund. The process  is limited  to specific  criteria.  
  
Barclays did not carry out the chargeback  properly that is not disputed. However, I need to 
look at if the chargeback would have been  successful if carried out correctly.  Only in that 
circumstance would  it be fair and reasonable to say Barclays should pay Miss B the full 
amount. 
To succeed Miss B would  have needed a valid chargeback reason. This does not mean she 
had to have a reason that she subjectively thought was valid. Rather it had to be one of the 
chargeback reasons under the rules of the chargeback scheme.  Barclays  does not set these 
rules, the operator  of the chargeback scheme  does. These rules  are strictly applied. Looking  
at the information I have  I cant  see that she had a valid chargeback reason. I say this 
because, amongst other things, there was doubt  about what she had been promised by D. 
And she had cancelled the service,  albeit she said she had good reason to do this. I also 
think it  likely  that D would  have  raised a defence. It is likely that that defence would have 
been enough to defeat her chargeback claim.  In these circumstances, on balance,  I dont 
think the chargeback  would  have  been successful. It follows  it would be unfair  and 
unreasonable to ask Barclays to refund her all the money she was claiming under the 
chargeback.
That said,  Barclays should have  followed  the chargeback process correctly. It should also 
have given Miss B accurate information. But even if it had told her it was going to get all her 
money back that is not a reason for me to say it must now do this. In short, Miss Bs position 
seems to be that Barclays misrepresented what it would do for her. But the remedy  for 
misrepresentation is not to give the person who was misled,  the outcome they would have 
got if the representation was true. In other words, I cant fairly  and reasonably  make Barclays 
give her back  all her money just because she said it told her it would do that. I realise this 
may disappoint Miss B as she has underlined repeatedly that this is an important  point for 
her.
But what  I can look at is has Barclays offered enough to make up for the distress  and 
inconvenience it is likely it caused  her by carrying out the chargeback incorrectly  and by 
giving her the run-around about this. I recognise  the impact on her would not have been 
good, especially  since her relative was taking all of this hard, and that no doubt impacted on 
her. I cant make  an award  for the impact on her relative because  I dont have the power to 
do that. But I can make an award for how that relatives distress impacted on her. Plus I take 
account of how difficult it was for Miss B to get information from Barclays  about this relatively  
straightforward matter. For example, the information  I have seen  suggests  some of the calls 
took a long time and I have seen mention of one call taking two hours.
Barclays has offered £230 and flowers and in all of the circumstances, I think  that goes far 
enough in covering the phone charges she may have ran up  and the distress and 
inconvenience she may well have experienced. Ultimately though I think it was the dispute 
with D that was the main cause of her distress and inconvenience. I cant fairly hold Barclays  
responsible for the actions of this third party.
If, on reflection, Miss B now wants to accept Barclays offer she needs  to get in touch with it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN47171723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.  
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4717172