K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complained because Covea Insurance plc declined a claim she made  under her 
buildings insurance  policy for storm damage.
Mrs Rs son brought this complaint to our service. But for clarity  Ill refer to all submissions 
as being made by Mrs R directly. 
background
Mrs R holds buildings insurance with Covea, which she took out on 23 June 2018. She 
made a claim under  that policy for storm damage. She said water  had come  into the house 
and leaked down to her bedroom ceiling after a storm had damaged  her roof. Mrs R believed 
that this was all because of Storm Hector, which had occurred  in mid June 2018.
On 23 June 2018 a local builder that Mrs R had instructed inspected  the condition  of her 
roof. They found  several missing and loose  slates, which  they repaired at a cost of £124. 
Mrs R said the builder  thought the damage  was weather related.
On 3 August  2018 Mrs R contacted Covea  to report that her bedroom ceiling had collapsed.  
She said she was unsure  of the cause  of the collapse because  there  were  no visible water 
leaks. And she told Covea  that the winter and damp in the loft may have caused the ceiling 
to collapse. Covea informed her that her policy didnt cover  damage caused by damp. And it 
recommended she contact a roofer to confirm the cause of the damage.  Covea asked Mrs R 
to contact it again once she was aware of the reason her ceiling had collapsed  so it could 
assess whether she was covered under her policy.
On 8 August  2018 Mrs R telephoned Covea to explain that a builder had said the damage  to 
her ceiling had been caused  by her roof leaking and would cost £2800  to repair. The same 
day Covea appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to within this decision as B. B attended Mrs 
Rs property on 9 August  2018 to determine  the cause of the ceiling damage. 
Following Bs visit it reported  to Covea that it didnt  think  the ceiling damage  had been  
caused by a one off storm event; rather it was something that had gradually occurred over a 
period of time. B said the damaged area in Mrs Rs bedroom was dry at the time of 
inspection, which confirmed the damage was historic  and not due to a recent  storm. 
Covea said gradual  damage was excluded by Mrs Rs policy, so it declined her claim. But 
Mrs R disagreed with Bs opinion. And in efforts to get it to change  its mind about the cause 
of the damage  she sent Covea a copy of the invoice she had paid for the repair  of her roof 
together with photographs  of the repairs that had been undertaken. Covea shared these  
items with B who maintained its view that the damage had not been  caused by a one off 
storm event.
Mrs R wasnt happy that Covea wouldnt cover her claim so she referred  her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but they didnt uphold this 
complaint. They werent  persuaded  that the damage Mrs R had reported to Covea had been 
consistent with a one off identifiable storm event. And they thought it had been, most likely, 
caused by wear and tear. So, they didnt think Covea had done anything  wrong  in declining  
this claim.  Mrs R accepted our investigators  view and said she could understand the 
rationale behind  it. But she thought  Covea  had investigated her claim in a very 
Ref: DRN45402862unprofessional manner, which she wanted  to refer to an ombudsman. Because  of this, Ive 
been asked to determine this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mrs R thinks Covea 
acted unprofessionally in investigating and declining her claim. But Ill explain why I think its 
acted fairly  and reasonably.
Mrs R would like Covea to cover the damage to her ceiling because she feels  it was caused 
by storm damage.  Her policy with Covea covers  damage caused  by a storm. But for a claim 
to be accepted under this peril it must be shown that any damage was the direct  result of a 
single, weather event.  
This policy was taken out on 23 June 2018 and, under the terms and conditions  of that 
policy, for a claim to succeed  the date of the event must be on or after the policy  inception  
date. Here, the date of the event is the date of the storm.
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Turning to the first question, Ive carefully  considered the weather records  for Mrs Rs local 
area from 23 June (the date she incepted her policy with Covea)  until 3 August 2018  (the 
date she reported  ceiling  damage). From  these records I cant  see any evidence that there  
was a storm during  the six weeks before Mrs Rs ceiling collapsed. 
Mrs R attributes the damage  to her ceiling to Storm  Hector,  which occurred in mid June 
2018. Its clear that she thinks  the ingress of water over a period of time after that storm 
caused her ceiling to collapse. Based on weather  records  that Ive seen there were peak 
wind gusts of 56 mph and a dry storm recorded on 14 June 2018. This storm was named 
Storm Hector by the Met Office. So Im satisfied that there was a storm in mid June 2018, 
which predated  Mrs R taking out her policy with Covea. 
Ive carefully thought  about whether the damage caused to Mrs Rs ceiling is consistent with 
what we would normally consider to be storm damage and whether the storm was the main  
cause. 
The repairs  to Mrs Rs roof were undertaken on the date she took out her policy with Covea. 
Ive seen photographs taken after this date, which show that the roof didnt have any missing 
or broken tiles. So, Im satisfied Mrs R had her roof properly repaired on 23 June 2018. And, 
for that reason, I think its unlikely there was any ingress of water relating to a storm event 
after the date the repairs had been  carried out. 
I think its most likely  that any ingress of water would have occurred between  14 and 23 
June. Weather records during that period show that the total rainfall  within Mrs Rs locality  
was 41.4mm. Like our investigator, I dont think this amount of rainfall  was significant. And I 
Ref: DRN45402863havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that it is the likely cause of the ceiling collapse. 
Rooves are built to withstand  this type of weather.
B attended Mrs Rs property five days after she reported that her ceiling had collapsed. It 
said when it inspected the ceiling the damaged  area was dry. I think  this supports the view 
the damage was historic.  
Taking all of this into account,  Im not persuaded that the ceiling damage Mrs R reported to 
Covea was weather  related. I havent  seen evidence to show  that it was caused by Storm 
Hector. Instead, I think that what B said in its report offers a more plausible  explanation as to 
how the damage took place. It says damage  that occurred gradually  over a period of time 
was responsible for the collapse of the ceiling. And this type of damage isnt covered by Mrs 
Rs policy. Ill explain why.
Under the terms of Mrs Rs policy where  loss or damage is caused  by wear and tear, wet or 
dry rot or anything which happens  gradually or it is caused by or arising from: an incident  
that does not arise  from one identifiable  event or a lack of maintenance  Covea is entitled to 
decline a claim. 
Theres a difference  between  an insurance  contract covering specific perils and a 
maintenance contract where a consumer will have jobs covered annually by a builder. 
Insurers are keen for these contracts  not to be confused. There are wear and tear 
exemptions in their policies so consumers dont use them for maintenance purposes.
I think Covea has shown  our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the ceiling 
damage was caused gradually. And Im persuaded it acted  in line with the terms and 
conditions of her policy  in declining her claim. 
Mrs R doesnt think Covea acted  professionally  in investigating her claim. But, having looked  
carefully at the letters Covea  sent Mrs R and the records  of telephone conversations that 
took place, I havent seen  any evidence  that Covea behaved unprofessionally in its dealings 
with Mrs R. And I dont think it treated her unfairly.
In investigating  this claim Covea relied on a report from B and it also considered evidence 
submitted by Mrs R as I would expect  it to. We think its right for an insurer to instruct  
companies with expertise  to inspect a customers property to assist it in determining the 
cause of damage. Here Covea appointed B to do that. And I dont  think  it acted unfairly in 
accepting and relying on Bs opinion in the circumstances of this claim. I havent seen an 
expert report to contradict  what B has said and it follows that Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for Covea to conclude that the damage was historic  and that it had not been 
caused by a single extreme weather event. 
I understand Mrs R feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the 
reasons stated above, Im satisfied that Coveas decision  to decline the claim was fair. So 
Im not going  to be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN45402864Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4540286