K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited has held him liable for an accident 
under a motor  insurance policy that he says was fraudulently bought in his name  by his 
brother.
background
Mr A said that his brother,  who lives at the same address,  took out a policy with Calpe for a 
car owned by him. Mr A said that he didnt know anything about  this until Calpe  contacted 
him and held him liable  for an accident. Mr A told Calpe that his brother had fraudulently 
taken out the policy  in his name. But Calpe said that because his name was on the policy 
schedule and certificate, it held him liable. It said because misrepresentation had taken 
place, then it would cancel the policy from the start (void it) and Mr A would  be liable for any 
costs. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that Calpe 
hadnt investigated Mr As complaint that the policy had been fraudulently purchased  in his 
name without his knowledge. She thought further investigation was needed to establish 
whether the policy  was bought without  Mr As authorisation. She thought  all collection  activity 
and legal proceedings should be put on hold until this was done. And she thought Calpe 
should pay Mr A £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset caused by its not investigating 
his complaint. 
Calpe replied that the policy schedule  and certificate were clearly in Mr As name  but his 
brother owned  the car. It said the policy contact  details  provided were for Mr As brother, but 
it thought this wasnt unusual. It said the brother had provided Mr As driving licence and it 
thought Mr A would  have  known about  this. It said Mr A hadnt reported  the identity theft. It 
said Mr A hadnt co-operated  with the claim investigation. It said that as there had been  
misrepresentation of risk, it was entitled to void the policy and recover  its outlay. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated and unhappy with Calpes decision to hold him 
liable for the costs it incurred in settling the other  drivers claim. Hes adamant  that he didnt 
own the car or take out a policy with Calpe. Mr A complained to Calpe that it is holding him 
liable when  the policy was fraudulently bought in his name by his brother. 
Calpe has responded that this is a matter  for Mr A to sort out with his brother. But I think this 
is unfair and unreasonable. This is because  I cant see that Calpe has reasonably  
investigated and responded  to Mr As complaint.
I can see that Calpe responded  to a complaint sent from Mr As brothers email address 
about liability, addressing the response  to Mr A. The brothers email address and phone  
number are on the policy documents. Hed made the payments for the policy. Calpe said it 
wasnt unusual for family members to do this. But I can see from its records that Mr A 
protested several times  that hed not received  its emails and phone calls.  And I can see that 
Mr A had his own email address which Calpe later used. 
Ref: DRN49692442Calpe said that Mr A hadnt co-operated with the investigation of the claim. But I cant see 
that Calpe  contacted Mr A himself rather than his brother to seek  his version of events and 
his documents.  So I think its unfair for Calpe to use this as a reason not to investigate and 
respond to Mr As complaint. 
Calpe said that Mr As brother had provided Mr As driving licence. But I dont think  this 
necessarily means that Mr A was complicit in this. I cant see that Calpe has investigated  
this. Calpe said Mr A hadnt reported the identity  theft. But I dont think its sufficient for 
Calpe to dismiss the matter for this reason without asking Mr A about this further. And so I 
dont think Calpe has done enough to establish  whether or not the policy was taken out 
fraudulently using Mr As identity. 
Calpe told us that it hadnt investigated  the fraud allegation. And I dont think  it has 
responded to Mr As complaint.  I think Calpe needs to fully investigate the fraud  allegation 
and then respond to Mr As complaint. If Mr A is unhappy with the outcome, then he can 
bring his complaint to us. 
This matter has been unresolved for over a year. I think Calpe should reasonably 
compensate Mr A for the trouble and upset  caused  him by it not responding to his complaint.  
The adjudicator recommended £200 and I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id 
award in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
1.Investigate  the fraud allegation and investigate and respond fully to Mr As complaint. 
2.Put all collections activity and legal proceedings against Mr A on hold until the 
investigation has been completed. 
3.Pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it not 
responding to his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4969244