K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies to him and the late Mr W.
background 
Mr B and Mr W took out a joint mortgage  with Lloyds in February 1999 at the time they did 
not take out a PPI policy.
Over the following five years they took several further advances on the mortgage.
In February 2002  Mr B and Mr W took out a further  advance of £18,000. At the same time 
they were sold a regular  premium PPI policy. 
The cost of the PPI policy  was £9 per month. The benefit was split so that in the event of a 
successful claim  Mr B wouldve  received  70% of the monthly benefit amount and Mr W 
wouldve received  30%.  This would have been paid for up to 12 months  per claim for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
In November 2003 Mr B and Mr W borrowed a further £25,000.  At this time the PPI policy 
was amended so that it covered only Mr B against  not being  able to work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The premium for the policy was £12.50 per month.
In November 2004 Mr B and Mr W borrowed a further £40,000.  At the time they were  sold a 
new PPI policy. The cost of the policy was £50 per month. The benefit was split so that in 
the event of a successful claim Mr B wouldve received 50% of the monthly  benefit  amount 
and Mr W wouldve received 50%. This would have been paid for up to 12 months  per claim 
for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In November 2019 I issued my provisional  findings  on this complaint and invited  both parties 
to comment and send  me any additional evidence they wanted  me to think  about. A copy  of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold this complaint, my main reasons 
were:
Mr W was self-employed at the time the policies were sold.
I thought the policy  sold to Mr B and Mr W in February 2002 contained terms which  
would have made it hard for Mr W to make a successful  claim for unemployment.  So 
I didnt think the policy was right for them.
I didnt think Mr B and Mr W would  have bought  the policy in February 2002 if theyd 
been told the policy wasnt right for them.
If the policy had not been sold in February  2002 it follows that it would not have been 
possible to amend it in November 2003 to cover  just Mr B.
Ref: DRN45773012In November 2004 Lloyds sold Mr B and Mr W a new policy. Mr W was still            
self-employed, and the new policy contained terms which  I thought would have made 
it hard for him to make an unemployment claim.  This meant the policy  was not right 
for Mr B and Mr W. And if they had been  told the policy  was not right for them, I dont  
think they would have agreed  to buy it.
I also set out what I thought Lloyds needed  to do to put things right. And I said that the 
compensation should be split equally between Mr B and Mr Ws estate.
Lloyds has been  in touch to say it was willing to make an offer in line with this services 
guidelines. 
Mr B has contacted us to say he accepts my findings  on the mis-sale of the policies.            
Mr B also commented on how I was intending to direct Lloyds to make payment of the 
compensation.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has now agreed to make an offer in line with this services guidelines. 
Ive thought about Mr Bs comments around the compensation. But the policies were taken 
out to protect  a joint mortgage so I think its fair that the compensation should  be split equally 
between Mr B and Mr Ws estate.  It is for the legal representative of Mr Ws estate to contact 
Lloyds in order to make arrangements for that share to be paid.  
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
November 2019.
putting things right 
Lloyds should  put Mr B and the estate  of Mr W in the position theyd be in now if Mr B and 
Mr W hadnt taken out the PPI policies. The policies should be cancelled,  if they have  not 
been cancelled  already,  and Lloyds should:
Pay Mr B and the estate of Mr W the amount  they paid each month  for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year;  and
If Mr B or Mr W made successful claims under the PPI policies, Lloyds can take off what  
they got for the claims  from the amount it owes the complainants.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B and the estate  of Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if asked.
The policies were  taken  out to provide cover  for a mortgage and further advances in Mr B 
and Mr Ws joint names.  Therefore, I direct  Lloyds to pay 50% of the compensation to Mr B 
and 50% of the compensation  to Mr Ws estate.
Ref: DRN45773013my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to comply  with the above putting things 
right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and the 
representative of Mr Ws estate to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN45773014copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policies to him and Mr W.
background
Mr B and Mr W took out a joint mortgage with Lloyds in February 1999 at the time they did not take 
out a PPI policy.
Over the following  five years  they took several  further advances on the mortgage.
In February  2002 Mr B and Mr W took out a further advance of £18,000. At the same  time they were 
sold a regular premium PPI policy. 
The cost of the PPI policy was £9 per month. The benefit was split so that in the event of a successful 
claim Mr B wouldve received  70% of the monthly benefit amount and Mr W wouldve received 30%. 
This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim  for accident, sickness and unemployment.
In November 2003 Mr B and Mr W borrowed  a further £25,000. At this time the PPI policy was 
amended so that it covered only Mr B against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The premium for the policy was £12.50 per month.
In November 2004 Mr B and Mr W borrowed  a further £40,000. At the time they were  sold a new PPI 
policy. The cost of the policy was £50 per month.  The benefit was split so that in the event  of a 
successful claim  Mr B wouldve received 50% of the monthly benefit amount  and Mr W wouldve  
received 50%. This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Mr B disagreed  with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaints been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so I am currently intending to uphold  this complaint and Ill explain why.
The PPI sale in February 2002
Lloyds has told us it advised  Mr B and Mr W to buy the policy. In which case  it had a duty to ensure it 
was right for them.
Ive looked at a copy of the policy booklet dated November 2001.  I can see that on page six it states 
that, If youre Self-Employed you can still benefit from C&G Mortgage Payment Protection  if you can 
prove that you have been declared involuntarily  insolvent.
And on page  nine the booklet reads, If youre  self employed well need proof  of your involuntary 
insolvency and evidence of the fact youre  not trading.
The use of the term insolvency, suggests  to me that a self-employed person would  need to show 
that they were in severe financial difficulty and even  bankrupt before they could  make a claim  on this 
Ref: DRN45773015policy. Whereas an employed person would only have to show they had involuntarily  lost their job and 
were claiming Jobseekers  allowance in order  to claim.  
I think  this would have made a difference to Mr W who was self-employed at the time of the sale.
In my view,  having to prove that he had been  declared  involuntarily insolvent  was a particularly 
onerous term and would  have made it extremely hard for Mr W to make an unemployment claim on 
the policy.  
It follows that I dont think the policy  was right for him. And I dont think  the Lloyds representative  
should have advised Mr B and Mr W to buy the policy. If they had been made  aware the policy wasnt 
right for Mr W I dont think they would  have gone ahead and bought it.
So I think Mr B and Mr W lost out and Lloyds  needs to put things right.
The policy amendment  in November  2003    
Lloyds has told us the policy was amended  in November  2003 so that it no longer covered Mr W and 
instead covered Mr B only. 
However this was an amendment  to a policy that I think was mis-sold and should  not have been in 
force in the first place. And if it hadnt  been in force, it couldnt  have been amended.
Therefore I think Mr B and Mr W continued to lose out after the amendment  was made  and Lloyds 
needs to put that right.
Sale of a new policy in November 2004
In November 2004 Mr B and Mrs W were sold a new PPI policy. This provided joint cover for Mr B and 
Mr W. I note Mr W was still self-employed.
Lloyds told us it advised  Mr B and Mr W to buy this policy. So that means  it had to make sure the 
cover was suitable  for their needs. 
I dont think this policy  was suitable. Looking  at the terms and conditions of the policy, Mr W wouldnt 
be able to claim  if his business was voluntarily  liquidated. That suggests  to me that the only 
circumstances in which  Mr W could make a successful claim under the policy would  be if his business  
was involuntarily liquidated. And I think that would be a very high test for Mr W to satisfy.  
So I dont think the policy was right for Mr W. If Lloyds  had made this clear  to Mr B and Mr W I dont 
think they would have thought  the policy was good value  for them. And I dont think theyd  have taken  
it out. 
It follows that I think this complaint should be upheld. And Lloyds will need to put things right.  
putting things  right 
Provisionally, I think  Lloyds should put Mr B and the estate  of Mr W in the position  theyd be in now if 
Mr B and Mr W hadnt taken out the PPI policies. The policies should be cancelled, if they have not 
been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Pay Mr B and the estate of Mr W the amount  they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year; and
If Mr B or Mr W made successful claims  under the PPI policies,  Lloyds can take off what  they got 
for the claims  from the amount it owes the complainants.
Ref: DRN45773016 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr B and 
the estate of Mr W a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if asked.
The policies were taken  out to provide  cover for a mortgage and further advances  in Mr B and Mr Ws 
joint names. Therefore  I direct Lloyds  to pay 50% of the compensation to Mr B and 50% of the 
compensation to Mr Ws estate.
my provisional  decision
Ive provisionally upheld this complaint and am planning to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to comply  with the 
above putting  things  right  section. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 1 
December 2019
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4577301