K821x#15Complaint
Mr L complains  that Loans 2 Go Limited  (trading  as Loans 2 Go) unfairly charged him too 
much to settle a logbook  loan in March 2018.
Background
Mr L was provided with a logbook  loan for £900 in June 2017.  This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around  £124.  In March 2018,  after having made 9 of the 
36 payments, Mr L contacted Loans  2 Go to settle  his loan. Loans 2 Go told Mr L that he 
needed to pay £943.89 to settle his balance in full. Although unhappy  with the settlement 
figure quoted, Mr L repaid his loan and then complained to Loans  2 Go.
Loans 2 Go didnt uphold  Mr Ls complaint. It said that it calculated Mr Ls settlement figure 
using a formula based on the outstanding capital and the remaining loan term. And this was 
in line with how the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regs)  set 
out how a lender should calculate  a settlement figure  on a regulated  credit  agreement - 
where a consumer wanted to repay  a loan early. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ls complaint  and thought  that it should be upheld. She 
thought that Loans 2 Go failed to provide Mr L with clear enough information on how any 
early settlement payment would be calculated and that he lost out as a result. Loans 2 Go 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  it doesnt appear to be in dispute  that 
Loans 2 Go calculated Mr Ls settlement figure in line with the formula  set out in the regs.  
But the regs set out a formula for working  out the maximum a lender can charge in the event 
that a consumer wishes to settle  a regulated agreement early. It isnt an absolute  standard.  
And what Im required to do here is decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances 
of Mr Ls case not just whether Loans  2 Go has acted in accordance  with the regs.  
In deciding whether  Loans 2 Go acted  fairly  and reasonably  towards Mr L, Im mindful that 
CONC 4.2.5R requires  a lender to provide an adequate explanation  of an agreement  in 
order to place the consumer in a position  to assess whether  the agreement  is right for their 
needs and financial  situation. The matters to take into account include the features of the 
agreement which may make it unsuitable for a particular type of use and the features of the 
agreement which would  have a significant  adverse effect on the customer in a way which 
theyre unlikely to foresee. 
CONC 4.2.7G also lists factors a lender should  take into account when deciding the level 
and extent of an explanation. These factors, amongst other things, include the type of credit,  
the amount and duration and the actual and potential costs. In this case, there  isnt any 
dispute Loan 2 Go provided Mr L with a very expensive loan. It says that the interest  was 
frontloaded  rather than added on a daily basis  to ensure transparency and help Mr L 
understand how much he had left to repay at a given time. 
Ref: DRN45876332Its important to note that all loans  irrespective  of whether interest  is added  upfront or on a 
daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each instalment is made up of 
some of the interest  and charges and some of the capital advanced. And on more  expensive 
loans  such as Mr Ls - the higher  interest  rate usually means that even though a monthly 
payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the amount borrowed - a smaller 
proportion of this payment  goes to repaying  the capital in the early  stages. 
So many consumers in Mr Ls position  may believe that theyve paid off more of their loan 
than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments made, because theyre 
unaware that their monthly payments were amortised and a large  proportion  of the early 
payments were going towards the interest. And on top of this Mr L faced around  58 days  
interest (because of the initial term of the loan)  at an APR of in excess  of 350% being  added 
to an unexpectedly larger outstanding capital balance.
Given all of this, I think  that the information  on how an early  settlement  figure  would be 
calculated was information and it should have been  brought to Mr Ls attention in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way. So I think that the key question  I need to consider in order to fairly  
and reasonably decide Mr Ls complaint is, did Loans 2 Go adequately  explain to Mr L, in a 
clear fair and not misleading way how itd calculate what  hed need  to pay should  he want  to 
settle his loan early? 
Did Loans 2 Go adequately explain to Mr L, in a clear fair and not misleading way how itd 
calculate what hed need to pay if he wanted  to settle his loan early?
Loans 2 Go says that Mr L was made aware of the terms and conditions in relation to early 
repayment in the pre-contract information  provided as well as his fixed sum loan agreement.  
It relies on this information as evidence of it having met its obligations to adequately explain 
in a clear fair and not misleading way the terms and conditions  in relation to early  settlement.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Loans  2 Go has said. 
I want to start by saying  that whether the information Loans 2 Go has referred  to ought 
reasonably to have  led Mr L to understand he may still have had to pay a substantial  amount 
of interest even if repaying his loan early, depends  not only on the content of the information,  
but when it was provided and its prominence within the overall documentation given to him.
Loans 2 Go has relied on extracts  from two separate documents  but it hasnt provided all of 
the information presented at the time.  So I dont know how prominent  the sections Loans  2 
Go has referred to were  within the gamut of information it provided to Mr L. And I dont know  
whether it actually provided Mr L with enough  time to have actually read all of the information 
before he signed  his agreement either.  This is especially the case  bearing in mind  the speed 
at which  this whole process is likely to have taken  place.
In any event, leaving aside my concerns about whether the information referred to was 
prominent enough, I dont think that it sets out the position as clearly as Loans  2 Go believes 
either. It does tell Mr L that if he wishes to settle the loan early  he will have to pay some 
amount not yet due under  the agreement within 28 days of his intention to make  early 
payment. But it doesnt say how much  of whats not yet due hell have to pay and it instead 
simply refers to the regs. I say this while mindful of the fact that Loans 2 Go will have had an 
idea how much of the unpaid  not yet due interest it intended to add to the capital amount 
outstanding as it knew the term of the loan. 
Ref: DRN45876333So while Ive carefully thought about what Loans 2 Go has said, I dont  think that Loans 2 Go 
did adequately  explain to Mr L, in a clear  fair and not misleading way just how much  of the 
interest not yet due hed have to pay if he decided he wished to pay his loan early. 
Would an adequate  clear, fair and not misleading  explanation of the early settlement terms 
made a difference to Mr Ls decision to take out this loan in the first place?
Even though  I think Loans 2 Go didnt  adequately  explain the early settlement terms to  Mr L, 
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way, it doesnt automatically follow Mr Ls complaint should 
be upheld. Thats because I still need to consider whether Mr L lost out as a result  of Loans 
2 Gos failure to provide adequate information  to him. In other words, I need  to consider 
whether Mr L would have  acted  differently  if Loans 2 Go had met its obligations to him.
Ive carefully considered  what I think would more likely than not have happened  if Loans  2 
Go had met its obligations to Mr L. 
In deciding this matter Ive referred  to Mr Ls overall  borrowing and repayment history with 
Loans 2 Go. As I understand it, this was Mr Ls fifth loan with Loans  2 Go and all four of the 
previous ones had been  settled early. So I dont think  its unreasonable  to say that early  
settlement was in Mr Ls contemplation when  applying for this loan and the amount hed 
have to pay, to settle the loan early, was more likely than not an important factor to him. 
Ive seen what Loans 2 Go has said about Mr L knowing the terms due to repaying previous 
loans early. But the amount Mr L repaid for loans  two, three and four wasnt  that much  more 
than the amount advanced. And loan one was settled far later into the term so it wasnt  
unreasonable for him to have paid more as a result. Whats particularly startling about the 
circumstances of this loan was that to settle  it Mr L was required to pay more than the 
amount he was initially lent. And this was despite already having made nine monthly 
payments, the total of which also exceeded  the amount he was lent. 
In these circumstances, I think its more likely than not that Mr L would not have proceeded 
with this loan had the basis of the early  settlement  payment  calculation  been adequately, 
clearly and fairly explained to him in a non-misleading  way. In my view, Mr Ls propensity  to 
settle his loans early  meant this was important  information that should have been brought to 
his attention by Loans  2 Go. And as Mr L has ended up paying extra interest  I think  that he 
wouldnt have had the early settlement terms been properly explained to him, it follows  that I 
think that he lost out because  of what Loans  2 Go did wrong.  So I think  that it needs to put 
things right.  
Fair compensation  what  Loans  2 Go needs  to do to put things right  for Mr L
I think that Loans 2 Go should as far as practicable  place  Mr L in the position that hed now 
be in had it met its obligations.  While  I accept that the capital outstanding might  have  been  
higher than Mr L was expecting, bearing in mind the payments hed made,  Im satisfied that 
this was due to the amortisation of the loan. And as most loans are amortised in this way, I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect  Mr L to pay the capital amount that was outstanding at 
the time he requested his settlement figure.
This leaves  the question  of what amount, if any, was fair and reasonable for Loans  2 Go to 
add to the capital amount Mr L owed when  he requested a settlement figure. As Ive 
explained, the regs do permit  a lender to add an amount of the interest, not yet due on a 
loan, to the capital balance outstanding at the time a borrower requests to settle a loan early.  
Ref: DRN45876334But as Ive also explained this is the maximum amount a lender is entitled to charge. And it 
wont always be the case that its fair and reasonable for a lender to add this much when a 
borrower repays a loan early.
In truth,  the regs are in place to indemnify a lender for the administrative costs  of a loan 
being settled early. This will cover the actual administration process of a loan being settled 
early as well as other matters such as protecting a lender from any fluctuations  in the 
interest rates in the wholesale markets  for the period it expected the loan to be repaid. 
In this case, Im satisfied  that neither the actual administrative cost of closing down Mr Ls 
loan or any variation in wholesale interest rates accounts for 58 days  interest at an APR of 
363.8%. I say this while especially mindful  of the fact that Loans 2 Go had already received 
in excess of £1,100.00 from Mr L in the period it had been  without the use of the capital it 
had lent. 
Our adjudicator thought it reasonable for Loans 2 Go to have charged £50 in addition  to the 
remaining capital balance.  Bearing  in mind, I think that Loans 2 Go should be allowed to 
charge an amount proportionate to the administrative costs incurred to closedown Mr Ls 
loan account early, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount given the 
circumstances of this case.     
All of this means  that in order  to put matters  right in a fair and reasonable way for Mr L, 
Loans 2 go should refund the difference between what Mr L actually  paid to settle  his loan in 
March 2018; and the capital outstanding  when  he requested his settlement figure  plus £50. 
Loans 2 Go should then add interest  at 8% simple per annum to the amount being  refunded  
from the date that Mr L paid it to the date of settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.   
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should pay 
Mr L compensation in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4587633