K822xcomplaint
Mrs A says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  (QQ), irresponsibly lent to her.
background 
This complaint is about six payday loans  QQ provided to Mrs A between
January 2009  and November 2009.  Each of the loans was repayable by two monthly
instalments. Loan  6 hasnt been repaid. Mrs As lending history  is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount
Highest monthly 
instalment amount
1. 6/1/09 26/2/09 £150 £187.50
2. 3/3/09 27/4/09 £150 £187.50
3. 29/4/09 26/6/09 £250 £312.50
4. 1/7/09 26/8/09 £250 £312.50
5. 1/9/09 26/11/09 £550 £687.50
6. 26/11/09 24/09/10 £550 £687.50
QQ initially raised an objection to this service  about  the loans saying that the complaint
about those loans had been made  too late. An adjudicator considered  this and said that this
service was able to consider the complaint. QQ accepted  the adjudicators view.
our adjudicators view of the complaint
Another adjudicator  then considered Mrs As complaint and recommended  that Loans  3
onwards should  be upheld.  The adjudicator thought that by Loan 3, Mrs A was struggling to
repay the loans  as shed missed some repayment  dates. And he said that by Loan 4,
Mrs As overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently reliant on short  
term loans. QQ disagreed but offered  to repay  interest and charges on Loans 5 and 6, pay 
8% interest on the refunds and remove  negative  information from Mrs As credit  file about
Loans 5 and 6. 
Mrs A hasnt responded to QQs offer. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs A 
and to QQ on 31 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
As QQ had offered to compensate Mrs A for Loans  5 and 6, I said that I didnt propose to 
consider these loans.  But I said I would refer to them in any award I made.
I explained that when QQ lent to Mrs A the regulator was the Office  of Fair Trading. QQ 
needed to lend responsibly.  There was no set list of checks it needed to do.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs A. These factors  included:
Ref: DRN40040642-the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
       any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
       meet a higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
-the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
       during which a customer  has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated
       refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
       unsustainable).
I said that there might even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrates  that the lending  was unsustainable.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all meant for Mrs As complaint.
I noted that QQ did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs A. It asked her for details of her 
income. Her declared  income was £1,789  over the lending period. QQ also checked Mrs As 
employment and housing status.  From  the information QQ gathered, Mrs A was employed 
and paid rent.
QQ also checked Mrs As credit file before agreeing to the loans. QQ hadnt provided us with
the results of its credit checks. And I couldnt  see that wed received a copy of Mrs As credit
report, so I couldnt  say there were entries  on the file that shouldve concerned QQ.
The repayments on Mrs As first two loans  were relatively modest compared to the income
that shed declared  to QQ. Mrs A appeared to have  faced some relatively minor problems
repaying her first two loans. Her first repayment on Loan 1 was two days  late but the second
repayment was repaid  on the due date.  Mrs As second repayment on Loan 2 was three
days late. She was charged a late fee for each  of those late repayments. QQ said that the
late fees were repaid  either on the same day or two days after they were assessed which it
said showed a sound repayment  history. At that stage I didnt think QQ should  have been
unduly worried about Mrs As late payments.
At the time of the first two loans, taking account  of the amount  Mrs A was borrowing, what
was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and her history with the lender, I didnt
think it wouldve been proportionate for QQ to have asked her for the amount of information 
that would  have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.
The repayment amounts for Loan  3 had increased, but the repayments  were still relatively
modest compared to the income that Mrs A had declared to QQ. And although one payment
on each of the previous loans had been  two or three  days late, I didnt think  that should
necessarily have given  QQ significant concerns about Mrs As financial situation.
Again taking account of the amount Mrs A was borrowing,  what  was apparent  about her
circumstances at the time, and her history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been
proportionate for QQ to have asked her for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.
The first repayment on Loan 3 was paid one day late, but the second loan repayment was
repaid on the due date. Again I didnt think that the slightly delayed first payment on Loan  3
should have unduly concerned QQ when Mrs A applied for Loan  4. The amount  shed  asked
to borrow was the same as her previous loan and so the repayments were  again relatively
Ref: DRN40040643modest compared to the income that Mrs A had declared to QQ. So given Mrs As
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about her circumstances  at the time,  and her
history with the lender, I again didnt  think it wouldve been  proportionate  for QQ to have 
asked her for the amount  of information that would have been  needed  to show this lending 
was unsustainable.
And I didnt  think there was anything in the information Mrs A provided or the information QQ
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what
she was saying. So I didnt think QQ was wrong to give Loans 1 to 4 to Mrs A.
putting things right  what QQ needs  to do
QQ has already offered  to compensate Mrs A for Loans 5 and 6. I said that I intended  to 
include its offer in my proposed award. For each of those loans QQ should:
-Refund any interest and charges paid by Mrs A on the loans.
-Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date
       they  were paid to the date of settlement*.
-The number of loans  taken from Loan 5 onwards  meant any information recorded about
them is adverse.  So all entries about  Loans  5 and 6 should be removed from Mrs As   
       credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mrs A
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If Mrs A still owes QQ any of the principal balance  she borrowed on her final loan, QQ might
deduct this from the compensation  that is due to her. But, to be clear,  that outstanding
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking  account  of
any repayments Miss K has made on that loan as though they were applied  against the
principal sum borrowed.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs A or QQ my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  trading 
as QuickQuid, to:
1. Refund any interest  and charges  paid by Mrs A on Loans  5 and 6;
2. Add simple interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the
    date  they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
3. The number of loans taken from Loan 5 onwards meant any information recorded
     about them is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 5 and 6 should be removed from
     Mrs  As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mrs A
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If Mrs A still owes QQ any of the principal balance  she borrowed on her final loan, QQ might
deduct this from the compensation  that is due to her. But, to be clear,  that outstanding
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking  account  of
any repayments Mrs A has made  on that loan as though they were applied against  the
principal sum borrowed.
Ref: DRN40040644QQ responded to my provisional  decision to say that it agreed with my provisional  decision 
and it had nothing  further to add.
Mrs A responded to my provisional decision to say that QQ had sold Loan 6 to a debt 
collection agency which caused her further debt even though she was in financial hardship. 
She believes she had taken many more  loans but her banking history wouldnt go back  to 
this period in time. Mrs A also said that QQ hadnt asked her for details of her other  debts. 
She said that she had numerous other  payday  loans at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I can see that Mrs A is unhappy  that QQ sold Loan 6 to a debt collection agency (DCA). I 
have reviewed the correspondence file sent to us by QQ. It doesnt appear that the Loan 6 
balance was sold to a DCA. It appears  that the account was forwarded to a DCA for 
collection purposes. I also note that the DCA informed QQ that the account balance  had 
been paid on 24 September  2010 and have  amended the loans table and my award to 
reflect this. Mrs A will also receive  a refund of any interest and charges paid on Loan 6 in my 
award.
I note that Mrs A believes that she had many more loans with QQ. Mrs A hasnt told us when 
such loans might have  been taken out. But if the loans were taken out before Loans 1 to 6, 
its possible that it might now be too late to complain about them  as its likely to be more than 
six years  since  such loans  were  taken out and more than three years since Mrs A was aware 
that she had cause to complain. I note that she complained about Loans  1 to 6 in 
November 2015.
I also note that Mrs A said that QQ hadnt  asked her for details of her other debts and that 
she had numerous  other payday loans at the time.  QQ did tell us that it carried  out credit 
checks although we havent seen details  of these. Its likely that QQs credit checks  would 
have referred to at least some of Mrs As other credit commitments. But I havent  seen QQs 
credit checks so cannot comment on what it might have seen. And Mrs A hasnt  provided  us 
with her credit file at the time of the loans  or evidence of other  debts. So I dont know what  
her financial  position  was like at the relevant times. 
Overall Mrs A hasnt said anything in response  to my provisional decision which persuades  
me that the outcome I reached was unreasonable or incorrect.  So my final decision is the 
same as I outlined in my provisional decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1. Refund any interest  and charges  paid by Mrs A on Loans  5 and 6;
2. Add simple interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the
    date  they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
3. The number of loans taken from Loan 5 onwards means any information recorded
Ref: DRN40040645     about them is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 5 and 6 should be removed from
     Mrs  As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mrs A
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4004064