K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Experian  Limited  are wrongly  reporting a debt and a default on her 
credit file.
background
Miss H was disputing an account  and a default that had been placed on her credit file in 
2009 by a company Ill call V. So a few years  later when L, a debt collection company, 
bought the loan and reported another default on the account in 2014, Miss H complained to 
Experian. She said the default shouldnt be recorded  and the account  should be deleted  as it 
was in dispute. She said the inadequate  reporting  had caused  her significant issues  as she 
hadnt been able to get approved for credit.
Experian checked with L who told them that the information theyd provided was correct. 
So Experian  explained  to Miss H that they couldnt  help. It was L who reported the detail and 
they couldnt change information  on her credit report without the permission of the company 
who sent it to them.
So Miss H referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. 
She explained that she could see Experian  had asked L about the information theyd 
reported to her account on two occasions  but L had explained the information was correct. 
And, as Experian couldnt change information  without the permission of the company who 
sent it, it wouldnt be fair to suggest they take any further action. She understood that Miss H 
disputed whether the debt was legitimate as shed claimed it was statute barred but that 
wasnt a decision this service could take  it was for the courts  to decide if a debt was 
enforceable. She said this service could decide whether a business had been fair and she 
thought Experian had been when reporting the information L had provided.
But Miss H disagreed and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Experian cannot change the information that is provided by businesses  without the business 
consent. 
I can see that Experian asked L about  the reporting  theyd made to Miss Hs account,  on a 
couple of occasions and L confirmed the information was correct.
Ref: DRN48607112So I dont  think Experian have done  anything wrong  here.
I understand that Miss H disputes the records that have  been reported and that she is 
disputing them, correctly,  with L and V. When, and if, the disputed  account is removed or the 
defaults discredited; Experian will need to change Miss Hs credit  file to match any updated  
information that L and V report to them. But at the moment I think its fair to say they havent 
done anything  wrong and need take no further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4860711