K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has done to put things right 
following his complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
From 1997  to 2002, Mr D had a PPI policy alongside  his credit card. Mr D thought the policy 
was mis-sold, but in 2017 RBS wrote  to Mr D to say it didnt agree. 
In 2018 RBS looked at Mr Ds complaint again.  It didnt think the policy  was mis-sold. But it 
didnt tell Mr D about the commission and profit share it got from selling the policy   and it 
thought that was unfair.
To put this right, it basically offered  to refund any commission and profit share,  together  with 
the interest charged  on this, that was more than 50% of the cost of the policy.  It worked  out 
this would be £671.25. 
But in 2004 Mr D had granted a trust deed under Scottish insolvency law. This is an informal 
alternative to sequestration. RBS said Mr D hadnt  repaid  everything  he owed it when he 
entered the trust deed  and so it proposed  to deduct the compensation from the amount Mr 
D hadnt repaid.
Mr D doesnt agree  and thinks  the compensation should be paid to him directly.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 12 November 2019. A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision. My provisional decision 
sets out the background  to the complaint and explains why I thought that what RBS 
proposed to do was fair.
RBS has confirmed it has nothing further  to add. Mr D did not send  anything  further for me to 
consider. Ive looked at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr D nor RBS has sent me anything further  to consider. I reach the same  
conclusions as my provisional decision for the same  reasons.
I note that the Court  of Session has recently  confirmed the position in Donnelly. Ive 
considered this, but I dont think it changes what is fair.
The redress  RBS has offered is a lot less than the amount that was left when Mr D was 
discharged from his trust deed. And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision,  
as the cost of the PPI was charged  to a credit card, I think  its likely that the amounts RBS 
have offered were  included in the amount that was unpaid when the trust deed ended. I 
dont think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay this amount  to Mr D directly.
Ref: DRN40099272my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, I think  that its fair for RBS to deduct 
the compensation from the amount that was unpaid when the trust deed ended. So I make  
no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40099273copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has done to put things right following his 
complaint about the commission it got from selling  payment protection insurance.
background
From 1997 to 2002, Mr D had a PPI policy  alongside his credit card. Mr D thought the policy  was mis-
sold, but in 2017 RBS wrote  to Mr D to say it didnt agree.  
In 2018 RBS looked at Mr Ds complaint  again. It didnt  think  the policy  was mis-sold. But it didnt tell 
Mr D about  the commission and profit share it got from selling the policy  and it thought that was 
unfair.
To put this right, it basically offered to refund any commission and profit  share, together with the 
interest charged on this, that was more than 50% of the cost of the policy. It worked out this would be 
£671.25. 
But in 2004 Mr D had granted a trust deed under Scottish insolvency  law. This is an informal 
alternative to sequestration. RBS said Mr D hadnt repaid everything he owed it when he entered  the 
trust deed  and so it proposed to deduct  the compensation from the amount  Mr D hadnt repaid.
Mr D doesnt agree  and thinks the compensation should  be paid to him directly.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought that what Mr D planned to do was fair. Mr D 
didnt agree.  The complaint has now been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The rules I follow require me to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
RBS has agreed that the complaint about the commission  it got should  be upheld.  So, I need to 
decide if its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce the amount that was left and remained 
unpaid when  the trust deed  ended.
In this case, the relevant law is Scots law. Im aware that in some cases the Scottish courts  have said 
that PPI compensation  may be paid to directly  to the consumer,  even though  they didnt repay  
everything they owed when they entered the trust deed.
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court held that a consumer,  not the trustee  of 
the trust deed, was entitled  to his PPI compensation because his standard form trust deed was 
terminated on the final  distribution of the estate, which had taken place before  either the consumer 
or the trustee knew of the potential PPI claim.
And in Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017] SAC (Civ) 1 the Sheriff Appeal Court said that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end. RBS has appealed  this decision to the Inner House 
of the Court of Session, so the outcome may change.
Ref: DRN40099274To be clear,  though I will take into account the law I am not bound  to follow  it. And the rules also say 
that if I do decide to award compensation this may be such  amount as I consider  to be fair 
compensation, whether  or not a court would  award  compensation.
Having carefully considered the points raised  by Mr D and RBS, I think its fair for RBS to deduct  the 
compensation from the amount Mr D didnt have to repay when the trust deed ended. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen, when Mr Ds credit card closed, it had an outstanding  balance  of £4,968.31. 
This is a lot more  than RBS has worked out it needs to pay Mr D because of the commission it got. 
And thanks  to the trust deed RBS cant make  Mr D repay this money.
I dont think it would  be fair to make RBS pay Mr D this compensation  directly when he didnt have  to 
repay a far larger sum thanks to the trust deed.
Im also mindful  that the cost of the PPI was charged to Mr Ds credit card. So I think the commission 
and interest  RBS has worked out is likely to be part of the amount Mr D didnt  have to repay at the 
end of his trust deed. As such, I dont think it would be fair to make RBS pay Mr D this amount 
directly.
And finally, the only reason  Mr D would get this money now is because he didnt complain  about  the 
sale of PPI until after the end of his trust deed. Had the trust remained  active, RBS would clearly  have 
been able to deduct the compensation from what Mr D owed  or it could have been paid to the 
trustee for the benefit of Mr Ds other  creditors.  He would not have received this money  directly.
In all the circumstances, I think that what RBS proposes to do is fair.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think its fair for Royal Bank of Scotland  PLC to use the 
compensation it has worked out to reduce  the amount Mr D didnt repay following  the trust deed.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4009927