K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Advanced Payment  Solutions Limited (APSL) didnt close  his account 
when he asked it to and hes unhappy with the service hes received from APSL.
background
Mr R says he opened a current account  with APSL (account ending ****0432) and at the 
same time took out an additional  facility   Creditbuilder. He says he experienced problems 
sending payments to this account, so in June 2017  he emailed APSL  and asked it to close 
the account. Mr R told us:
he sent a number of emails to APSL  in June 2017 because his payments werent  
crediting his account. But he was told his account  couldnt  accept  payments  in the 
format he was sending  them.
he sent a further email  on 23 June 2017 asking APSL  to close  his account and when 
he heard  nothing further, he assumed  his account had been successfully closed.
some  time later after he switched banks,  he opened a new current  account  with 
APSL (account  ending  ****2038)  - he was now able to send payments in the format  
that it could accept. And at the same  time he took out another  Creditbuilder  facility.
he was resolving some problems with his new account and he discovered that he 
had an outstanding debt of £41.65 on his first account, the one he thought had been 
closed two years earlier. He says he was unaware of this debt and hadnt  been 
notified that APSL had defaulted  it in January  2018.
hes had to make a number of telephone  calls to APSL to resolve the issues and the 
service hes received has been  below the standard he shouldve  been able to expect.
APSL rejected this complaint.  It said it couldnt close Mr Rs account (****0432) in June 2017 
because he had another facility  Creditbuilder  attached  to it. It says it defaulted his 
account in January 2018 because the outstanding  debt on the Creditbuilder  facility had 
reached £41.65.  It says if Mr R repays  the outstanding debt he can ask it again to close the 
account.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he thought  it should  be upheld.  He 
explained that the account terms and conditions werent clear  they suggested a customer 
could close their account by email,  even though no contact  details were provided. And 
although he accepted that Mr Rs account  couldnt be closed whilst the linked Creditbuilder 
facility had an outstanding balance, he didnt think  it was fair that APSL  had defaulted the 
account without  notifying Mr R of the outstanding  debt or the fact that it intended to default  
his account.
Our adjudicator highlighted  the poor service Mr R had received from APSL and asked it to 
pay him £100 in recognition of this. And he asked it to allow Mr R to repay  the outstanding 
debt on his first account and then remove the default associated  with it before closing the 
account.
APSL disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says it wasnt  its fault that Mr Rs 
payments couldnt  be credited to his first account  and it didnt default his account for a full six 
months which shouldve  given Mr R time to pay the outstanding debt. It says the default was 
applied correctly and fairly and it doesnt think it should be removed.
Ref: DRN47817052APSL says there were other  ways  in which Mr R couldve contacted  it about  closing his 
account and these are detailed  on its website.  But it did acknowledge the service it had 
given Mr R was not ideal. And it suggested  it would  agree  to meeting in the middle of the 
goodwill gesture and would be willing to pay £50.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell APSL that 
I think the adjudicator  reached the right outcome here. And I think he set out the position  
very clearly so theres  very little I can usefully add to whats  already been  said.
The crux of this complaint is whether APSL  acted  fairly and reasonably when it failed to 
follow Mr Rs instruction  to close his account and then went  on to default it because  of the 
outstanding balance.
Ive seen the email  trail between Mr R and an APSL when  it first came  to light that Mr Rs 
payments couldnt  be credited to his account. And its in this email  trail that Mr R asks APSL  
to close his account. I accept that APSL  may have provided contact information on its 
website, but I agree  with our adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable  of Mr R to expect APSL 
to act on his email instruction, given that this instruction was a result of information hed 
learned in that same  chain of emails. And Im also satisfied that in the event that APSL  
needed Mr R to do something differently, it shouldve acknowledged his email and given him 
alternative instructions.
APSL says that theres an outstanding balance on the account that Mr R opened first 
(****0432). But I dont  think  this is in dispute.  Ive not seen any evidence or testimony from 
Mr R disputing that theres a balance on his account  that needs repaying.  What is in dispute  
is whether Mr R knew the extent of the outstanding balance  at the time and whether APSL  
correctly notified  Mr R that it intended to default  his account in January 2018.
APSL says it sent Mr R notification about his debt and then sent him a default  notice before 
it defaulted his account. Mr R says he never received any notification  or notice from APSL. 
This Service asked APSL for evidence that it had correctly served Mr R with a default notice 
 we asked for this evidence on several occasions in July 2019 and August 2019. But 
although APSL said in July 2019 it would send in proof that the default  notice  and other 
correspondence were  issued when it says they were, to date its provided nothing. In view of 
this, Im not persuaded I can safely conclude that APSL notified Mr R of the outstanding 
balance on his first account  or that it served him with a default notice as it shouldve  done. 
So, Im going  to ask it to remove the default from this account as soon as Mr R has repaid 
the outstanding balance.
Finally, Ive noted that APSL wants to meet in the middle and is willing to pay Mr R £50 in 
compensation but I dont think this recognises  the inconvenience and very poor service that 
Mr R has experienced. So, Im going  to ask it to pay him £100 to settle this complaint.
Ref: DRN47817053my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct:
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  to pay Mr R £100 to settle  this complaint.
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  to provide Mr R with a written  breakdown  of the 
outstanding debt on his account (****0432) so he can fully settle his outstanding  debt.
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  to close the account (****0432)  and remove the 
default once Mr R has repaid  the outstanding  debt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4781705