K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK plc wont refund a debit  card transaction that he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr J told Santander that he didnt recognise  a payment made  using his card for £143.79. He 
said that it wasnt an amount that he would usually spend at that retailer. Santander 
investigated but has declined to refund the money.  It says that it thinks Mr J authorised  the 
payment.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He thought  it was most likely 
that Mr J had authorised  the payment.
Mr J disagreed and said that he couldnt afford  to lose that kind of money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
our investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
The disputed transaction was made in February  2018. The regulations relevant to these are 
the Payment Service  Regulations 2017. In short, the regulations  say that Santander  can hold 
Mr J liable for the disputed item if the evidence  suggests that he most likely made or 
authorised them himself. So my primary concern is to come  to a view about  whether or I not 
I think Mr J authorised this payment. But for me to be satisfied that these  payments were  
authorised, I first need to determine  whether they were authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im satisfied from 
the evidence Santander has provided  that whoever made the transaction had both the 
genuine card and PIN. I say this because Santander has shown  that the transaction  was 
made and authenticated where the genuine  unique chip in the card was read and the correct  
PIN was entered.
So Ive then thought about  whether  Santander  has enough evidence to suggest Mr J carried 
out the transaction.
Mr J says that he wasnt in the habit of spending large amounts at this particular retailer. I 
have looked at his spending  over the course  of more  than a year and I agree with him. But 
as this retailer had a post office, a possible explanation might be that Mr J used his card to 
pay at the post office counter for something  such as a road fund licence or similar.
The banks technical evidence shows that Mr Js genuine card and PIN was used  to make 
the payment.  The regulations relevant to this case say that it is not, on its own,  enough for 
Santander to hold him liable. So I also need  to consider whether the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that he consented to the disputed transaction being made.
Ref: DRN45478042From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander  to conclude that Mr J 
authorised the transaction. I say this because: 
Mr J said he cant remember  whether  he authorised the disputed transaction or not. But 
he knows that he has never spent that amount in that store. 
Mr J has said that he authorised the transaction that took place just over half an hour 
later at another store located about a 10 minute drive away. For the disputed  transaction  
to have been carried out by a third party without Mr Js authorisation, the fraudster  would 
have needed to take  and replace  Mr Js card without him noticing.
I dont think its plausible that a fraudster could  have  successfully  taken Mr Js card and 
replaced it without him noticing.  Mr J has said he lives on his own and doesnt have 
frequent visitors. He said that his card is kept in his wallet. No one was staying  with him 
at the time so no one could have had access to it. 
Theres no convincing explanation for how the third party could have got hold of Mr Js 
card or known his PIN. He said he hasnt shared  it with anyone.  
I know Mr J will be disappointed  and hed like to know  with certainty what he may have spent 
such a large amount on. 
Taking everything into account,  I find on balance that Mr J carried  out the disputed  
transaction. It follows that Santander is entitled  to hold him liable for it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4547804