K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the quality  of a car he has been financing  through an agreement with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited, trading as Renault Finance (RCI). He says it hasnt been 
satisfactory and hes been disappointed  with the compensation RCI have offered. 
background
Mr M took receipt of a nearly  new car in February 2016. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. The car was first registered in September 2015 and had 
completed about 2,000 miles  when Mr M entered into the agreement.
Mr M experienced several issues with the car. A brief summary  is as follows:
September 2016  steering rack repair and axle re-alignment completed.
February 2017  still experiencing  alignment  related problems. 
September 2017  alignment  issues repaired at an independent  garage. 
March 2018  - Mr M agrees a refund from the manufacturer of £158.62 as a full and 
final settlement.
April 2018  problems  with electric windows; boot rattle; noise when in reverse  and a 
defective fuse box trim. All resolved during July and August but car not returned  until 
September 2018.
October 2018  heater and Bluetooth system repairs
The manufacturer provided compensation of £350 as they recognised Mr M had been given 
poor service. They also provided  a free MOT and a free MOT  and service  for Mr Ms partner.
Mr M told RCI that he wanted to reject  the car and to end the finance agreement  he had with 
them. But RCI didnt agree to do that so Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator noted that the £158.62 paid was in full and final settlement of the issues up 
to that date so she didnt  think  they needed to take any further action in regard to issues  
prior to this payment. She noted that Mr M continued to experience problems with the car 
and in July 2019 the manufacturer had agreed to provide assistance with a part exchange of 
his vehicle for another. She understood that Mr M was also unhappy  with this car but she 
explained that would have  to be considered  by the business as another complaint. 
She understood that RCI had subsequently  enhanced its offer to Mr M and were prepared  to 
provide a rebate of 10% of monthly  instalments that hed paid between  March 2018 and 
June 2019 or pay him £400  compensation. But she didnt think theyd gone far enough. 
She thought  it was clear Mr M had been  inconvenienced by matters and she didnt think  the 
business had taken account  of his impaired use; repeated trips to the dealership;  multiple 
repairs and the time hed had without the car of his choice.  She also noted that the courtesy 
car that had been provided  was one that was less fuel efficient.
However, she understood that Mr M had already  received  compensation of £350 from the 
manufacturer; a free MOT; a free MOT and service for his partner and payment for a couple 
of tyres that had been worn by the alignment issues. She also noted hed received a 
discount on the replacement car and that his part exchange value had been inflated.
Ref: DRN45618472So taking all that into account the investigator thought a more reasonable way forward would 
be for RCI to repay 10% of instalments Mr M had made towards his agreement between  
March 2018 and June 2019  and to provide compensation of £250.
RCI agreed with the investigators view but Mr M didnt. He thought they should return 15% 
of his payments  and that they should  also refund the road tax he was paying for his new 
vehicle. He said the previous vehicle was road tax exempt and this cost was therefore one 
he neednt have had to pay. He therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr M so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I note that Mr M accepted  a settlement from the manufacturer in March 2018. The letter  he 
signed says the offer of £158.62 is in full and final settlement of all claims against the 
manufacturer. I doesnt say Mr M cant make a claim against RCI but I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable to suggest  Mr M should  be able to claim again, so I wont be taking 
these issues into account as I think Mr M has been fairly compensated already.
However since March 2018 Mr M has experienced additional issues  and I think a reasonable 
person wouldnt  expect a car that was nearly  new when Mr M took receipt of it, to experience 
so many faults. They would, I think,  consider that it hadnt been suitably durable and 
therefore that it hadnt been of satisfactory  quality.
But I can see that Mr M has, through the manufacturer at least, been able to achieve some 
redress for the problems  hes experienced. Ive listed the awards that have already been 
made to him in the background  information.  Theyre not insignificant but I would agree with 
the investigator that they dont quite  go far enough.
Ref: DRN45618473Mr M has been inconvenienced by his experience.  In particular hes had to return  his car for 
repair on several subsequent occasions and has been without his car for some  time. Im 
persuaded that the courtesy car thats was provided  wont have been as fuel efficient as 
Mr Ms as fuel efficiency  was a particular feature of the car he was financing.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask RCI to repay Mr Ms road tax. It was his choice to 
negotiate the model of car that he did with the manufacturer. RCI appear to have played no 
part in that negotiation and it would not be fair to ask them  to compensate  Mr M for a cost 
that he freely  chose to be liable for.
So, having  taken all these  aggravating and mitigating facts into account, I think  the redress 
the investigator has suggested  is about  right and need not be enhanced any further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell RCI Financial 
Services Limited to:
refund  10% of all monthly instalments paid between March  2018 and June 2019 and 
add 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4561847