K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Sandringham Financial Partners Limited  (Sandringham) gave him 
unsuitable advice.  In particular he says the advice to transfer two personal pension  pots to a 
SIPP was unsuitable.
background
In mid 2018  Mr R discussed  his pension planning  with an adviser at Sandringham. It 
appears that Mr R only wanted  advice on what to do with three  pension  pots he held. 
Sandringham says Mr R did not supply us with any pension  paperwork, values or 
projected income in retirement values for your current workplace pension, nor any other 
pension plans held...
The information provided, shows that Mr R wanted his adviser  to review the three  pension  
plans to see whether  they were invested in line with his attitude to risk and to consider ways 
to reduce the costs associated with the plans. It appears the pension plans reviewed were all 
invested in with-profits  funds.
Mr R attitude to risk was assessed  as medium. 
In the suitability report, under the heading  Employer Pension Scheme arrangements it says:
In making my recommendation I have  taken into consideration other pension plans which 
you may have access to. It is particularly important  to consider any workplace schemes you 
could contribute  to.
Your employer currently offers access to a Group  Personal Pension scheme which  they 
contribute to on your behalf; you are a member of this scheme.
The adviser recommended that Mr R should  transfer two of the pension pots, totalling over 
£109,000 to a Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP). 
The adviser explained that some  of the funds in the SIPP would be managed on a 
discretionary basis. He explained  that this would  allow your portfolio to benefit from 
automatic rebalancing on a quarterly basis. This rebalancing will ensure that the original 
allocation between funds  and the cash account is maintained throughout the time of the 
investment.
The report  does not explain  why Mr R was not advised to transfer the pension pots in to his 
employers Group Personal Pension (GPP). 
The fee agreement  showed that a £400  up front charge  was agreed.  A further £1,500 was 
payable for implementing the recommendations.  In addition  an ongoing advice fee of 0.75% 
per year was charged on a monthly basis.
Unfortunately, it appears that due to an error on Sandringhams part the illustrations 
provided to Mr R did not include the ongoing adviser fee. As a result, the full impact of 
charges was not taken into account in the information provided to Mr R in the suitability  
report.
Ref: DRN40848252Shortly after Mr R transferred his funds into the SIPP he became aware that the illustration  
he had been provided with did not take account  of the ongoing  charges. Mr R complained to 
Sandringham. He also moved the money that had been transferred to the SIPP to his 
employers GPP. He noted that the charges were significantly less for the GPP. He said he 
felt the adviser  should have considered transferring the pension  pots into his GPP.
Sandringham accepted that it had made  an error. It said that the  presentation of the 
impact of an ongoing advice fee was not as clear as it could have been and not in-keeping 
with our usual standards. As a gesture of goodwill I would like to offer an ex-gratia  payment  
to represent the fact that these administrative errors took place. The amount offered is £200.
But it said it felt the advice to transfer two of Mr Rs pension pots into the SIPP  was suitable. 
Mr R was not satisfied  with Sandringhams response and brought  his complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said he felt Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He said he felt the adviser  
should have gathered information on Mr Rs GPP before making  a recommendation. Had the 
adviser done so, he said he felt it was likely  he would have advised Mr R to transfer the 
pension pots into his GPP.
In order to put matters  right he said Sandringham should put Mr R in the position  he would 
have been in had he been advised  to transfer  to the GPP. 
Sandringham did not accept our adjudicators  view. It said, in summary that:
-It did not think our adjudicator  had explained  why he felt its recommendation was not 
suitable for Mr R.
-Mr Rs GPP had been  discounted from outset as Mr R did  not wish to contribute  
any further funds  towards his workplace pension.
-The adviser had recommended a mix of active and passive funds  and this included 
funds managed on a discretionary  basis, rebalanced on a quarterly basis.  It said that 
these funds and the rebalancing facility were  not available  through Mr Rs GPP.
-Its recommendation was not based  purely on cost.
-Although not a deciding factor Mr R had wanted  to pay the ongoing adviser fee out 
of the plan. This would not have  been possible if the GPP had been recommended.
It reiterated that it felt the advice to invest in the SIPP  was suitable give the explicit charging 
structure, cheaper charging structure and funds  in line with the client's  attitude  to risk with 
the ability to remain  in line with the client's risk profile.
It accepted that Mr Rs GPP most likely did also provide the client  with a cheaper and 
explicit charging structure and ability to access funds in line with his risk level. But it said 
that the GPP did not allow Mr R to access the recommended blend  of active  and passive 
funds, the quarterly rebalance facility, nor the ability to pay for the advisers ongoing  advice 
fee from the plan enabling  the client to engage  on an annual basis  in line with the client's  
objective to merge  the plans into a "more  active"  pension  pot. The client wished to become 
more involved and active in his retirement  planning.
It also said, 
We believe there is some responsibility  on the client, in that he had seen  and actively  signed 
a letter  of authority  for his[name of provider] pension plans and was thus aware before 
signing up to the transfer that we were not looking into his other  existing pension  plans,  only 
Ref: DRN40848253his [name  of provider] plans. The client could  have said prior to committing to transferring 
that he wished  his workplace pensions to be looked into further, beyond  our discounting 
them at outset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr Rs complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Sandringham says that that Mr Rs GPP was discounted from outset.
It appears that Sandringham feels its adviser was justified in doing so based  on the 
statement in the suitability report that Mr R,  did not want  to make any regular or lump 
sum contributions at the moment because you are currently contributing to your workplace 
scheme.
But I dont think this was a sufficient reason for the adviser to have failed to gather 
information on Mr Rs GPP so that it could be taken  it into account when making his 
recommendation.
In the fact find it was noted that Mr R wanted to  consider  merging some  existing paid-up 
pension schemes, if practical, to both tidy-up his pension  provisions  and to take advantage  
of the increased  single pension pot investment.
It also noted that:
[Mr R] has been unable  to supply the information showing £0.00 for annual income derived 
from current Employer Company Pension
I accept that Mr R may not have known what his anticipated pension was from his 
employers scheme. But the adviser  was willing to request information on the pots Mr R 
wanted to consider transferring as Mr R did not have this information.  So I dont think it 
would have unreasonable for the adviser to have  also requested  Mr Rs permission to get 
information from his GPP provider. 
I note that Sandringham has said:
We believe there is some responsibility  on the client, in that he had seen  and actively  signed 
a letter  of authority  for his [name of provider] pension plans and was thus aware before 
signing up to the transfer that we were not looking into his other  existing pension  plans,  only 
his [name  of provider] plans. The client could  have said prior to committing to transferring 
that he wished  his workplace pensions to be looked into further, beyond  our discounting 
them at outset.
I dont think it is reasonable to say that Mr R should  have  instructed his adviser to look into 
his GPP. Mr R was paying for financial advice on what to do with his pension pots. I think  he 
was entitled to expect his adviser to consider any options that might be suitable, not simply 
discount from the outset potentially suitable,  low cost options. This is particular  the case  as 
Mr R had been clear that charges were an area he wanted the adviser to take into account.  
The suitability report set out under the heading  Why did you want to do this?
Ref: DRN40848254We discussed your reasons for reviewing  your existing pension now,  these are;
 You want to look at the alternative pension fund options available  to you.
 You want to review  your existing pension plans.
 You want to ensure that your plans are in line with your attitude to risk.
 You want to see if it is possible to reduce  the costs associated  with your plans.
(bold is my emphasis)
The adviser recommended that Mr R should  move two of his pension pots into a SIPP.  He 
said:
Why have I recommended this switch?
In reviewing your existing plans, we have considered the following two options  open to you.
 Remain with current provider.
 Move to the recommended  plan as stated above.
I recommend that you move your [two] existing  policies  to a SIPP  contract because;
 The existing funds  are not appropriate  for your attitude to risk as they are taking a lower  
risk than agreed.
While this is only two risk profiles down the funds are not mapped to this risk profile and 
could therefore  be higher  or lower than this risk profile at any time.
 After our discussions  you understood the Sandringham  way of mapping funds to your 
agreed risk profile and you wanted  your pension funds to follow this ethos.
 The cost of the recommended product is lower than your existing scheme  and this is 
highlighted later in the report.
 [name of provider] do not have access to the recommended  funds and do not provide any 
other funds  to transfer into.
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for the adviser  to only consider either  leaving the 
pension pots where  they were, or transferring them  to a SIPP. As our adjudicator  noted, 
once the ongoing adviser charges  were taken into account there was little, if any, reduction  
in the charges Mr R would incur if he moved  to the SIPP.
I appreciate that Mr R wanted to ensure that your plans  are in line with your attitude to risk 
and that the SIPP would  meet this objective. But I dont think  that the costs  involved in the 
SIPP recommended  were adequately taken into account when explaining the 
recommendation to Mr R. 
Had the impact of the ongoing adviser charge  being  accurately disclosed I think  Mr R may 
have decided not to go ahead with the SIPP. In reaching this this view I am mindful  of Mr Rs 
stated objective  to reduce the costs  associated with his pension plans.
Likewise I note that Sandringham has said Mr R wanted to pay the ongoing adviser charge 
from his pension plan.  It noted this would  not have been possible if the GPP had been 
recommended. But as Sandringham has accepted this should not have been a deciding  
factor for the recommendation. And I note that this was not one of Mr Rs stated objectives 
in the fact find.
Having carefully considered all the information  available I think that if the adviser  had taken 
Mr Rs GPP into account the benefits of the lower  charges and ability to access  funds  that 
matched Mr Rs attitude to risk would have more closely met Mr Rs stated objectives than 
the SIPP recommended.
Ref: DRN40848255As this is the case I think the adviser  did not treat Mr R fairly when he failed to take Mr Rs 
GPP into account  when advising Mr R.
what the business needs  to do to put things right 
My aim is to put Mr R in the position he would most likely have been in had his GPP been 
considered by his adviser. Based on the information  available I think Mr R would have 
chosen to transfer  his pension pots to his GPP and not a SIPP if his adviser had set out the 
cost and advantages and disadvantages involved of both options.
In order to resolve this matter Sandringham Financial  Partners  Limited should:
1.Assume the amount  received by the SIPP provider on 3 October 2018 had instead 
been transferred  directly  to the GPP  on the same  day. It should  obtain the value this 
fund would have  achieved as at 14 November  2018  had the funds been invested  in 
the same  funds Mr R chose when he transferred to the GPP.
2. Deduct the amount  transferred to the GPP  on 14 November 2018 from (1) to 
establish any loss.
3.If this calculation shows  a loss, pay an additional amount into the GPP  to raise its 
value by the amount calculated in 2 above,  taking into account any available tax relief  
and the effect  of any charges.
4. If payment in 3 above conflicts with any tax allowance  or relief,  pay compensation 
directly to Mr R less an assumed  20% to reflect the income tax Mr R would otherwise 
be expected to pay in retirement.
5.Set out the calculation in a way thats  easy to follow.
In addition Sandringham should also pay Mr R £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused him.
my final decision
My decision  is that this complaint should  be upheld.  In order  to resolve this matter 
Sandringham Financial  Partners Limited  should  carry out the above calculation  and pay any 
compensation due to Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4084825