K822xcomplaint
Ms R complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Alphera Financial Services,  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Ms R under  a hire purchase agreement  with Alphera that she 
signed in August 2018. She says that she returned  the car to the dealer about two weeks 
later because the engine failed. The car was with the dealer for about  a month and its engine  
was replaced with a reconditioned engine under warranty. 
There were then further issues with the car and it was returned to the dealer. It needed two 
cam covered gaskets.  Ms R said that she wanted to reject the car and she complained to 
Alphera and then to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She thought  that Ms R 
should be able to reject  the car and that her deposit  should be returned  (with interest).  She 
also thought that Ms R should be compensated £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Alphera accepted the adjudicators recommendation  and agreed to refund 50% of Ms Rs 
monthly payments  for the loss of enjoyment  of her car  but it says that Ms R has stopped 
making payments  to it. Ms R has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. She says, in summary, that when  the car went  back for the second time she 
was without a car for a few weeks  and she shouldnt have to pay 50% of her monthly 
payments for what should have been a free courtesy car. She says that she should  be 
refunded 85% of her monthly  payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alphera, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality. Whether or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Ms R was 
more than four years  old, had been driven  for 44,000 miles and had a price  of £42,697. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Ms R in August 2018  but its engine  failed  about  two weeks later.  
The cars engine  was replaced with a reconditioned  engine under warranty and Ms R was 
provided with a courtesy car. The car was returned to her about a month  later but she had 
further issues with it went  back  to the dealer  and she asked to reject  it. The car has been 
with the dealer since then.
The adjudicator said that Ms R should  have been  able to reject the car at that time so 
Alphera should refund her deposit (with  interest) and pay her £250 compensation. Alphera 
has accepted  the adjudicators recommendation. I agree with the adjudicator  that it would be 
Ref: DRN45122022fair and reasonable in these circumstances  for Ms R to be allowed to reject  the car. So I find 
that Alphera should arrange to collect the car from the dealer and end the hire purchase 
agreement. The agreement shows that Ms R made  an advance payment of £5,000  for the 
car. I find that it would  be fair and reasonable for Alphera to refund that advance  payment to 
Ms R  with interest. 
These events will have  caused distress and inconvenience to Ms R. I find that it would also 
be fair and reasonable for Alphera to pay £250 to Ms R to compensate  her for that distress 
and inconvenience.
Ms R was provided with a courtesy car when the cars engine was being replaced and other 
than for a few weeks after she then returned  the car to the dealer shes been provided  with a 
courtesy car since then.  I consider that its fair and reasonable for her to pay for the use that 
shes had from the courtesy car. But I accept that the courtesy car wont have been as 
satisfactory as her car for her to drive and that shes suffered a loss of enjoyment of her car. 
Alphera has agreed to refund to her 50% of the monthly payments under the agreement for 
that loss of use and enjoyment.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances  but it should  add interest to that refund. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund 85% of the 
monthly payments  to her  as shes suggested.  Alphera says that Ms R has stopped making 
the monthly payments to it. So I consider that the refund should be adjusted to take account  
of any payments that she hasnt made.  If its recorded any adverse information about the 
agreement on her credit file, it should ensure  that that information is removed.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint. And I order BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera  Financial Services,  to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from the 
dealer  both at no cost to Ms R.
2.Refund to Ms R the advance payment of £5,000 that she made for the car.
3.Refund to Ms R an amount equivalent to 50% of the monthly payments that shes 
made (or should have  made)  under the agreement  (adjusted  to take account of any 
payments that she hasnt made)
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Ms Rs credit  
file.
6.Pay £250 to Ms R to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Alphera to deduct  tax from the interest  payment referred 
to at 4 above.  Alphera must  give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if 
she asks it for one.
Ref: DRN45122023Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4512202