K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs V say they bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy documents that applied  to Mr and Mrs Vs PPI are no longer available, but I dont 
think this is surprising given how long ago the policy  was sold.  But I have looked at the 
nearest available policy which I think is the same  as, or at least  similar  to the policy that 
would have applied  to Mr and Mrs Vs to help me decide this case. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr V for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Due to the time that has passed, its not clear how much the 
monthly benefit was. But Santander say its likely that it would paid £200 a month towards 
their mortgage repayment and that the cost would have been  £13.90  per month.  
At the time,  Mr V was employed as a tool maker. He has told us he wasnt  entitled to any 
employee sick pay but would receive redundancy pay if he lost his job. He didnt have any 
other financial means, such as savings,  he could have  relied  upon to make the mortgage 
repayments in the event  he wasnt working. Mr V told us of a medical condition  he suffered 
from some  time before the policy was taken. 
As the policy was for the sole benefit  of Mr V, its his circumstances I will mostly be 
considering from the time of the sale. 
Due to the time that has passed,  neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs V can confirm  when the 
mortgage was taken or when it closed. But Santander has sent us screenshots to show  that 
Mr and Mrs V didnt  have a mortgage  that was still live in April 2008.
Mr and Mrs Vs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Vs representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs V 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Vs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN43929192claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs V about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs V 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs V received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Vs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
No credit agreement was live with Santander in April 2008.   That  means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN43929193complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Vs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs V sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN43929194-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs V, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent                  
Mr and Mrs V suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs V 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs V know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs V have said 
they were told they had to have the PPI in order for the lending  to be granted. 
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs V have been  able to provide copies of the documentation 
from the time of the sale. But as Ive said above,  I dont find this surprising given how long 
ago the policy was sold and the mortgage redeemed. But it does mean  I have limited  
information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is more likely to have  happened  
based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Santander says it would  have made the optional nature of the PPI clear  and would  not have 
sold it to Mr and Mrs V unless they had expressly  agreed to it. Santander told us customers 
were required  to complete  an application form and sign a direct debit bank mandate to allow  
the monthly premiums  to be collected from their bank account. This would  have been  
separate from the mortgage application itself and indicates the PPI was sold as a separate  
product. Based on what I have seen, Ive got no reason to doubt that Santander followed its 
usual process at the time. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs V knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs V agree  that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs V. It seems Mr and Mrs V cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Vs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr V would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr V 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN43929195Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs V given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs V, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr V met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs V had a need for the policy   Mr V would not have received any sick pay 
if he was unable  to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be 
limited and they didnt  have  any savings  they could fall back  on. The policy would 
have helped Mr and Mrs V manage the consequences if Mr V was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs V.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs V. 
There was nothing  about Mr Vs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding the pre-existing medical condition Mr V has 
told us about,  I note this was a childhood illness  and nearly  40 years before the 
sale  which was resolved with a one-off operation, so I dont think  Mr V would have 
thought it likely it would  have  been a reason  for which he would have needed to claim 
on the policy. There were also no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental health or 
back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr V be disabled  or unemployed for an 
agreed deferral  period  (of between 30 and 90 days) before they could make a claim 
and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for unemployment and 36 
months for accident and sickness, it still provided valuable cover  given:                    
Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the mortgage 
repayments relating  to their home  and the potential consequences should               
Mr and Mrs V be unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their 
house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs V 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs V were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr V was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs V 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs V agreed  to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN43929196Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs V, Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs V all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Vs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Vs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Vs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs V about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Vs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs V have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs V? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs V suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to            
Mr and Mrs V. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable  to 
conclude Mr and Mrs V suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs V would  have still taken out the policy,  had Santander done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs V, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs V have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs V would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN43929197Mr and Mrs V say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs V had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr V was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs V knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs V applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs V 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs V would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs V would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely                  
Mr and Mrs Vs expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs V thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr V knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr V 
wasnt a permanent employee/;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr V be unable  to 
do his usual occupation;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months for unemployment and 36 months 
for accident and sickness, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is the possibility the limitations and exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr and Mrs V pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
Ref: DRN43929198policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided  not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs V from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr V was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr V wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr V was in 
permanent employment.  
And as I have said above, the illness he told us about was from his childhood for which Mr V 
had an operation, and Mr V hasnt told us of any subsequent  problems, so I dont think this 
would have been uppermost  in his mind when he took the policy or that he would have 
thought it likely he would have had to make  a claim on the policy as a result of his childhood  
illness. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs V would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr V needed  to be totally unable to do his usual occupation.  I 
dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.  
So, it seems  unlikely they would have thought theyd been able to make  a successful claim if 
Mr V was still working.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs V that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period  for unemployment  and 36 months  for accident and sickness.  This may have 
differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for  but 12 months was a longer 
period than Mr V would have received employee redundancy pay and his statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs V would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 months for unemployment and 36 months for accident and sickness  would 
have been of benefit to them  and would help them manage the consequences should Mr V 
be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.  The policy  allowed for multiple  
claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time 
ensure their home was not placed  at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr Vs 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs V would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr V was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not   
Mr and Mrs V would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ref: DRN43929199Mr and Mrs Vs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs V would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs V found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs V believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs V in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs V compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs V think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave                
Mr and Mrs V, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1994  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Vs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs V and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
Ref: DRN439291910its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs V in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 September 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4392919