K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that Sherwoods (Darlington) Limited (Sherwoods) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan when he bought  a car.
background
Mr T took out a loan through  Sherwoods to buy a car in January 2009 and at the same time 
bought a PPI policy.  Mr T later complained he was mis-sold the PPI. Sherwoods  didnt agree 
the policy was mis-sold  and so Mr T brought his complaint  to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended  upholding the complaint. Sherwoods  didnt  agree  with that 
recommendation and asked  for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018 explaining I thought  the 
PPI hadnt been mis-sold by Sherwoods. A copy of that decision is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my provisional 
decision. 
The consumer, through his representative, has confirmed receipt of that provisional decision  
and said they have no further  comment, information  or new evidence to provide in response 
to my provisional decision.  
The business also has provided no comment or further information.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision no further  information or matters for consideration 
have been raised  by either party. Therefore there  is nothing  further  to consider which  would 
affect my findings and the outcomes I reached  in that provisional decision.
In that decision  I explained why I thought that the PPI policy  sold to Mr T hadnt been mis-
sold. The recommendation made  to Mr T was suitable for his circumstances and it was 
made clear he had a choice whether  or not to take out the PPI. The full costs were provided 
and I thought that Mr T could have benefited from the type of policy he bought as the 
benefits that could have  been paid were in excess of the costs.  And although it was possible  
there may have been some failings in the information provided to Mr T about any restrictions  
of the policy, I didnt think this would have  affected  Mr Ts decision to take out the PPI.
Therefore I confirm the findings I made in my provisional decision, which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
I dont think this PPI policy sold to Mr T was mis-sold  and Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint that Sherwoods (Darlington) Limited 
mis-sold the PPI policy to Mr T.
 
Ref: DRN43476062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Christin Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43476063Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr T complains that that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by Sherwoods 
(Darlington) Limited  (Sherwoods) alongside a loan when he bought a car.
background
Mr T bought a car from Sherwoods in January 2009 and at the same time as arranging the finance for 
him, Sherwoods sold him a PPI policy. The cost of the policy was paid for by a single premium that 
was added  to the amount  he borrowed. This meant he also paid interest on the premium at the same 
rate as the rest of his loan.
Mr T now says he was mis-sold the PPI policy  as he says he was given no information  about  the PPI, 
he couldnt have claimed on it and he didnt  need it. Sherwoods argue  the policy  wasnt mis-sold  as 
Mr T chose to take it out, it was suitable for his circumstances and he could have claimed  on the 
policy if needed.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response from the business and brought  his complaint to this service. He 
is represented by a third party.
Our adjudicator looked  at the information and said the complaint should be upheld. This was on the 
basis he had no dependents that would  benefit from the life cover part of the policy. 
Sherwoods didnt agree the complaint should  be upheld and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
I dont agree with our adjudicator and Im intending to not uphold Mr Ts complaint. I shall explain why.
The sale took place in a meeting and Sherwoods recommended to Mr T that he should  take out the 
policy. As there is no record of what was actually  said I can only make my decision  based on the 
evidence that has been provide to me.
Sherwoods has maintained that due to how long ago the sale took place it has no formal records of 
the sale but has obtained  and provided  some of the documentation from the lender. This includes a 
copy of the credit application. 
Ive firstly considered if it was made clear  to Mr T that he had a choice  whether to take out the PPI or 
not. On the credit agreement there was a separate box which  has been ticked  to say he wanted the 
PPI. I note all the top part of the form is typed but this box to select the PPI has a manual tick in it. 
This would indicate it was ticked when Mr T was reading  and signing  the form as he has signed  
immediately below the tick box to take out the PPI. He also had to sign separately for the credit part of 
the agreement. 
Overall I am satisfied that it should have  been  clear to Mr T that he had a choice whether  or not to buy 
the PPI. And it was his decision to take it out. 
As Sherwoods recommended the policy  to Mr T Ive also considered whether  it was a suitable 
recommendation taking into account Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale.
Ref: DRN43476064Looking at the documents provided it is clear from the Key Fact document that there were  three levels  
of cover, Gold, Silver and Bronze. Mr T took out the Bronze  policy which provided cover only for 
critical illness and life. To choose to select one of three different policies  I think its most  likely there 
was some discussion about  PPI and the different cover that was available with the each level. 
Mr T was self-employed. Because of the nature of his employment status  there may have been some 
restrictions on the benefits  he could  have claimed  if hed taken  out the Gold or Silver levels  of cover,  
which did offer wider ranges  of cover than the Bronze. But he chose the Bronze and this would seem 
to be because  he wanted some, if not all, of the cover it offered,  and he would  have been able to 
claim on the full benefits this policy  offered.
Our adjudicator said as Mr T wasnt married and had no children he wouldnt  have benefited from the 
life part of the cover, so thought the policy was mis-sold. But I dont agree with this. Mr T has stated 
he had a partner although  he wasnt married. And there was no reason  his estate would have  been 
unable to claim  the life cover if necessary, so clearing the debt for his heirs, be this his partner or 
extended family. So there  was value in the life cover for Mr T. 
Also he was eligible  for the critical  illness  cover, which would have cleared any outstanding debt for 
the loan if he had become  critically ill. I have  seen nothing to show he had any pre-existing medical 
restrictions limiting the circumstances when  he could claim on this part of the cover. So it would have 
provided a benefit of value to him at what would have been a difficult time.
As I have said I think  it was made clear the policy was optional and Mr T chose to take it out. As he 
chose one level of cover from the three that would have been presented  I think  he knew what  cover 
he was buying and at the time thought it would provide  reassurance and benefit  to him. He knew his 
personal circumstances when making the choice and may well have considered the life cover would 
help his estate, and partner,  if anything sadly happened to him. 
So overall I think  the policy could have been useful to Mr T. But Sherwoods also had to give him clear 
and fair information about the policys costs  and main features  so he could make an informed decision 
about whether to buy it or not. As I dont know exactly what was said at the meeting, again I have 
considered the documents provided.
The policy Mr T bought was paid for by a single premium paid at the start. So Mr T borrowed  extra to 
pay for this with his loan.  The full cost of the PPI was clearly laid out on the credit agreement  which 
Mr T had signed and dated. The cost of the PPI was set out separately showing the premium  amount 
that was added to his loan and the interest payable  on this, and the total cost of the PPI is also stated.  
I am satisfied  that this made Mr T fully aware of the costs of the PPI and that he still decided  to 
purchase the policy.
Its also possible Mr T wasnt fully informed of all the restrictions on the policy. But taking account  of 
his circumstances,  I have seen no evidence that Mr T was disadvantaged  by any shortcomings in the 
way that Sherwoodss  representative  may have described  the policy  to him. He would have been able 
to claim on all aspects  of cover provided  by the policy  if needed. So I am satisfied that Mr T would  not 
have acted any differently even if all the terms and conditions had been explained  more 
comprehensively or clearly.
The policy came with restrictive cancellation  terms  it provided a less than a proportionate refund if 
the loan were repaid early. In my view, this could be problematic  if Mr T had wished to refinance or 
repay the loan before  the end of the policy term. But Ive seen nothing so far to persuade me that, at 
the time of sale, Mr T thought that the loan and policy  would not run their full term.  So although 
I cannot be sure if Sherwoodss advisor  gave proper  consideration to this issue when  recommending 
the policy,  or met Mr Ts information needs  about this I dont  think Mr T would have acted any 
differently if the adviser had done so.
Ref: DRN43476065In summary, I cant rule out the possibility of shortcomings in the advice and information  provided by 
Sherwoods during  this sale. However, I think that at the time of the sale Mr T was made  aware that 
the policy  was optional, was not disadvantaged by any of the exclusions, conditions or limitations of 
the policy  and was made aware  of the full costs of the policy. 
So although I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, Ive seen no evidence that 
the policy  was mis-sold  by Sherwoods. It follows, therefore, that I am not intending to uphold  the 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, I dont think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold by Sherwoods  Anglia  Ltd so I am not intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4347606