K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Mortgage Express appointed receivers  to manage his buy to let 
property and wouldnt let him take it back or sell it even when he cleared the arrears.
background
It appears that Mr R has been  in and out of arrears, in a relatively  minor  way, over the years. 
But by the time when  the events of this complaint start, he was arrears  free and had been for 
some time.
Mr R doesnt pay his mortgages by direct  debit. He makes a series of ad hoc payments 
throughout each  month so that, overall,  he pays at least what he needs  to keep the 
mortgage up to date. 
ME says that he didnt pay enough over a few months, leading to a position where he was, in 
total, in arrears by just over the equivalent of two months  payments.  Mr R disputes that; he 
says he did make the payments, and ME didnt credit them  to his mortgage. 
Because  as far as ME was concerned  Mr R was over two months  in arrears, it wrote to 
him telling him that he was in breach of the terms and conditions  and the whole mortgage  
balance was now due. It also wrote to him telling him it would appoint Law of Property Act 
receivers to manage the property.
On the same  day the receivers were actually appointed, Mr R called ME. A few days later he 
made payments to bring  the mortgage back up to date. He then asked for the property to be 
returned to him. But ME refused. Mr R said he wanted to sell the property  and repay the 
mortgage. ME said he couldnt do so without the permission of the receivers,  and he would 
have to take the matter up with them. It wouldnt de-instruct the receivers.
The receivers then gave  notice to Mr Rs tenant. But the tenant  refused  to leave, so the 
receivers took the tenant to court. The court  dismissed the possession proceedings because  
the receivers hadnt shown that the necessary formalities had been  complied with. But in the 
meantime, relations between the tenant  and the receivers  had broken down, the tenant 
stopped paying rent, and the mortgage  fell back into arrears.
Mr R complained. Our investigator  thought  that ME hadnt acted unfairly, so Mr R asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the case. I reached  a different view, which I set out in a provisional  
decision. I said:
The terms and conditions  do allow ME to default  the mortgage,  and to appoint 
receivers, once the mortgage is two months  in arrears. But just because  ME was 
contractually entitled to do what it did, that doesnt  mean it was fair to do so.
In this case, I dont  think it was fair. Even if ME was right about the payments it says 
Mr R missed, he was only just two months in arrears.  I cant see that ME tried any 
other options before appointing receivers  such as contacting Mr R to discuss  the 
arrears position and find out what  had happened. If it had done so, I think  the dispute  
about what payments  had in fact been  made  would have come  to light  and been 
resolved  much sooner.  If ME had done that, everything that followed since could 
have been avoided. I think ME acted too hastily in defaulting the mortgage and 
Ref: DRN45840132appointing receivers,  and didnt explore alternatives first, as I would in fairness 
expect it to have  done.
Mr R made  payments to bring the mortgage  up to date within days of being told that 
ME planned to appoint receivers, and within days of them being appointed. At that 
point, with the mortgage clearly not in arrears, and the receivers  not yet having  taken  
any substantive  action, the receivers could  have been stood down and the property 
returned to Mr R. I think that would have been  the fair thing to have done  since  the 
mortgage was now up to date. Once  it was, there was no longer any need for the 
property to be managed  by receivers.
However, ME refused  to consider  that and left the receivers  in place. The receivers  
appear to have caused difficulty  with the tenant,  indirectly resulting in the mortgage 
falling into arrears again. As ME says, the receivers are in law Mr Rs agents,  not 
MEs agents  and so it isnt directly responsible for their actions. In fairness, 
however, Ive already said that ME acted  too hastily in appointing receivers, and 
acted unfairly in refusing to stand them down  and allow Mr R to resume  management  
of the property. Had it not instructed them in the first place, or had it de-instructed 
them when the arrears were cleared, the subsequent events wouldnt have happened 
and I think its likely  the tenant would have continued to pay rent and the mortgage 
wouldnt have fallen  into arrears.
To put matters right now, I think ME should de-instruct the receivers and return the 
property to Mr R. And it should write off the arrears which have accrued since the 
property was taken  into receivership,  so that the mortgage is up to date at the point 
at which  the property is returned to Mr R. Mr R has also been  caused substantial 
trouble and upset,  and I think compensation of £500 is fair in all the circumstances.
However, I dont think ME needs  to do anything about the disputed payments which 
led to the arrears in the first place. They were  credited to Mr Rs other  mortgage,  and 
the evidence leads me to conclude that its more likely than not that this was because  
Mr R didnt specify they should have been paid to this mortgage (though believed he 
had done) than it is that ME mis-directed  them.
In response, Mr R said that he had paid the tenants legal fees to defend the possession  
action, and he would like ME to refund  them. He also said that even when the property is 
returned to him he would now find it difficult to get a tenant and resume  paying the mortgage 
because of the coronavirus pandemic, so he would like ME to give him a payment holiday. 
He also said his credit  file shouldnt be impacted by the receivers being in place.
ME said it agreed with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision in light of the responses  to it. I note both parties accepted what  I 
said. In the absence of further evidence or argument, I havent changed my mind about what 
I consider to be a fair outcome.
Turning to the additional matters Mr R raised,  its not clear  to me why he paid the tenants 
legal fees. I dont think he was under any obligation  to do so, and I dont know  whether or not 
Ref: DRN45840133the tenant was eligible for legal aid. I dont think it would be fair to require ME to refund these 
costs. 
Since my provisional decision, circumstances in the wider world  have changed.  I understand 
why, during the pandemic restrictions on movement and economic activity,  it will be difficult 
for Mr R to find a new tenant once  the property is returned to him. The government and FCA 
guidance makes  clear that buy to let mortgage  holders are eligible for payment holidays 
where their ability to pay the mortgage  has been impacted by the coronavirus outbreak.  I 
think thats likely to be the case here. Mr R will need to contact ME to request  a payment 
holiday once  the property has been  returned  to him and, if the restrictions and guidance are 
still in place at that point,  one should  be granted.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I uphold  this 
complaint and direct Mortgage Express to:
De-instruct the receivers and return the property to Mr R within  28 days of the date 
we notify it that Mr R has accepted my final decision;
Write  off the arrears  that have accrued since the instruction to bring  the mortgage up 
to date, and remove  any reports of the arrears,  default or repossession it has made  
to the credit reference agencies;
Not add any fees charged  by the receiver, or expenses incurred by the receiver, to 
the mortgage balance or otherwise hold Mr R liable for them; and
Pay Mr R £500 compensation.
Once the property  is returned, Mortgage Express should also consider any application Mr R 
might make for coronavirus-related forbearance  in line with the regulators guidance  in place 
at that time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584013