K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say they were mis-sold a mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
Aviva Insurance Limited, as the insurer, did not sell the policy but has accepted responsibility 
for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to Aviva in this decision, rather  than any 
other business. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy for a mortgage  in 2002. Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their mortgage 
payments in case either of them was off sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I dont  think that this PPI policy  was mis-sold  
 Ill explain why.
Aviva was a completely separate  firm to the one that Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage 
with, and it had no effect on whether they got approved or not. I can see that when Mr and 
Mrs C applied for their mortgage, there was no mention  of PPI in the document. The lender 
then approved their application and offered them a mortgage. And in the notes  after the 
mortgage offer it says it recommended Mr and Mrs C thought about taking out PPI, so it 
looks like the lender wasnt even aware  theyd applied for a policy elsewhere. There  was no 
implication anywhere in the mortgage  documents that PPI was necessary or that it would 
improve Mr and Mrs Cs chances of getting  the mortgage.
I can see that Mr and Mrs C were  given a quotation  for PPI, which  set out its cost separately 
to the cost of the mortgage itself,  rather than as something that was necessarily included.  
Again, it didnt give any indication that it would improve  their chances of getting the 
mortgage. Then in order to set up the policy with Aviva, Mr and Mrs C wouldve had to 
specifically apply for it, separately to applying for the mortgage itself.  And they set up a direct  
debit specifically to pay for PPI  again, separately to their mortgage payments with the 
lender. Mr and Mrs C dont remember agreeing to PPI, but I think  thats understandable 
given just how long ago it was, and since buying  insurance is not often  memorable.  Overall, 
I think its most likely  that Mr and Mrs C wouldve  been aware they had a choice about 
buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Mr and Mrs C were advised to take PPI, which means the seller  had to check  it was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. For 
example, Mr and Mrs C dont appear  to have been affected by any of the policys key 
exclusions or limitations, and it looks like the policy  wouldve been affordable.
Ref: DRN45390692I understand Mr and Mrs C had some good  existing benefits, but the PPI covered them  more  
comprehensively. For example, once their sick pay reduced to just half pay that wouldve 
been a serious  drop in income, and their redundancy  pay wouldve only lasted so long 
especially for Mr C, who had only been with his employer for under a year at the time of the 
sale. Mr and Mrs C also said they had an unusually large amount of savings, though this 
isnt supported by the financial information  on their mortgage  application. In any case, the 
PPI meant they could  protect their savings and use them for other  things  for instance, to 
make sure they could  eventually pay off the interest-only part of their mortgage.
Mr C said hes never been unemployed since, but while  I understand his point, thats  
something he can only know  in hindsight and didnt know  at the time of the sale.  And 
generally, insurance is there to protect customers from things that might  happen,  even if 
theyre unlikely  not things that definitely  will happen. He also mentioned he couldve 
borrowed against a family members  property, but the PPI meant he wouldnt have to go to 
such extreme measures. And since the mortgage was Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility only, 
I dont think it wouldve been  appropriate  for the adviser to have recommended  they rely on 
someone else to pay it.
Mr and Mrs C said that at the sale they were fearful  of the consequences of being ill or losing 
a job. It sounds  like they took a reasonable approach  they really were at risk of losing their 
home if they fell on difficult times and got behind on their mortgage payments. Overall,  I think  
the PPI couldve  been useful for them in protecting their home and giving peace of mind.
The PPI quotation  clearly set out its cost, as well as what it would pay out. So I think Mr and 
Mrs C wouldve understood  how much they would need to pay for it. 
Lastly, its possible that Mr and Mrs C werent  given clear enough  information  about the main 
things the policy wouldnt cover. But as I said above,  Mr and Mrs C dont  appear  to have 
been affected by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4539069