K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that their home contents  insurer AXA Insurance  UK Plc has 
declined to pay part of their claim for items  stolen from a gym locker.
background
Mr R was at the gym when he found his locker  had been broken into. He found various items 
were missing including  a TAG watch. He reported  the incident to the gym and made  a 
claim to AXA.  AXA made  enquiries  with the gym and was generally satisfied that a theft had 
taken place. It settled  the claim  with the exception of the watch.
Regarding the watch it said Mr R hadnt  shown  sufficient proof that hed owned  the watch 
claimed for. Despite being asked for proof  of ownership, such  as a box or a manual, a copy  
purchase receipt or bank statements showing payment, Mr R was only able to provide one 
photo which he said showed him wearing  the watch claimed for. 
AXA had its jewellery  specialist examine the photo. It noted the watch  wasnt really in focus 
and half of the face was out of shot.  They said it couldnt be known from that photo what  the 
make or model of the watch was. Mr R then sent a close up shot which  he said was an 
enhanced picture  taken  from the previous photo provided. AXA said it felt it was unlikely this 
was an enhancement   given half of the watch face was actually missing from the previous 
photo. It said it wasnt prepared to settle the claim for the watch on the basis  of the current  
evidence available. 
Mr R complained to this service. In doing so he sent a further photo which  he said showed  
him wearing  the watch claimed for. This was shared with AXA and it noted that the watch in 
this picture had a distinctly different face to it than the one shown  in the enhanced photo 
Mr R had provided to it before. It said the provision of this photo wouldnt change  its decision 
to decline this aspect  of Mr Rs claim.
Our adjudicator explained that its quite  common for a policyholder to have to evidence  that 
they owned items claimed for as stolen. In this case he felt that AXAs decision to decline the 
claim without  further evidence of ownership  being provided was fair and reasonable.
Mr R was disappointed. He gave some further  details  to explain why he had no other 
evidence to show he owned the watch.  He said hed be happy if AXA just made settlement 
to him for any watch. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the evidence Mr R has provided,  and I can see that AXA has concerns about  
it. I know AXA wants Mr R to respond to its concerns and that if he doesnt,  and/or doesnt 
do so in such a way as to allay its concerns then it may take further  action. If that happens 
and Mr R is unhappy then he can make a further  complaint. For now my focus is on AXAs 
initial refusal to make  any settlement for the watch. 
Ref: DRN48959852Mr R has made a claim for a specific watch. So he needs to show AXA that he owned such a 
watch. He doesnt have  to show he definitely had a watch  of that type, but he has to show 
AXA that it is most likely  he did. 
The initial photo  Mr R provided showed  a watch of no discernible type or make. The watch 
wasnt clearly  visible  on this photo.  It seems unlikely to me that the enhanced photo was 
generated from this original photo.  But Im not an expert in these things, and AXA still wants 
to hear Mr Rs explanation of how that could be. So Im not going to say any more about it 
here. Apart from to note that no clear  link has currently been  shown to make me think  the 
enhanced photo is further evidence of the make or model of the watch which is partially 
visible on the original  photo.
The photo  Mr R provided to us does clearly  show a watch. And it does appear to have the 
TAG makers mark on the dial. But the dial is distinctly different to the face shown in the 
enhanced picture  which  Mr R wants to be accepted as being  the face of the watch claimed  
for. Therefore we now have two different watch faces that Mr R says are both of the watch  
that he is claiming for. But he is only claiming  for one watch,  therefore  both of these photos 
cant evidence the one watch being  claimed for. 
That all leads me to conclude that the photos  Mr R has so far provided as evidence of the 
watch he is claiming for are insufficient  in that respect. And Mr R says he has no other  
evidence to show what watch  he owned. Therefore, Im satisfied that AXAs  refusal to make  
a settlement for the watch Mr R claimed for is fair and reasonable. 
Whilst I see that Mr R is now prepared to accept a settlement  for any watch that isnt what  
he claimed for from AXA. Mr R claimed  for a TAG watch so before AXA fairly has to make 
any settlement to him he reasonably has to show AXA that he most  likely owned a TAG 
watch. So, Im not going to ask AXA to make a settlement  to Mr R for a generic watch.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4895985