K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 28 payday  loans  Ferratum provided to Mr S between 2015  and 2018. 
Mr S said the loans were  not affordable.
Our adjudicator upheld  part of Mr Ss complaint and thought the loans from 5 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Ferratum disagreed with our adjudicators view and made a 
goodwill offer to Mr S to refund  the interest  and charges on loans 15 to 28 and to remove  the 
credit file entries for those loans.
Our adjudicator felt there  wasnt  enough to say it was unfair for Ferratum to provide loans 
1-4. As Mr S has accepted our adjudicators view about those loans, I will not be looking at 
those loans in this final decision.
Mr S rejected Ferratums  offer because  it was not in line with our approach and the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
So I went on to look at the loans 5 to 28. Certain  factors might point to the fact that Ferratum 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN48086852I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 5 and 6 would most likely have 
shown that Mr S was not managing his money because  the checks would have shown Mr S 
was spending  money on different online betting websites and frequently  spending quite 
sizable amounts. So I think a proportionate  check would have shown these loans were not 
sustainable repayments for Mr S.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history  with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Ferratum should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
7. I say this because 
At this point Ferratum  ought to have realised  Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out seven loans within  seven months and had 
been indebted to Ferratum for most of that time.  So Ferratum ought  to have realised 
it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ss first loan was for £200  and loan 7 was for the same amount. At this point 
Ferratum ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From  loan 7 onwards  Mr S was provided  with a new loan within  days or weeks of 
settling a previous  one. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Ferratum. Loan 28 was 
taken out nearly two and a half years after Mr Ss first loan. And it was for a larger 
amount. Mr S had paid large  amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to 
Ferratum over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out when Ferratum continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
because:
Ref: DRN48086853these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ss ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I agree with our adjudicator and Im also upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 28 
(inclusive) and Ferratum  should put things  right for Mr S in line with our approach.
putting things right  what Ferratum UK Ltd needs to do
You shouldnt have given Mr S loans 5 to 28 (inclusive).
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ferratum  UK Ltd 
should put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2020
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4808685