K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001. Mr H says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr H didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. My understanding  
of Capital Ones online sales process is that Mr H would have been presented with two 
equally clear options as to whether to take or refuse  PPI. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude  that Capital One deviated from how they presented PPI on this 
particular occasion.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about his health at the 
time of the sale. But these  points dont change my decision. We asked Mr H for medical 
evidence about  his health in 2001. Although Mr H provided us with some more  details he 
was unable to provide  any medical  evidence which would confirm  that he was not well at the 
time of the sale. Given that in his PPI questionnaire  Mr H answered no to the question 
about whether  he suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale and 
that he mentioned  taking  time off work due to ill health while working  with employer A but the 
Ref: DRN49026042records show he was working  elsewhere at the time of the sale,  I couldnt conclude that it 
was more likely that he did suffer from a medical  condition at the time of the sale.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4902604