K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited hasnt settled her claim on her 
contents insurance policy in the way shed like.  
background
Mrs O lost her watch. So she contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Lloyds accepted  Mrs Os 
claim and said they could provide her with a voucher  for one retailer, which  Ill call A, to 
replace the watch  with for £1,795  the total cost of replacing the watch  with a new one. 
Mrs O said she wanted a replacement but wanted  to buy it from a different retailer, which Ill 
call B. Mrs O wanted to buy it there  because shed  been a longstanding  customer  of B and 
when she went into an A store, she was told they didnt stock the particular watch  shed had. 
Lloyds said Mrs O could go to B if she wanted  to, but because their supplier  discount  with B 
was less, the value theyd  give her to use at B would be £1,246.25. Mrs O wasnt happy with 
this and didnt  think it was fair that she would get less towards replacing her watch  because  
she wanted to go to a particular shop.  
Mrs O complained to Lloyds and they said theyd correctly offered Mrs O the various 
settlement options;  including vouchers for A of £1,795 or for B of £1,246.25 and a cash  
option of £977. Lloyds  did accept  that the service Mrs O had received  was below the 
standard itd expect and offered her £100  for any inconvenience this had caused. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Os complaint. He said, in summary, that he thought Lloyds 
had offered to settle Mrs Os claim in line with the terms and conditions. Mrs O wasnt  happy 
with this. She said she felt wed taken  the business side. As Mrs O didnt agree, the 
complaints been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to reassure Mrs O that Ive taken 
everything shes told us into account  as well as what Lloyds has provided. Having done  so, I 
dont think Lloyds has treated Mrs O unfairly and Ill explain why. 
Mrs Os policy offers to repair or replace her watch. But, it does say it can make  a money 
payment instead.  If the insurer makes a money payment  itll take into account any supplier 
discounts it gets. So Ive considered the offer made to Mrs O  to decide whether  it is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions. 
Insurers use vouchers because they get discounts  from certain suppliers. So the cost to the 
insurer is less than the value of the voucher. And its for this reason the value of the voucher 
being offered  at A, is higher than the one being  offered for B. 
Lloyds has provided  evidence of the discounts  it receives at each of the suppliers and I can 
see what its offered Mrs O in vouchers reflects the level of discount  it gets from each 
supplier. So I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong by offering Mrs O a lower 
voucher value for B.
Ref: DRN49435012The cash  option  is lower  still, but this is still because  Lloyds gets a discount for the watch if 
bought through its suppliers. So Im satisfied the cash offer is reflective of what  it would cost 
Lloyds to replace  the watch taking into the discounts its shown it would get. So I dont think 
theres anything wrong with the cash offer Lloyds has made either. 
Part of the reason Mrs O didnt want to go to A to get the watch  was because shed been to 
one of As stores, and they didnt have the watch she wanted. But shed been told by 
someone over the phone that A did have the watch.  I think theres been a misunderstanding  
here. 
Lloyds have confirmed  with A that they will order the specific watch  Mrs O is looking for in; 
either for collection at a store  or to her home.  So while it might not have been available  in or 
on display in the store Mrs O went to; Im satisfied that if Mrs O chose  to use A to replace the 
watch shed be getting the same  make and model shes seen is available at B. 
I appreciate that Mrs O has found  the process of making this claim particularly  stressful  
because the watch  itself was sentimental  to her and because  shes  been in poor health  
recently. Having considered everything  thats happened,  I think  that Lloyds couldve been 
clearer with Mrs O at times; particularly about information they needed initially  to validate the 
claim  - and then later when  explaining  about the vouchers and sourcing the watch from A. 
But I dont think they did anything wrong  in the settlement  of her claim, so I think  £100 fairly  
reflects any confusion and inconvenience  caused to Mrs O by Lloyds not being as clear as 
they couldve been. 
I understand at one point Lloyds had paid Mrs O the cash value but shes  since returned  it. 
And Lloyds  has told us that the voucher options remain  available;  so Mrs O should get back  
in touch with Lloyds when shes decided which option shed like to take.  Given Im satisfied 
Lloyds offer is fair and reasonable, I dont agree they need to give Mrs O a voucher for the 
full value at B.
my final decision
As Ive said,  Lloyds has offered Mrs O £100  in recognition  of her distress and inconvenience.  
I conclude thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint.  I require  
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs £100, if they havent  done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4943501