K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd unfairly refused a theft claim on his taxi 
insurance policy.
background
In June 2018 Mr S taxi was stolen. Accredited refused his claim for the loss. It said the 
policy terms required him to take all reasonable steps to protect the car from loss or 
damage. It said he had failed to adequately  protect  it from theft, after one of its keys was 
stolen in a burglary.
Mr S complained. But Accredited didnt change its position. So he came to this service. Our 
Investigator said Accredited had refused the claim fairly. He didnt recommend it do anything 
differently. Mr S didnt  accept that. So the complaint has come  to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not interfering with 
Accrediteds decision not to pay Mr S claim.  
Accredited has relied on a term in Mr S policy to refuse the claim. It requires him to take all 
reasonable steps to protect the car from loss or damage. For Accredited to fairly  refuse the 
claim by relying on this term, it needs to show Mr S recognised  there was a risk to his car 
and then failed  to take adequate measures to protect it. 
Accredited says Mr S recognised the risk  it says he was aware that the key and security 
codes for the car needed to be changed  following the theft of the key. It says he then didnt 
make arrangements  to protect the car  like having  its key system recoded to prevent the 
stolen one being used in a theft.
Mr S said he contacted the car manufacturers  dealer to find out about  recoding its security 
system. So it seems he recognised the theft of the key put his car at risk.
  
Accredited says Mr S didnt take adequate steps to protect the car. It points to him 
continuing to park it at the address the key was stolen from. And it says ten days  later he 
hadnt had the security  system recoded. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about  this. He feels he did take reasonable steps  to 
protect his car. He says he had made enquiries  about recoding the security system. He says 
he was planning  on taking the car there on the Monday. But the car was stolen on the 
preceding Saturday.  He also says he didnt have the funds to pay for recoding earlier.
Mr S has also said his car was blocked  in by another when it was at the address it was taken  
from. This was to prevent its theft.  He says his car was used to force  the other car out of the 
way. But photos  of the other car dont show the type of damage  Id expect to see if it had 
been forced out of the way. They just show scuffed paintwork on a corner bumper. 
In Mr S witness  statement to Accrediteds  claim investigator he says the other car was 
parked slightly behind his. He says it was damaged when his collided with it whilst being 
taken. But he doesnt explain it was parked with the intention of protecting  his. It doesnt  
Ref: DRN48790062seem like it was deliberately parked in a way that made it particularly difficult to remove his. 
Overall Im not persuaded  thats  probably what happened.
So considering the time since the theft of the key, the car being  parked at the same address 
it was stolen from and the lack of physical protection of the car I cant say Accrediteds 
opinion that Mr S didnt  take reasonable to steps  to protect his car after is unreasonable. So 
it can fairly rely on that term to refuse the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not interfering  with Accredited Insurance  (Europe) Ltd refusal to 
pay Mr S claim  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4879006