K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his buildings insurance.  And he said it took too long to notify  him of its decision.
background 
Mr E called RSA on 15 August 2018  to let it know he had a leak in his roof two days earlier 
which he believed was the result of a storm. Water  had come through the ceiling in his 
master bedroom  and bathroom causing damage  to the ceilings.
RSA said that it would open a claim and asked that Mr E provide  two quotes for the repair so 
it could consider these.  And it provided an email  address for him to send these to. 
On 24 August 2018 Mr E called RSA to say he was having problems uploading the images  
for the damage.  RSA suggested sending its loss adjuster  to confirm the cause of the 
damage and the claim and agree  the works. Mr E confirmed the repair work had already 
been completed but he had photos before and after to show what  was needed.
RSA spoke with the contractor  Mr E appointed to ask what  he thought the cause of damage 
was. He wasnt unable  to confirm, if this was storm damage,  when  it would have happened.  
RSA appointed its loss adjuster to inspect  the damage retrospectively and confirm  what it 
believed the cause of this to be. The loss adjuster didnt think  the cause of damage  was 
related to a storm as it couldnt confirm there was storm weather at the time.
On 2 October 2018 RSA called Mr E to let him know it would be declining  his claim as it 
didnt think the cause of the damage  was a storm. It looked at the weather  reports  for around 
the time Mr E first notified them of the leak and this didnt show weather which  met the 
conditions it would expect  to be classed as storm. 
Mr E said the quotes he provided all showed  the cause of damage  was storm damage and 
although the storm conditions might not have been around the time he noticed the leak  
due to a large  period of dry weather prior to heavy rain  he still felt previous storm 
conditions had caused the damage. Mr E complained about the decision to reject his claim 
and the time it had taken for this to be reached.
RSA responded  to Mr E in its letter dated  5 October  2018 (Mr E said this wasnt received for 
a number of months).  RSA said it still believed there  was too little information to show the 
damage caused was as a result of storm conditions.  But it could see that it hadnt  handled  
his claim as well as it could have and it could have  explained the outcome sooner than it did. 
Because of this it sent Mr E £50.00  for the inconvenience  it caused.
Our investigator looked at Mr Es complaint and agreed that there  wasnt  enough evidence to 
show that the damage to Mr Es roof was the result of storm conditions. He also agreed that 
RSA hadnt handled the claim as promptly as it could have. He didnt  think  its offer of £50.00  
for the inconvenience  this matter caused was fair. And he recommended this be increased  to 
a total of £100.00, asking  RSA to pay an additional  £50.00.
RSA accepted to pay the additional  £50.00  but it said the minimal  increase wasnt really  
needed as it believed what it had paid already was already  fair compensation.
Ref: DRN48531862Mrs E didnt accept, he believed the damage  to be caused by storm conditions and he felt 
the claim should be accepted by RSA. Because of this the complaint has been  passed to me 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
the complaint  in part  for much the same  reasons  as our investigator. I know  this isnt the 
answer Mr E was hoping  for but Ill explain  why.
Theres two questions to consider with this complaint, firstly  was RSA fair to decline Mr Es 
claim. And secondly,  was the acknowledgement and offer of compensation for the service  it 
provided when  assessing the claim fair.
Mr Es claim was made  for storm damage  which  is an insured peril under the building  and 
contents policy he has with RSA. When considering whether a claim for storm damage has 
been fairly declined there  are three questions I need  to ask. If the answer  to any of these is 
no, Id consider the business has been fair to decline  the claim.
1.    do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.    were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mr E has said he believes  the damage  to his roof was caused by storm conditions. But these  
conditions may have occurred some  months  before he noticed the damage. I appreciate that 
last year the weather was particularly dry during the summer months after a very cold winter  
and Mr E has provided information  to demonstrate the severity  of storms in and around  
where he lived during  the winter and spring  months.  But I dont think its likely that any 
damage caused in April could reasonably have been  unnoticed  until early August.
Around the time Mr E reported  the damage to his house the weather reports  indicate the 
conditions wouldnt be considered as storm. Mainly because the speeds  of the wind and 
average rainfall wasnt at the level commonly accepted as storm conditions. So I dont  
believe that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage  happened.
As the answer  to question one is no, I dont need to consider the other two questions. And I 
dont think RSA was unfair when it said it wouldnt  pay Mr Es claim for storm damage.  
When handling and assessing claims RSA has a responsibility to do so promptly  and this is 
set out within the relevant regulations for their claims  handling.  RSA has said it doesnt 
believe it met this expectation  on this occasion  and it couldve told Mr E sooner that it was 
declining his claim.
RSA feels the compensation it offered in recognition of this failing is fair and that the 
increase of £50.00 recommended by our investigator isnt warranted  as ultimately although  
it could have given  Mr E its answer sooner,  the decision to reject  the claim was fair.
Ref: DRN48531863I agree  with the recommendation of our investigator on this case  and will explain why. I 
understand there is comparatively  little difference between the award  of £50.00  and £100.00 
but I think this is justified and £100.00 is a fair reflection for the inconvenience caused.
Mr E called RSA and took instructions  on what he needed to do with his claim. And he 
explained the steps hed taken to start getting the damage repaired. In this call I dont think it 
was made  clear what RSA would  be taking account of with the claim and it being paid. It was 
apparent that Mr E had an expectation  at this point that providing he supplied  copies of two 
quotations for the work needing  to be done, this should be paid to him  less the deduction 
of his excess. So from notification of the claim, Mr E had an expectation it would likely be 
paid.
I think it was clear Mr E wanted  to get the work  done  as soon as possible on his property  
and the quotes he provided  show he chose the most competitive  one. But he did this with 
the expectation for longer  than was fair, that RSA would be reimbursing him the cost of this 
work. I dont  think its unreasonable to believe that on realisation this wouldnt be paid after 
almost two months that he was frustrated and upset.  
I feel an award of £100.00 is a fair and reasonable award for this trouble and upset.  And 
because of that, RSA should pay an additional £50.00 to increase its offer to this in line with 
our investigators recommendation is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should pay Mr E an additional £50.00  to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in its handling of the claim  taking its total 
award to £100.00.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4853186