K820x#14complaint
Mr R acquired  a new vehicle in January 2017,  by hire purchase with Black Horse Limited. He 
complains that the vehicle  was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. He wants 
Black Horse  to accept rejection of the vehicle.
background
Mr R said his vehicle suffered two breakdowns in less than 15 months,  while travelling at 
more than 50 mph  which has caused him to lose confidence in his vehicle. He complained  
to Black Horse after the second breakdown in March 2017.
Black Horse  responded  to Mr R, saying:
The supplying dealership confirmed that the vehicle had been returned to it with 
different electrical  problems on two occasions  
oon the first occasion (11 months  after the point of supply), an electrical 
component was found to be faulty, and was replaced under warranty
oon the second occasion, an electrical problem had caused the engine to cut 
out, which in turn caused damage  to the engine
othe problem  developed from a manufacturing fault 
othe engine  did not need  to be replaced, but was rebuilt under warranty, 
replacing damaged  parts with new parts
The first breakdown was repaired before Mr R asked Black Horse  to investigate this 
matter, and so it could not ascertain  whether or not the problem was a point of supply 
fault  in these  circumstances,  it was unable to uphold this aspect of his complaint
It upheld the aspect of his complaint  relating to the second breakdown, but it 
considered rejection  to be a disproportionate  remedy  it felt that repairing the vehicle 
was a fair and reasonable outcome
It also offered  Mr  R compensation  
o£239.43 for loss of use for use of his vehicle while it was being  repaired in 
March 2017
o£100 for trouble and upset caused  to him by the second breakdown 
Mr R disagreed with Black  Horse and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator felt the 
settlement offered by Black Horse  was fair and reasonable.  Although  she added that, if Mr R 
could provide evidence of continuing problems with his vehicle, she would reconsider this 
view.
Mr R told us that, following the second  breakdown, he had made only very limited use of his 
vehicle for occasional journeys at low speed.  And so this complaint was referred for review 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN40779312Black Horse  has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory  quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means  that a reasonable 
person would have regarded  the goods  as satisfactory,  taking  into account all relevant 
circumstances, which for cars include age and mileage travelled.  But there are limits to 
Black Horses responsibilities. In particular, faults  must  be present or developing at the point 
of supply.
Black Horse  has accepted  responsibility in relation to the second, but not the first, 
breakdown. In the absence of evidence that the electrical component which  caused the first 
breakdown had a point  of supply fault,  I am unable (on balance) to find in Mr Rs favour.  I 
accept there  is a likelihood that the fault was caused by wear and tear, rather  than a 
manufacturing problem.  
I also accept Black Horses argument  that the remedy  for the second breakdown, which was 
caused by a point of supply fault, should be proportionate. Our investigator contacted the 
supplying dealership, and established  that the vehicles engine  was rebuilt (rather than 
replaced). She also invited Mr R to tell us about  any continuing problems with the vehicle, 
which might  have suggested rejection was a proportionate remedy.
I sympathise with Mr R, who says that he has lost confidence in his vehicle. But, without 
further evidence,  I am again unable (on balance)  to find in his favour.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £100 in this instance (as offered by Black  Horse) is appropriate, 
given the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint. It is consistent with our approach  to awarding  
compensation, and with those case descriptions and awards.  And I feel the compensation 
offered for loss of use is similarly  appropriate.
I understand that Black Horse is now making  this compensation payment to Mr R.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077931