K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited misrepresented  a hire purchase 
agreement.
background
Mr D signed a finance agreement with BMW to buy a car in June 2018. The agreement  was 
to pay a £6,000 deposit  followed by monthly  repayments of £552. Mr D says he told the 
agent he didnt  have the deposit to pay in July but was told to sign the documents anyway 
and it would hold on to the car, with no payments due, until the deposit was paid. Due to a 
death in the family, Mr D says he was out of the country until September,  but completed the 
payment of the deposit on 1 October 2018  and collected the car. But he says BMW  sent a 
termination letter a week later due to missed  payments. Mr D says the car was repossessed 
in December when  he took it to have  a fault repaired. He says he wasnt given a chance to 
make the missed payments and either wants the car returned  or the deposit back.
BMW says there was no representative  from BMW Financial Services present at the point  of 
sale but that the retailer said it was under the impression Mr D knew the agreement was live. 
BMW says the finance agreement paid out in July and the retailer settled Mr D's old 
agreement and agreed a collection date of 7 July 2018. The retailer  says it tried to contact 
Mr D about the £6,000  as it was unable to release the car before it received it. BMW says it 
has no evidence to show the retailer agreed to put the vehicle and the finance agreement  on 
hold until Mr D returned to the country and paid the £6,000. It says Mr D was liable for the 
payments when he signed the agreement.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She considered Mr D was 
led to believe the agreement would start after hed paid the deposit and queried  why the 
retailer would question  BMW about  the status of the repayments in July and August. Our 
adjudicator also found that, in fact, the £6,000 was for the settlement  of the previous 
agreement. She recommended the agreement should be removed from Mr Ds credit  file 
with nothing further to pay and that Mr D should be paid £500  for the inconvenience  caused.
BMW responded to say, in summary, that it did not believe  the dealer  would  have settled 
the prior agreement and requested payout for the current vehicle unless a collection was 
agreed between  the customer and the dealer. It added that it was not unusual for a retailer 
to ask about the status of a finance  agreement and there was no evidence  from Mr D to 
show the agreement  would be delayed until September.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, or 
contradictory, as some  of it is here, I must make my decision based  on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened.
Mr D signed the finance agreement on 29 June  2018 and was due to pay £6,000  towards 
the new purchase. At the time there was £5,700.92 of outstanding  finance on his previous 
car. Mr D says he was told the £6,000 was a deposit on the new car and, indeed, the 
business also used  this terminology in some of its correspondence. Im satisfied, however, 
that the £6,000 represented the shortfall  on the existing finance  agreement,  with £299.08 
being used as payment towards  the new finance agreement.
Ref: DRN40656242Mr D says he told the agent that he couldnt  pay the £6,000  immediately as he was leaving 
the country due to a family bereavement. Mr D says the agent accepted that and said he 
could pick up the car, and commence the direct debit payments,  once the £6,000 was paid.
I havent seen  any evidence in the paperwork that the finance agreement was to be delayed 
in this way, so I need to decide  whether I think it is more likely than not that the agent, acting 
on behalf of BMW Financial Services, misrepresented the agreement.
The agent  no longer works for the retailer, so Ive based my decision on whether Mr Ds 
actions, and any paperwork, were consistent with what he says he was told. I find it more 
likely than not Mr D was told the agreement wouldnt start until hed paid £6,000 because:
I have seen an email from the agent,  dated 10 July 2018, which asks When will you 
be able to pay the £6,000  deposit and swap over?
oAs this is dated after the start of the agreement, I consider this is a clear 
indication Mr D had not been told he was already  liable  for the repayments;
oThe implication is that the agent knew Mr D wasnt paying the deposit 
immediately and that the new agreement  would start only after hed paid it;
The retailer confirmed that the part exchange car wasnt  brought in until late July (as 
a gesture of goodwill );
Mr D paid half of the deposit on 11 September 2018, which is entirely  consistent  with 
when he said hed told the agent  hed be able to pay the money;
oI accept the total figure wasnt paid until 1 October 2018, but it was only at 
that point that Mr D arranged to collect  the new car;
Mr D called BMW  on 15 October 2018, three  days  after it sent the termination  notice,  
to explain that the retailer  was aware  he wasnt paying the deposit immediately;
In its contact notes on 17 October 2018, BMW Financial  Services says retailer 
appear[s] to have  been aware  of delay with deposit and collection  of vehicle.
So I find, on the balance of probabilities, that the finance agreement was misrepresented. I 
acknowledge Mr D would like either  his deposit, or the car back, but, as explained above, the 
£6000 he paid was primarily for the shortfall on his existing  finance. I also consider it fair that 
the remaining  £299.08 shouldnt be refunded as Mr D had use of the new car for a couple of 
months. That said, I accept Mr D was inconvenienced by the repossession  of the car and the 
stress of this situation, so I consider £500 to be reasonable compensation for this. BMW 
should also ensure the finance agreement is taken  off Mr Ds credit file, that he is not liable 
for any further payments and that any other  associated adverse information is also removed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited should:
Remove the agreement from Mr Ds credit file with nothing further to pay;
Pay Mr D £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused;
Remove any associated adverse information from Mr Ds credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4065624