K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg)  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background
Mrs H bought the policy in 2001, at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a copy  of the online card application process from the time of Mrs Hs sale,  
and Im satisfied that this is most  likely the process  she went  through.  I can see it had a 
section for PPI, which gave an overview of what it was for and what  it cost, and then had two 
options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. Both options  looks equally 
prominent and neither  one appears  to have been pre-chosen. According  to the electronic 
record of Mrs Hs application,  she chose  the option  to take out PPI. So I think its most likely 
that Canada Square made Mrs H aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if she no longer remembers doing 
so given how many years  ago it was.
Canada Square  didnt give Mrs H personalised advice  about buying PPI, so they didnt  have 
to check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs H enough information to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Mrs H chose to take out the policy,  which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. Mrs H 
only had very limited sick pay through work and had no other protection  at all, so the policy 
could have really  been useful for her if something went wrong.  And it was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mrs H could cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  
that better  information  about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN44282772My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4428277