K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that ActiveQuote Limited  arranged for him to switch private medical  
insurance provider,  and as a result  hes had a private medical  insurance  claim  turned  down.  
background
Mr P held private medical insurance  cover  with an insurer (that Ill call Insurer  A). He had no 
personal medical exclusions with Insurer A. 
In 2017, ActiveQuote arranged for Mr P to switch  cover  to a new insurer (that Ill call Insurer  
B). The switch was arranged on a continued  personal medical  exclusions (CPME) basis. In 
other words, any personal medical  exclusions he had with Insurer  A would transfer to his 
cover with Insurer B.
In 2018, Mr P needed an angiogram because there was evidence he had coronary disease.  
He made  a claim under his policy with Insurer B. His claim was turned down because the 
policy excluded certain treatments where the insured had any condition  before the policy  
started which would require any of the treatments. One of the listed treatments was heart 
surgery. Insurer B told Mr P that his angiogram wouldnt be covered because he had high 
blood pressure  and was taking medication  for this before the policy  started. 
Mr P made a complaint to ActiveQuote. He said hed made  it aware that he had high blood 
pressure and was taking medication  for this when  it arranged the switch, but it hadnt told 
him of the policys relevant exclusion. 
ActiveQuote accepted that Mr P had told it about his high blood pressure. It offered to cover 
the cost of the angiogram. Mr P was unhappy  with this, as he isnt able to take out cover  with 
another insurer, given  his heart problems. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 July 2019. My provisional findings  were:
The policy  explains there are additional exclusions that apply:
If your cover is subject  toContinued Personal Medical  Exclusions  
(CPME)treatment, investigations, or tests, required, for conditions  for which 
symptoms were present  at the time of your application,  will be excluded from your 
transfer of cover for a minimum period of 6 months.  Certain other treatments are 
excluded from your transfer of cover  for a minimum period of 36 months  where you 
have had any condition,  including in remission, in the 60 months  prior to the start of 
your cover with us which would require  any of these treatments after the start of your 
cover with us, heart surgery  (including  by-pass surgery),  cancer  care or treatment, 
psychiatric care or treatment, joint replacement or revision surgery.
The policy also explains  that at the end of the additional exclusion period, the insured would 
need to provide a medical report containing details about the medical condition. If the 
condition is no longer present for at least the additional exclusion period, then the insurer 
may lift the additional  exclusion. 
Mr P told ActiveQuote that he had high blood pressure (hypertension) and was taking 
medication for this. Given that ActiveQuote was recommending  the policy, I think it should 
have told him about the additional  exclusion and made him aware that it may affect him if he 
Ref: DRN44577642needed heart surgery because of his hypertension. If it had done so, I think Mr P would have 
remained with his previous insurer. ActiveQuote accepts this. The issue is how to put the 
matter right.  
 
Our aim is to place  a consumer back in the position they would  have been  in, had an error  
not occurred.  However, we cant do that here as Mr P cant go back  to his policy  with Insurer 
A. If he remains  with Insurer B, then he wont have cover for any heart surgery  he may need, 
even after the 36 month additional exclusion period  has ended (as the condition  has been 
present within  the additional exclusion period).  
ActiveQuote has offered to reimburse Mr P for his angiogram, which  I think is fair. But this 
doesnt take into account any future loss he may incur (if any).
Mr P has provided me with the results  of his angiogram. This showed he has vessel  disease.  
However, I see theres no further treatment planned at the moment, though  he does remain 
under review. As theres no planned  treatment, I cant require ActiveQuote to compensate  
Mr P for a particular amount. 
Having said that, I do think there  should be some compensation paid for any potential future 
loss. The difficulty in selecting an appropriate  figure is that there are so many  variables  
involved. 
For example, we dont  know that Mr P will even need future treatment for his heart, and if he 
does, the cost of that treatment. We also dont know for sure that Insurer A would have 
covered any future treatment that Mr P may need, or whether it would have decided  that his 
condition was chronic and would therefore  be excluded.
I also have to take into account  that Mr P chose  to leave Insurer A because he was unhappy 
with his 2017 renewal quote. I dont know what renewal price was, but he says the policy  
with Insurer B was more  competitive. If he had remained with Insurer A, he would have 
therefore paid more for the cover, and its likely the cost of the cover  would  increase  in future 
years. 
Overall, and taking into account all the potential  variables, I think a reasonable amount of 
compensation would be £500.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished me to take into 
account. 
Mr P responded to ask that I reconsider  the compensation figure. He says that heart surgery 
can cost thousands  of pounds, and hes self-employed so any time off or delays in waiting 
for NHS treatment can cause financial difficulties. He also says that heart  disease  is in his 
family as his father  had coronary bypass surgery. He thinks  the likelihood  is that he will need 
the same  surgery. 
ActiveQuote responded to say it was happy to pay the additional £500 compensation. 
However, it didnt think it should  pay interest  on the compensation for the angiogram up to 
the date of settlement. Thats because it had offered to reimburse Mr P for the angiogram in 
July 2018, however Mr P turned down its offer at the time. 
Ref: DRN44577643my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the same 
opinion expressed  in my provisional decision.  
I appreciate Mr Ps point  that heart surgery can cost thousands of pounds. And whilst I note 
that his father required heart surgery, this doesnt  mean that Mr P will need the same 
surgery or indeed  any surgery at all. The current evidence is that whilst he is under review 
for his heart, he doesnt need  any treatment.  
As theres  no treatment  planned, that means  theres no quantifiable loss. I therefore cant  
require ActiveQuote  to compensate Mr P for a particular  amount. Having said that, I do still 
think ActiveQuote ought to pay some compensation to recognise a potential  future  loss. 
However, as Ive said in my provisional  decision,  there are so many variables involved its 
very difficult to select an appropriate figure of compensation. I therefore remain of the 
opinion that £500 compensation would be reasonable  this also takes into account  that 
Mr P may never need treatment, and if he does, he can have this treatment under the NHS. 
ActiveQuote has confirmed its happy to pay the additional  £500 compensation. However,  it 
doesnt agree that it should  pay interest  on the compensation for the angiogram up to the 
date of settlement.  It makes the point  that it offered to reimburse Mr P for the angiogram in 
July 2018, however he turned down  its offer. 
Whilst I acknowledge that ActiveQuote offered to reimburse Mr P for the angiogram before 
he brought his complaint to this service, he was entitled to turn down  its offer and ask this 
service to consider  the matter. Interest should be payable on the compensation for the 
angiogram to the date of settlement as this reflects the fact that Mr P has been  deprived of 
that money.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ActiveQuote  Limited to do the 
following:
reimburse Mr P for the angiogram. Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
should be added from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement*.
pay Mr P £500 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44577644*If ActiveQuote  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr P a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4457764