K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to notify him of the date of his 
account switch  causing him to be caught without access to his current  account.
Background
Mr B opened  a new account  with Nationwide on 13 November 2018  in order to switch his 
current account to them. Nationwide sent out a new bank card and PIN through  the post and 
Mr B confirms that he received these. The current account switch went  ahead on 
26 November 2018.
Mr B complained to Nationwide that he hadnt  been told which day the account  would  switch  
so was caught out by it. He said that he was away from home on the day it happened and 
didnt have his new Nationwide bank card with him so couldnt  access  his money.
Nationwide explained  that theyd sent Mr B emails  on 14, 16 and 26 November. Nationwides  
system showed that those emails had bounced though. Nationwide  explained that there  
wasnt an issue with their system, and it wasnt their fault that the emails  werent  received. 
They didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr B didnt accept Nationwides response and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence  and formed the view that Nationwide  hadnt done 
anything wrong. She felt that Nationwide had sent the necessary communication  and it 
wasnt their fault that the e-mails hadnt  arrived. She felt that Mr B had been  provided with 
his new bank card in advance and that he would have known roughly when the switch  was 
happening having started the process  himself.
Mr B disagreed with the view. He further questioned why, if Nationwide could see the emails 
werent received,  they hadnt followed it up with a text message  or letter.  His complaint was 
referred for an ombudsman decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in this case shows that Nationwide did send email  notifications to Mr B. 
Nationwides record for Mr B had his correct e-mail address. Ive seen that a contact 
preference for email had been set for Mr B on Nationwides  system  so think that sending  
emails was a reasonable thing to have  done.
I cant say why the emails  werent received but cant say that it was Nationwides  fault. 
Nationwide explained  that the emails were sent automatically, and their system didnt flag up 
that they werent received. Mr B queried  why he wasnt  sent a text if they were aware that 
the emails had bounced. Im not sure that this is a fair interpretation of events though. 
Nationwide were able to say that the emails  werent received when they checked in order  to 
investigate this complaint.  That doesnt  mean  that their system  flagged up emails that failed  
to go through.  That didnt  happen so I dont think its reasonable  to say that Nationwide  knew  
or should have  known  Mr B hadnt  seen  the emails. In this case  I think  it was enough that 
Nationwide sent messages by the preferred communication.
Ref: DRN47142372Mr B didnt set a specific switch date,  but I think he would have known that the switch 
process was going ahead within the normal timescales. Nationwides  switching guide and 
the switching service website indicate that an account switch will take seven  days. I 
therefore think that Mr B probably knew roughly what  date to have expected  the switch  to 
happen. Also, he knew that he hadnt received contact from Nationwide and was expecting 
it. Hed received his bank  card and hed logged onto his internet banking on 21 November 
too. Given that he was expecting  contact  that he hadnt received I think  he could have 
contacted Nationwide to ask the precise date if he needed to know it.
Im aware that the switch  took more than seven  working days in this case. Nationwide  
explained that where a new account  is opened, they allow  a few days  for receipt of the new 
card and PIN before the seven working day switch.  I dont think this was unreasonable  and 
isnt something I think had a bearing  on what happened here.
Mr B explained on the date the switch happened hed travelled a long way to collect  a 
motorcycle and couldnt complete the transaction because he didnt have his new bank  card. 
Given the distance involved he decided to stay a further day to wait for money  to be 
transferred to him. He incurred overnight costs and losing another day of work. I know how 
frustrated he was by this. Hed received his card in advance  of the switch though which  he 
knew was going  ahead.  So I dont  think its fair to say it was Nationwides fault that Mr B 
didnt have his card with him. I can understand Mr Bs frustration at what happened,  but dont 
think its fair to say it that he suffered a loss due to a mistake by Nationwide. For these 
reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4714237