K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Craig  Mitchell  as the registered financial advisor  approved and, in 
effect, recommended investing £10,000  in an unsuitable investment bond in 2017. The 
product literature made various promises about guaranteeing  a return of the capital after 12 
months with a set level of return, neither of which materialised.
background
Mr Ps representative said he had limited understanding  of the risks posed  by the UKPDS 
bond and should not have been  advised  to invest in it as it posed too great a risk to his 
capital. The representative said Craig Mitchell had breached various FCA rules concerning 
his responsibilities as a regulated advisor, notably:
Conduct of Business  Rules
4.1 COBS 9.21.1  (1): You did not take reasonable steps to ensure that the recommendation 
was suitable for our client because you failed to consider the investment;
4.2 COBS 9.2.2: You could not have  reasonably  believed that the specific  transaction met 
our clients  investment objective;
4.3 COBS 9.4.7: You did not fully explain why the transaction was suitable,  based on our 
clients needs and demands, and you did not explain the possible disadvantages of the
transaction;
4.4 COBS 9.4.8: You did not give sufficient details  for the complexity of the transaction;
FSA Principles of Business
4.5 Principle 2: You did not conduct your business with due skill, care and diligence;
4.6 Principle 3: You did not take reasonable care to organise and control your affairs  
responsibly
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems;
4.7 Principle 6: You did not pay due regard to the interests of our client  and/or treat them  
fairly;
4.8 Principle 7: You did not pay due regard to the information needs of our client  and did not
communicate information to him in a way which  was clear, fair and not misleading;
4.9 Principle 9: You did not take reasonable care to ensure  the suitability of your advice;
He further argued  that it was impossible for Craig Mitchell to state  that the recommendation 
for Mr P to invest  was suitable when the investment itself had simply not been fully 
considered, investigated or advised upon. The FSAs Thematic  Review  of September  2009 
confirms that a Firm cannot give advice on a vehicle for investment without providing advice 
that considers  the overall transaction:  both the investment  vehicle and the underlying 
investments intended.  Craig Mitchell failed to carry out any due diligence on the investment.
When Mr P first tried to register  a complaint,  in 2019, he had by then received back  two 
sums of £1,640  and £258, and concluded, from the product providers correspondence, that 
the rest of his capital was lost and no interest  would be paid. 
After initially pursuing  UKPDS,  Mr Ps representative  brought a complaint against Craig  
Mitchell, a registered independent  financial advisor,  who had signed the application stating 
that the investment was suitable for him. 
Ref: DRN41244972Craig Mitchell said he had never  met or spoken to Mr P, had not assessed his suitability as 
an investor or recommended the product.  He therefore had no files or documentation  and 
was not responsible for Mr Ps decision  to invest.
Mr P confirmed that hed had no contact with Craig Mitchell and that it was a third party, who 
was not a regulated IFA or business,  which had encouraged him to take out the investment. 
He said this individual came to his house to help him write  a Will and talked  about  the 
UKPDS product, saying  he'd invested  in it for years and it offered a guaranteed
10% return a year.  
In a second meeting the individual  gave Mr P some paperwork, explained  how the 
investment worked  and got him to fill out the application. He said this would be signed off by 
an IFA meaning it had full FCA protection. He then took the signed application away  with 
him.
The first he knew about Craig Mitchell was when he received a copy  of his
application form months later. He eventually tracked  down  Craig  Mitchell who admitted he 
had a connection with the individual  whod recommended the investments and said hed 
signed the application form as a favour to a friend.  Mr P said he had made a recording  of 
this conversation.
An investigator at this service noted that neither the individual in question  nor UKPDS  itself 
was regulated by the FCA and couldnt have offered personal financial advice on the 
investment bond.  Also,  the promotional literature made clear that the acceptance of the 
Bond application  was subject to the applicant seeking financial advice from an authorised 
person i.e. an FCA-regulated advisor.
She also noted that the Bond application stated:
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct authoritys  Handbook of rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment as 
suitable for the above-named person.
Crucially, she noted  that Craig Mitchell had signed  and dated this statement providing  his 
FCA registration number  and other  key details.
In her View, dated 12 June 2020, she concluded  that Mr P could not have gone  ahead with 
this investment without  Craig Mitchell, as a registered financial advisor, confirming he had 
recommended it as suitable for him. As such,  she said he was responsible for the advice, 
which she deemed unsuitable, and was responsible for paying appropriate compensation.
She recommended he repay the amount Mr P had invested, less any payments received, 
plus 8% interest simple a year from the date of the investment  to settlement date on the 
amount invested.  He should also pay £150  compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr P as a result of this situation.
Craig Mitchell disagreed,  reiterating that he had never met or spoken to Mr P, or given him 
financial advice. He said his firm name, FCA number and signature  are on the application 
form as he was asked  to verify the identity and address of Mr. P, which he did in his capacity 
as a financial adviser. He added  that he had absolutely no idea about the state of Mr. P's 
finances or his attitude to risk regarding investments. A suitability test by an adviser would 
have been required  before Mr. P proceeded with this investment.
Ref: DRN41244973 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. 
I also agree  with Mr Ps representative about the regulatory responsibilities  of an FCA-
registered advisor and that Craig Mitchell did not meet these requirements when signing to 
say he had assessed the suitability of the investment for Mr P. This is why I quoted the 
relevant COBS rules  in the background section of this decision.
I am satisfied that Craig  Mitchell did not consider  Mr Ps circumstances and/or the suitability 
of this investment  for him. Mr P was not in a fully informed position to decide whether to go 
ahead with this product  and would not have  done so but for the reassurance that a regulated 
advisor would  guarantee it.   
Crucially, Mr P could not have invested in this risk-based  product without Craig Mitchell 
wrongly claiming he had considered his circumstances and judged this was a suitable 
recommendation. Without Craig Mitchells signature  Mr P would not have put his money at 
risk and subsequently  loss a substantial portion of it. Therefore,  Craig Mitchell is directly  
responsible for that loss.
I therefore instruct Craig  Mitchell to pay Mr £ 8, 102 plus 8% simple  interest  on the initial  
£10,000 investment  from the date of investment to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
8% interest will only apply  to the £1,898 Mr P has received  back  up to the date he received 
this money back.  (£1,640 on Dec 2017  and £258  on August 2018).
I also instruct him to pay Mr P £150 for the considerable trouble and upset this has caused 
him.
Finally, I should explain  that while I found Mr Ps testimony about what  Craig  Mitchell said in 
a phone call persuasive,  I have not relied  on this in reaching my decision as I have not been 
provided with or listened to the alleged phone call. While Mr P was entitled to make  a 
recording of the call without obtaining Craig Mitchells permission it would  not be permissible  
for me to listen to the recording  without such permission.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Craig  Mitchell to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124497