K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the amount Southern Rock Insurance  Company  (Southern  
Rock) has paid in claim costs when  a third-party  claimed against him.
background
This decision looks at the amount Southern Rock has paid in relation to the accident. Mr A 
has complained  separately about  his policy being declared void and this is also being  
considered separately.
Mr A was involved  in an accident  with a third-party driver. Mr As policy has since  been 
declared void and he has been asked by Southern  Rock to compensate  it for the amount it 
has paid to settle the third-party claim.
Mr A says the amount Southern Rock has paid the third-party is unrealistic and 
Southern Rock shouldnt have paid so much. He says the accident happened at a low speed 
and little damage was visible.
Our Investigator  considered Mr As complaint. He looked at what  Southern  Rock  had paid for 
each part of the third-party claim and thought the overall amount was fair. So, he didnt think 
Mr As complaint should be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed, so this complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has been asked to reimburse Southern Rock £9,557.08 for the amount it paid a third-
party after a claim was made.
Who was responsible  for the accident  is not in dispute. Mr A accepts that he reversed into 
the third-party when  it wasnt moving.  Therefore, he would be considered  at fault for the 
accident and responsible  for the third-party  costs.  
As Mr As last known  insurer, Southern Rock had a responsibility to settle  any third-party 
claims. It would then be up to Southern Rock to claim these costs back from Mr A if it had 
reason to.
I have looked  at the costs paid by Southern Rock which  included  the following:
Repair costs: £1,453.27
Storage: £517.50
Credit Hire: £3520.31
Personal Injury: £3,000.00
Solicitors costs £ 600.00
Medical and other costs  £ 466.00
Ref: DRN42797362Its not the role of this service to determine  what that claim should have cost. I can only 
check to see if the amounts paid by Southern Rock were reasonable based on the evidence  
provided. I will look at each of the above costs in turn.
Repair costs
Southern Rock agreed to pay £1,453.27  in repair costs  that were  as a result  of the accident. 
Southern Rock has shown us estimates  provided  by an engineer  for the damage caused  
during the accident which are in line with the final repair bill. 
Given the evidence  provided I think Southern Rock acted fairly in paying these repair costs.
Storage
Its not unusual  for a vehicle to be placed  in storage until it is repaired, if the owner  doesnt  
have the facility to store  it themselves. Southern Rock paid £517.50 for the storage costs put 
forward by the third-party.
The third-party vehicle  was kept in storage for 32 days as they stated they had no alternative 
place to store the vehicle pending repairs.  Southern Rock explained the vehicle was in 
storage for this time as the third-party  could not afford the repairs  themselves, and as they 
werent claiming through their own insurer,  had to wait until Southern Rock agreed  repair  
costs.
The third-party was not obligated to make a claim through  their own insurance  and it is often  
the case that a different method to make  a claim is used. In this case the third-party decided 
to use a claims management company. This is a popular option.
The third-party initially presented costs to Southern  Rock totalling £800  for storage at £25 
per day, although  Southern Rock negotiated this amount  down to the £517.50 Mr A has 
been asked to pay. 
As I explained above, it isnt unusual for a vehicle to be kept in storage  pending  repairs  and 
it would  be the at fault party that would be responsible for covering these costs. So, I dont  
think it was unreasonable for Southern Rock to cover the costs involved.
Credit Hire
It is considered reasonable for the party not at fault for an accident to request a vehicle 
similar to their own while the claim  and repairs are pending to allow them  to continue as they 
were before the accident with as little disruption as possible.
The third-party that made a claim against  Mr A relied on his vehicle for work and was in hire 
for 38 days.  The cost of the hire vehicle  was £110.39 per day and a cost was put forward 
totalling £4,612.82. 
Considering the third-party relied on his car for work and was entitled  to a like for like car I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Southern Rock to cover these costs. Although Southern 
Rock actively looked to reduce the costs  and settle  on a reduced payment  of £3,520.31. I 
think this was a fair amount to pay for the third-party  hire costs.
Personal Injury
Ref: DRN42797363The personal injury  claim  put forward by the third-party was supported  by a medical report  
carried out by a doctor explaining the injuries and medical treatment  sought  were consistent 
with the accident.
Southern Rock has explained  the £3,000 claimed  was consistent with the 14th Edition of the 
Judicial College Guidelines for the symptoms  reported. With the medical  report  to support 
the claim I think it would  have been  difficult  for Southern Rock to argue the amount and it 
was reasonable  for it to agree to pay this.
Solicitors Costs
Southern Rock paid solicitors fees of £600.  As the third-party used a claims management 
company to deal with their claim there were additional costs not always  incurred when 
claiming through an insurer. 
I think £600 is a reasonable amount for Southern Rock to agree for these services.
Medical and other costs
Southern Rock have also shown they incurred further costs to cover  physio therapy, medical  
and damage assessment  reports  as well as administration fees in submitting the claim. 
These costs were in excess  of £800 but they have only asked Mr A to cover £466 of this. 
 
As these  costs were  attributed to the claim made against Mr A I think  it is reasonable that 
they become a part of the claims cost and I cant say Southern Rock has acted 
unreasonably by paying these.
Overall, I think Southern Rock has handled the claim made by the third-party  well and made 
successful attempts to reduce  the overall  cost of the claim. Having considered all of the 
claims cost I think the amount paid by Southern Rock in relation to the claim is reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279736