K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains about various  charges being sought from her by Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  following her decision to voluntary terminate her hire 
purchase (HP) agreement.
Mrs P is represented in her complaint by her husband, but for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by Mrs Ps husband  as if they had been made  by Mrs P herself.
background 
In November 2015 Mrs P acquired a brand new car. The cost of the car was £22,485. Mrs P 
paid a deposit of £224.85 and financed the balance of £22,260.15 by way of a HP 
agreement with VWFS. 
In September  2018 Mrs P took the decision to voluntary terminate her HP agreement, as she 
was entitled to do, and returned the car to VWFS. Following the return  of the car VWFS  
invoiced Mrs P £803.22, broken down as follows:
£519.54 excess mileage charge
£283.68 refurbishment charge
Mrs P complained about the above  charges  but VWFS confirmed, by way of a final response 
letter (FRL), that both charges stood.
Unhappy with VWFS FRL Mrs P referred  her complaint to our service  in January 2019.
In April 2020 VWFS agreed to waive the excess mileage charge of £519.54. This offer was 
shared by our service with Mrs P who responded to say she wasnt prepared to accept it 
because:
she still disputed she should  have to pay VWFS a £283.68  refurbishment  charge
VWFS has failed  to comment on why two separate inspection reports were produced, 
with only the latter identifying damage to the car
VWFS has failed  to offer any compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
whole matter has caused her
VWFS (and our service) has failed to address  the the threatening and corersive [sic] 
letter dated  4th December 2018 sent by VWFS
On receipt of Mrs Ps rejection of VWFS  offer, her complaint  was allocated to one of our 
investigators for review.
Having considered what both parties  had said and provided our investigator  came to the 
view that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld in part and that VWFS  should  waive  the 
excess mileage charge as it had already  agreed to do and reduce the £283.68  refurbishment  
charge by £43.20.
VWFS responded to say it accepted the investigators view.
Ref: DRN43723912Mrs P responded to say that she accepted  the waiving of the excess  mileage charge  but 
that:
she should be compensated  for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has 
caused her
the refurbishment charge shouldnt stand (in its entirety) given, amongst other things, 
the discrepancy between the two inspection reports (one dated 24 September 2018  
and one dated 2 October 2018) and given that that the car had travelled 255 miles 
between reports
The investigator considered Mrs Ps response  to his view but wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. Therefore  the complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August  2020.  In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear Mrs P has very strong feelings about this complaint.  She has provided 
detailed submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that Mrs P will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably  less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address  every  point raised.  The purpose  of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also add that where  the parties disagree,  Ive made  my findings  on the 
balance of probabilities - in other  words,  what I think is most likely based on the 
evidence Ive seen  and the wider  circumstances.
excess mileage charge (£519.54)
VWFS agreed to waive this charge in April 2020 and Mrs P has since accepted this 
waiver. So other than saying I think this charge  should indeed be waived,  I make  no 
further comment on this aspect of Mrs Ps complaint.
refurbishment charge  (£283.68)
After this complaint  was referred to me VWFS  confirmed to the investigator that it 
was now prepared to waive  this charge. So other  than saying I think  this charge 
should indeed  be waived, I make no further  comment on this aspect of Mrs Ps 
complaint.
other matters
As well as submitting  that VWFS should  waive the charges of £519.54 and £283.68 
Mrs P also submits that she should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience this whole  matter has caused  her, in particular  the distress  VWFS  
letter dated  4 December 2018  caused  her.
Ref: DRN43723913First, I dont think VWFS letter dated  4 December 2018 is particularly threating or 
coercive. Although  I appreciate that Mrs P would have been upset on receiving it, its 
my view this letter was sent by VWFS  in good faith to explain what  might  happen if 
the sum it was seeking, and which it believed was due and owing  to it, wasnt  paid.
Secondly, although I dont under estimate the time and effort  Mrs Ps husband has 
spent on researching and presenting Mrs Ps complaint to our service, this wasnt 
necessary. Our informal role and inquisitorial  remit means that complainants dont 
need to submit formal  and legal arguments  in support of their complaint. Instead all 
they are required to do is to tell us, in the simplest of terms, what  they feel has gone 
wrong, or that they feel they have been treated unfairly or unreasonably, and they 
would like those concerns investigated. 
Thirdly my role in the particular circumstances  of this case  is to consider the distress 
and inconvenience  Mrs P has been caused and which  was avoidable, not the 
distress and inconvenience her husband  might have been caused. 
With the above in mind,  and having come  to the view that VWFSs could have taken 
the decision to waive the refurbishment  charge of £283.68 sooner than it did, I 
currently find that VWFS should pay Mrs P £100  for the distress  and inconvenience 
this whole matter  has caused her.
Mrs P responded to say that she accepted  my provisional decision in the main. But given 
that VWFS had wasted  both her and our services time, and that the matter had been 
ongoing for nearly two years, VWFS should  be punished more. In other words, she should 
be paid £250 for distress  and inconvenience  rather than £100.
VWFS didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision I appreciate  Mrs P has very strong feelings about this 
matter. However I remain of the view, for the reasons given, that £100 represents a fair and 
reasonable sum for VWFS to have to pay Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience  she has 
been caused. 
I would also add that our awards for non-financial loss are designed to compensate the 
consumer for the avoidable distress and inconvenience they have been caused and not to 
penalise or fine the business, or to reflect how much or how little time our service had to 
commit to investigating  the complaint.
Ref: DRN43723914my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
waive the excess mileage charge of £519.54, which  it has agreed to do
waive the refurbishment charge of £283.68,  which it has agreed to do
waive any charges  or interest that may have accrued on the above two sums
pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter  has caused her
ensure any adverse  information that might have been recorded with credit reference 
agencies in respect of the £519.54  and £283.68 charges is removed
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372391