K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because  Ive been  given a copy  of the credit card application  which was 
completed at the time and this includes a section  about PPI, detailed  in an area titled 
Optional Features . In this section there  is a box to tick if PPI is required and I can see that 
this box has been  ticked. If Mr H didnt want to take out the PPI he could have left the box 
blank. Mr H has signed the form which suggests  he agreed with everything that had been 
entered.
Mr H has said he suffers from dyslexia but he was too embarrassed to mention it when he 
was reading the form. He says he just believed what the bank manager said when the 
credit card terms  and conditions were outlined  to him. I cant  know for certain what was 
said during this meeting but if Mr H had been  unsure about anything he could have asked  
for further  clarification. Or he could  have thought about matters and returned at another 
time to progress his application. 
I accept that Mr Hs dyslexia couldve made  things more difficult for him, and I sympathise 
with his situation. But from the evidence  I have, I dont think I can fairly  say that its most 
likely Lloyds  added the policy  to Mr Hs account without his knowledge or consent, which is 
what I must  be able to do before I can uphold his complaint  on this point. I simply dont have 
enough evidence  that this is what happened. So when taking everything into account  I think  
its more likely Lloyds made it clear that the policy was optional and Mr H agreed to take it 
out, knowing he could  refuse it if he didnt want it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Lloyds no longer 
have a copy of the terms and conditions which would  have  been  issued at the time of the 
sale, which is understandable as it was such a long time ago. But it has provided a policy 
which was issued just one month  after the sale. On a balance  of probabilities I think its likely 
that these terms would have been  broadly  the same as those issued to Mr H following the 
sale of PPI. And based on those terms, Mr H appears to have  been  eligible for the cover and 
it seems that he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI policy.
Mr H has told us that he was self-employed at the time of the sale and so he doesnt  think  
he should have  been sold this insurance policy. But having checked the terms and 
conditions I can see that cover is provided  for self-employed people and it doesnt appear 
that it would have been  any more difficult for him to claim than if he had been employed on a 
permanent contract. So this doesnt  make a difference to my outcome.
Ref: DRN45814902And he seems to have had a need for the cover.  As Mr H was self-employed  he has told us 
he wouldnt  receive any sick pay if he was too ill to work and he didnt have  any savings or 
other means  with which to make his repayments  if he wasnt working.  But this policy would 
have paid 10% of his monthly  balance for up to 12 months if he wasnt  working through 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think this policy could have provided a useful 
benefit to him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he ticked the box on the application  form to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went 
wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the
PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive also thought about what  Mr H has said about not claiming on the policy  when he could 
have done as he didnt understand he was covered. This complaint relates purely to the 
sale of the policy and, as Ive mentioned previously, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.  So 
this doesnt change my decision. But if Mr H believes he may have been able to make  a 
claim under the policy then he should contact the insurer to discuss if they will accept  a 
back-dated claim.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4581490