K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about Southern Rock Insurance Company. She isnt happy  about the 
way it dealt with a claim under her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs F was involved in an accident in 2016  and she made a claim under her car insurance 
policy. Initially it was believed that the other driver was at fault for the accident and she 
advanced a non-fault claim with a separate claims  management  company (CMC). But when  
it became clear that the other side disputed liability the CMC stopped  looking into things for 
her. The CMC had indicated that her car maybe an economic write off. 
Mrs F didnt  want  to claim for the damage  to her car as liability  was disputed. When  the claim 
was eventually settled,  liability was split 50/50, Mrs F asked to be paid out for the damage 
she sustained to her car. But as Mrs F went onto be involved in another accident, which the 
insurer paid the full market value of her car, it didnt pay the 2016 claim. This was because 
there wasnt any evidence  that Mrs F had got her car repaired in 2016. And as she got paid 
the full market value, without  any deduction  for previous damage for the second claim, it 
would have been unfair to have paid her twice.
As Mrs F wasnt  happy  about  this and that the claim was settled against her, including 
personal injury costs, she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt  uphold  her complaint. He was satisfied 
that Southern  Rock  had settled liability fairly. And as there wasnt sufficient  evidence  that the 
car was repaired between the two accidents  he didnt think  that it had acted unreasonably.
As Mrs F didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs F but Id like to 
explain why.
This case is complicated by the fact that the claim was initially advanced by a CMC as it was 
believed fault wasnt in dispute.  I need  to make it clear  that this is a separate company  from 
Southern Rock and that they have no responsibility for their actions.
Once it became  clear  that liability wasnt accepted a claim was advanced by the third party 
against Mrs F through Southern Rock.  But Mrs F maintained that she wasnt at fault and 
didnt want to proceed with a claim for the damage to her car, and pay her excess, until the 
other side accepted  responsibility for the accident.
But the other side didnt accept responsibility  and it was eventually decided  that liability 
would be split 50/50. I know Mrs F doesnt agree  that she was at fault for the accident in any 
way. But the policy allows Southern  Rock  to take over the settlement of the claim. Going to 
court is time consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain so insurers have to 
use their judgement in deciding whether  to proceed to court or not. However,  we expect 
insurers to exercise this judgement fairly,  making  a reasonable assessment of the 
circumstances surrounding  the accident.
Ref: DRN46499532With this in mind, Ive looked  at how Southern Rock handled the claim, taking into 
consideration all of the available  evidence in deciding things. I am mindful that there isnt any 
independent evidence to support Mrs F and I can see that Southern  Rock  did try to defend 
her. It looked to gain as much evidence  as it could; appointed an investigator to look into the 
circumstances surrounding  the accident  and to gain a witness  statement; tried to get a police  
report; and looked to gain legal advice. As such, I dont think  I can say it has acted  
unreasonably.
I know Mrs F questions  the legitimateness of the third partys personal  injury claim. But as 
they have provided  medical evidence in support of their claim I dont think  that Southern 
Rock has acted unreasonably in settling  these. I know  Mrs F would like the doctors  evidence  
scrutinised further  but I dont think that is necessary,  especially as they clearly received 
physio for their injuries. So I think Southern  Rock  has acted fairly in trusting the medical  
opinion.
Turning to payment  for the damage  Mrs Fs car sustained from the accident in 2016. It is a 
real shame that Mrs F didnt get the car repaired  at the time of the accident through her 
insurer rather than wait until liability was settled. As she didnt and chose to keep the car and 
have the repairs  done herself then the matter became complicated. 
It appears from the notes  that Mrs F told Southern Rock that she didnt get the car repaired 
in 2016. But I can see that while the complaint  was awaiting  a final decision that she has 
said she did get the car repaired  at a later date,  but for free through  a family  member. 
Either way, I dont think Southern Rock has done anything wrong in not paying  out any repair  
costs in relation  to the 2016 claim.  I say this as Mrs F hasnt incurred any costs  from that 
time. There wasnt a reduction made for any pre-existing damage when the later claim was 
paid in 2018 so I cant say Southern Rock has done  anything wrong. If a further payment 
was paid now then Mrs F would be paying twice  for the car. Whereas, if she had paid for 
repairs, or there had been a deduction  for the damage from the earlier  accident, then I would 
expect Southern Rock to pay for these.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4649953