K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) doesnt  allow  him to make his 
credit card payments using another credit card. 
Mr M explained that he wanted  to pay his credit card bill in the same way as he pays his 
other bills, i.e. using his credit card. He said other lenders allow him to do this. He also said 
using his credit card to pay his credit card bill was his only option,  but that he wasnt  in 
financial difficulty. He doesnt think he should  have to justify his reasons to Halifax  and thinks  
its trying  to profit from him by refusing a credit card payment as it wants  to charge him 
interest. Mr M told us hed stopped paying his credit card bill as Halifax  refused to take 
payment by credit card. 
Our investigator considered this. He didnt think Halifax  had done anything wrong. He said 
the terms and conditions didnt state  that payments could be made by credit card. But Mr M 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I wont  be upholding his complaint. 
Ill explain  why. But before I do, its important  to note that our service isnt here to punish 
businesses. Nor is it here to regulate a businesss  internal  processes or commercial 
judgments. So its not for me to say that Halifax has to accept payments by certain methods. 
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions, I can see that there are a variety of ways  to pay, 
but it doesnt state that payments will be accepted by credit card. Mr M hasnt explained to 
us why he needed to make  payment  by credit card, other than to say that he was out of the 
country. It appears that Halifax made  him aware of other ways he could pay, such  as by a 
balance transfer,  although he wouldve needed  to arrange this himself  through  his other 
provider. I dont know why Mr M couldnt  use an alternative method to pay his credit card bill, 
but I dont think  its Halifaxs responsibility to make  sure he could pay using one of the 
available options.  
Mr M said hes now had to withdraw cash from his credit card to make the payment, leading 
to charges and interest. But I dont think Halifax can reasonably be held responsible for 
these. Im satisfied there were a number of alternative ways  that Mr M could arrange to 
make payment. I dont  think Halifax has been obstructive here, nor do I think it was simply 
trying to charge  him interest.
Mr M told us he stopped making payments to his credit card as Halifax was refusing to take 
his payment. He mentioned that this could affect his credit file. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that Halifax refused his payment, but simply  that it doesnt  accept payment by credit 
card. It still expects payments to be made, and Mr M is required to make these. So its likely 
that refusing to pay his credit card bill will lead to adverse entries on his credit file.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Halifax has acted unfairly, unreasonably or unlawfully 
in this case.
Ref: DRN40547912my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4054791