K821x#15complaint
E is a partnership. Represented by their broker, Z, they say AXA Insurance UK plc 
incorrectly declined a claim  they made on their farm and estate insurance  policy.
background
Es business comprises a farm,  property  interests and agricultural contracting.  In August 
2017 they attended a customers  farm to provide a grain drying service. A few weeks later 
the farmer  reported  that two loads  of the grain had been rejected by one of his clients. He 
alleged the grain had been contaminated with kerosene and that E were  responsible.
After investigating,  E found that a nut on their drying machine had worked loose affecting the 
air/fuel mix. There was an excess of fuel which wasnt burnt off and this led to contamination 
of the grain. E made a claim under the public  liability  section of their farm and estate 
insurance policy. They also thought the product  liability section could respond to the claim.
AXA declined Es claim relying on an exclusion in the public liability cover  and asserting the 
product liability section didnt apply. Z, on behalf of E, raised a number of concerns about 
this. Fundamentally,  the broker thinks AXA is wrong to have  declined  the claim.
I issued my provisional decision last month. Neither party  has provided any additional  
arguments or evidence.  And having thought about  everything again Ive found no reason to 
depart from my initial  conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Es complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My starting point is Es policy and the applicable terms and conditions.  I can see the 
insurance was paid up and there was cover for the peril of accidental damage. The terms of 
the policy which have  been the focus  of debate are contained  in the section about public and 
product liability.
As AXA is relying on an exclusion then I need  to think about whether the policy  made this 
clear. That is both in terms of its prominence and how it was explained.  And I have to 
consider if the term is fair, and has been  applied fairly.
Policy summaries and schedules are important  in drawing attention to significant  or unusual 
terms. The schedule also identifies endorsements.  These are extra  items added  to a policy 
for situations where things arent  covered  in the main wording, but the insurer wants  to add 
things to reflect a policyholders particular  needs and circumstances.
Looking at Es schedule for public liability, I can see this set limits on AXAs liability  for the 
perils it was taking on. It identified an exclusion  of care custody and control. But this wasnt 
elaborated on and the policy definitions dont clarify what  this meant.
There was a specific endorsement added to the policy schedule to allow for agriculture 
contracting, excluding  spraying. So this reflected an understanding  that an important 
element of Es business  was providing  services to others.
Ref: DRN46629352The policy document itself is 116 pages in length  and necessarily  detailed.  Under the section 
on public  liability it says:
We will pay youall sums that you shall become legally liable to pay as damages and costs  
and expenses of claimants in respect  of accidental (2) physical loss, destruction  or 
damage to tangible property
But later in the same section, under  the exclusions it says:
We will not provide an indemnity [for] (2). Property under your control in respect of loss, 
destruction of or damage to a) property  belonging to you b) property which  is leased, let, 
rented, hired, lent to or in your custody or control
AXAs final position  was that in order for the drying service to be provided the grain had to be 
in the custody and control  of E. So the claim was excluded. But I dont think  this is clear  cut. 
As the policy is silent on the precise meaning of the words  AXA is relying on, its helpful to 
recall the definitions set out by the investigator using the Oxford  English Dictionary:
Custody - the protective  care or guardianship of someone or something.
Control - the power to influence or direct peoples behaviours or the course of events.
I dont pretend  these  dictionary definitions  provide  us with an unequivocal answer to whether 
the customers grain was in the custody or control of E. But I do think  they raise debate and 
throw into question some of AXAs argument.
At this point its useful  to reflect  on the circumstances  surrounding Es drying operation and 
the event being claimed  for. There wasnt a written contract between  E and the client  farmer. 
The grain didnt  pass into Es ownership.  The grain wasnt  being  looked after by E. They 
attended the clients farm to provide their drying  service. It was working on the third partys  
grain. It never  had control of the grain in the sense it could do with it what  it wished. It was 
acting at the behest of its customer at all times.  It wasnt  in charge of the grain.
I note there  was some debate between AXA and its underwriter  during consideration of the 
claim about whether  the policy should respond positively. Specifically concerning  the matter  
of what was meant by custody and control, where  a review of potentially germane case  law 
from Canada was highlighted  as at odds with its final position  in respect of Es claim. 
Ive read the judgement issued by the Supreme Court of Canada:  Indemnity Insurance 
Company of North America v Excel Cleaning Service  (1954). Although common  law, clearly 
its not binding.  But its certainly instructive and aspects of the case are analogous with the 
circumstances here.
Its also of note AXAs legal advisers thought it would be on difficult  ground if it were  to 
repudiate the claim relying on the custody  and control exclusion. This was an opinion  
endorsed by another of AXAs legal  panel.
The policy exclusion  was reasonably prominent   it was set out in the relevant schedule.  But 
on balance, I find the meaning of care,  custody  or control was insufficiently  clear. There  were 
no policy definitions. Indeed, there  has been  significant debate  between  AXA and its agents  
about this matter, so its difficult to conclude the matter was clear cut.
Ref: DRN46629353It mayve been the underwriters intention to exclude the risk which  has befallen E, but 
theres ambiguity  in the policy terms. And its long been a fundamental principle  of 
contractual interpretation  contra  proferentem to give the benefit of the doubt to the party 
who didnt draft the contract, in this case the policyholder. 
Ive also thought more broadly about whats  happened in this case. Es business was fully 
disclosed to Z, their broker, when it tested the market for suitable insurance  products. E told 
us:
We purchased the policy in good  faith disclosing we are contract grain dryers  and 
specifically requested cover for damage to [third party] grain  whilst  being worked upon for 
legal liabilities under  the policy.
Z maintains  that when it approached AXA it made  the insurer  aware of Es particular 
requirements. Its also asserted its own understanding and argument throughout that the 
policy should respond to the claim made.  If theres  a misunderstanding about the scope of 
the cover, its clearly  one shared by Es broker.
On the other hand, when AXAs agent investigated  the circumstances of the claim and 
validated certain  aspects of if, it reported  the following:
we note that the custody and control exclusion on the public liability policy  has not been 
deleted, which we would have expected for a grain drying agricultural contractor
Along with other commentary on file, this indicates  that cover for working  on third-party grain  
wouldve been available.  It also suggests  this wouldnt have been an unusual requirement. 
And I dont  think theres any doubt  thats  what E wanted included  in their cover. Z and AXA 
were fully aware of their business  activities.
Given what was known  about Es business, I think the interpretation of the exclusion AXA 
wanted to rely on wouldve had the effect  of nullifying a significant element of the purpose for 
which the insurance was sold.  This suggests something significant went wrong between the 
broker and then insurer.
A dispute has emerged between AXA and Z about who is responsible  for whats  happened.  
Z asserts  that it was 100% clear  and transparent in [its] presentation of the risk and cover  
expected. The underwriter says [Z] never  made it clear that cover was required for care, 
custody or control  of the third partys grain and our policy has a specific exclusion that they 
are aware of. 
While this dispute about how the policy was sold and how Es requirements  were 
communicated may continue between AXA and Z, I dont  think it would be fair to ask E to 
await the outcome.
I note Z argued that if Es claim failed  under the public liability  cover then the provisions of 
the product liability section should  apply. Because of the findings Ive already made,  I dont 
need to consider this aspect of the complaint it becomes academic to the outcome.
Ref: DRN46629354putting things rights
I require AXA to consider Es claim under the public liability section of their insurance, in light 
of my findings and subject  to other  terms of the policy. It should add interest to any sum due 
at 8% simple per year (less any tax lawfully deductible) from the date E paid for the 
damaged grain  until the date settlement is made.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Es complaint. AXA Insurance UK plc must 
now put matters right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4662935