K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how the Society of Lloyds  (SoL)  dealt  with his travel insurance  claim.
background
Whilst abroad on an extended trip, Mr S discovered a lump on his arm. He had the lump 
biopsied and unfortunately  he was diagnosed  with a type of cancer. He contacted his travel  
insurance company  to see if he could have treatment abroad;  as he had family in the country 
he was currently staying  in. His insurer declined his claim as Mr S had previously suffered 
from another type of cancer.
Mr S returned home with his daughter and had private treatment.  However he raised  a 
complaint with his travel  insurer  as he explained  the two types of cancer  were  unrelated.  
Mr S got legal representation  and after further investigation SoL admitted it had made a 
mistake and that Mr Ss claim  shouldve been  covered.  At this time it agreed to make a 
payment towards  his flight home,  his hire car costs  and the medical tests he needed abroad.
Mr S asked it to cover  what it had agreed plus the full cost of his flights,  his daughters  
flights, his private  medical treatment in the UK, his solicitors fees and to make  an award for 
compensation. It agreed to cover Mr Ss flights home (minus what it considered  it wouldve 
cost him to return home as planned), his hire car costs, medical tests, to waive  his excess,  
refund the unused  part of his insurance  and as a goodwill  gesture  pay him £1,200 towards 
his daughters flights.
Mr S declined this offer and brought his complaint to our service. At this time he also asked 
for his unused accommodation costs  to be considered. Our investigator partially upheld his 
complaint but neither party was satisfied  with her recommendations.  So the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. I set out that I fully 
appreciated SoL shouldve accepted Mr Ss claim initially. But that I wouldnt be expecting 
SoL to cover  costs  up to the value of what it may have had to pay out (had the claim been 
honoured straight away). I was looking at what did happen when  the claim wasnt paid, if any 
of those things  were covered within the terms of the policy  and the level of compensation 
that was due as a result of the initial incorrect decline.
SoL set out that it would have always looked to repatriate Mr S, as whilst his situation  was 
urgent, he wasnt in need of emergency  surgery. Reviewing the information SoL has 
provided, the terms of Mr Ss cover and considering my knowledge of surgical costs in the 
USA, I accepted that this action wouldve been  taken rather than him having the treatment in 
the USA.
Mr Ss flights
The principle  of insurance is to cover  additional  costs that are incurred as the result of 
something going wrong. So as Mr S was always planning to return to the UK  he wouldve 
always had to pay out some cost for this. On that basis, I considered  the refund should  be 
the amount Mr S did pay minus what he wouldve paid. Unfortunately  we didnt know exactly  
what these costs wouldve  been.
Ref: DRN49660552SoL proposed to reduce  Mr Ss return flight cost by what hed already been refunded, what 
he paid for his cruise  out and the cost of a flight  from where he was staying to the port. I 
reviewed this offer and based on the information  available thought it was fair.
Mr S booked his cruise out on an offer, so I considered he wouldve looked for an offer on 
his way home. But also that he wouldve wanted a higher standard of room  than the basic 
level based on his previous travel. Mr Ss daughter explained  that they intended to drive from 
their villa to the port when it was time to get the cruise back to the UK, but hadnt  provided 
any estimated costing for the travel  element  of this. Considering the distance they were 
travelling I thought it was likely to cost them  at least the same amount as SoL has deducted 
for the flight. On that basis  of the information  I held, I considered the offer fair.
Mr Ss daughters flights
Mr S has explained to us that he needed his daughters assistance to travel; and for her to 
care for him after the surgery. He provided a letter from his surgeon  which  confirmed he 
needed support  for up to two weeks after the surgery.  Due to this he asked for his daughters  
return flights to be covered.
I reviewed the evidence on file, but there  wasnt anything to suggest Mr S needed  his 
daughters support in order to travel home. There seem to have been discussions about  
whether this might be the case, but there isnt anything which says her presence was 
medically necessary.
I appreciated Mr S was using a wheelchair,  so needed assistance with his luggage. But 
I was aware this was the case before his diagnosis. And the airport wouldve been able to 
provide mobility assistance  to him. His travel insurance policy  purely provides cover for the 
essential costs  of getting him back to the UK to receive medical help. It doesnt cover costs  
for a companion or any costs associated with his post-operative care. I understood why 
Mr Ss daughter travelled with him and recognise the additional comfort having her there  
wouldve provided. But as there  wasnt any evidence she was medically needed for Mr S to 
be able to travel back, I didnt award  these costs.
However as a goodwill gesture SoL offered £1,200 towards Mr Ss daughters flights, which  I 
covered as part of the compensation due.
accommodation costs
SoL didnt  consider Mr S had done  enough  to substantiate his claim for accommodation 
costs. It suggested that he may have paid his daughter this money  for something other  than 
for the accommodation.  Its questioned  why he would  rent the large villa alone and has 
reiterated that Mr S didnt  previously try and claim for the accommodation costs despite  
having legal  representation.
Mr S provided us with evidence to show he transferred $3,000  to his daughter in $1,000 
instalments over a period  of three  months.  And his daughter provided  the calendar from the 
website she used to rent out her property,  showing it was reserved  for Mr S during  this time 
period. Mr Ss daughter said that they didnt previously attempt to recover  this cost as they 
didnt think he could  provide adequate receipts for this.
Ref: DRN49660553I carefully considered  the evidence Mr S provided,  but there wasnt  anything  which  showed  
the money was for the accommodation. And while  I appreciated his daughter provided her 
calendar to show the villa was booked for Mr S, this didnt show he paid her for it. Based  on 
the information we held,  I didnt think Mr S had done  enough  to substantiate a claim for 
financial losses from unused accommodation.
private medical costs
I understood why Mr S opted for private  treatment  when he returned home. But I set out that 
his travel insurance didnt  cover this cost.
the solicitors fees
I appreciated the very difficult situation  Mr S was in considering his personal situation,  
especially considering  his health.  But ultimately  it was his choice to have  professional 
representation, so I didnt ask SoL to cover  these costs.
compensation
In acknowledgement  of the inconvenience  and distress  caused  to Mr S, SoL offered to pay 
him £1,200   which could be used towards  his daughters flights,  refund  his excess (£150) 
and refund the unused part of his travel  insurance (£332.68). Our investigator awarded Mr S 
£500, but said that the excess and unused insurance amounts could be deducted from this 
figure. SoL pointed out in its response to her assessment that these two amounts total over 
£480, so it considered it had already made  an award to the level she was suggesting.
Considering that SoL did incorrectly decline Mr Ss claim and it took some time for this to be 
rectified, I thought he suffered substantial distress  and inconvenience due to SoL actions. 
But I did consider  the £1,200 goodwill gesture part of the compensation Mr S is receiving. He 
didnt agree that the refunds hes receiving should be deducted  from his compensation 
award. However under the policy  terms he isnt entitled to either of these amounts. The 
premium he paid for his travel insurance may be for the whole trip, but as hes claimed on 
the policy, he wouldnt be eligible to have  part of the premium refunded.  So this refund is 
compensation. And in the same respect, as hes claiming he is (technically) required to pay 
the policy excess. So again, this refund  is compensation  as if things had gone as they 
should have Mr S wouldnt be receiving these amounts  back. So I was satisfied they did form 
part of his compensation award.
On that basis, SoL was offering him nearly  £1,700.  Considering whats  happened  I thought  
this offer was fair.
provisional conclusion
I said I wasnt intending for SoL to increase the offers  it was making.  However I said it would 
need to re-calculate  the claim settlement offered to update the 8% simple interest awarded 
on this figure.
responses
SoL responded saying it only wished to comment that it shouldnt pay 8% interest on the 
compensation element of the offer.
Ref: DRN49660554Mr Ss daughter responded on his behalf.  I would like to reassure her that while  I have 
summarised the key issues  below,  I have read her response in full and considered all the 
points raised. In summary she said:
-His surgery was considered an urgent medical  necessity and the doctors said it 
shouldnt be delayed
-They feel that the insurers negligence and breach of contract led to the sequence  of 
events that occurred
-She finds it highly  unlikely the insurer wouldve required  him to travel alone  and said 
that she (as his carer) was medically necessary
-Her father misread the policy so this is why he didnt initially apply for 
accommodation costs.  And the money  he paid her was for his accommodation
-Her father was no longer seeking reimbursement of the private medical costs
-Mr S felt like seeking legal help was his only option
-Her father opted for the second  lowest fare available when he booked  the cruise  and 
wouldve returned on the most  reasonably  priced (cruise) accommodation
-She disagreed  with the compensation figure and how it was calculated
-That the trip they had planned to return  to the port wouldnt have cost her father 
anything
Following her response, I sent SoL the details  she provided of the trip they had planned to 
take in order to get back to the port. On receipt of this SoL agreed  not to reduce the offer by 
the cost of a flight, as it accepted her testimony  that this part of the trip wouldnt have  cost 
Mr S anything.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision and Mr Ss daughter has said,  Mr S needed urgent 
surgery, not emergency surgery. There is a distinction between  the two and as his treatment 
was urgent, this meant  even  if the insurer had accepted the claim when it should have  
Mr S wouldve  then been flown home as quickly as possible. I appreciate  Mr S and his 
daughter are not medical professionals, however I consider the fact that Mr S wasnt  taken 
straight into surgery on diagnosis wouldve made  it clear to them that while the surgery 
needed to happen as soon as possible, it wasnt a medical emergency.
Mr Ss daughter has said that if the claim had been correctly assessed  then all other  actions 
taken by them both would  have been  unnecessary.  But Im afraid  I cant agree with this.
Mr Ss daughter described  her role as his carer and the medical needs Mr S had in detail in 
her response. Ultimately, these suggest  that she wouldve always needed to travel  
everywhere with him. However  he bought single person  travel  insurance for this trip. The 
relevant policy  term under  the Medical & Repatriation Expenses section states that costs  
will be covered for one close relative  required on medical advice to stay or travel with the 
insured as a direct  result of the onset of illness.  From what  shes  told us, the majority of 
the care Mr S needed  didnt relate  to the cancer, it was due to existing medical  conditions.  
And while I have considered her points in relation to his mental health, the medical evidence 
I have doesnt  advise Mr Ss daughter to travel  with him or say that she is medically 
necessary due to the cancer. So reviewing  the terms, I still dont agree her costs  are covered 
under the policy.
Ref: DRN49660555In relation to her other  comments, at no point have  I said Mr Ss daughter  shouldnt  have  
travelled with him, I fully appreciate why she did. But what  I am saying is that the costs of her 
travel are not covered by the policy. I appreciate Mr S getting  unwell has caused both him 
and his daughter  considerable distress  and shes had to make additional trips to the UK at a 
busy time of the year for her. But these trips were down to Mr S unfortunately being 
diagnosed with cancer and the care he needed,  not the actions of SoL.
Ive considered the further testimony Mr Ss daughter has provided in relation to the 
accommodation costs.  But as I set out in my provisional decision, I have to consider whether 
SoL was unfair to decline the claim based on the evidence provided. Its not my role to 
assess the accommodation claim for it. Mr Ss daughter hasnt  provided  any further material  
evidence which shows Mr S paid her money for the accommodation. So whilst  I have  read 
her additional  testimony,  it doesnt persuade me to change  my outcome  on this point.
I appreciate Mr Ss feeling that he had no other choice but to seek  legal  action, but I already 
addressed this point  in my provisional  decision and dont consider anything  further  has been 
added to change  my decision.
In relation to Mr S booking the most reasonably priced accommodation to return  to the UK, I 
consider SoL has acknowledged this  in that its taken into account the offer Mr S used to 
book his outbound cruise.  I dont think SoL has acted unfairly in not accepting the adverts 
Mr S provided as evidence of what he wouldve  paid. Unfortunately it isnt possible to know  
what the actual  cost of Mr Ss return trip wouldve been. And whilst  I accept  Mr S wouldve 
looked for the most  reasonably priced  accommodation, that doesnt mean he wouldve got a 
cheaper fare than his outbound cruise. So I still dont consider SoL has done  anything wrong 
by using his outbound cost for its return flight claim payment.
what SoL needs to do to put things right
SoL has confirmed it has paid Mr S £319.18 to date, which comprised of £290.60 in medical 
costs, £109.23  for his return flight and £69.35 for car hire.
SoL needs to now pay Mr S:
the waiver of his policy excess (£150)
£1,200 in compensation, which he can use towards his daughters flights
£332.68 as a pro-rata refund of his premium
It should also re-calculate his payment  for his return flight and pay this figure  to him. This 
should be worked out in the following way:
1.Deduct the cost of his outbound cruise  (representing his estimated return  cruise cost 
($1,480.84)) from his actual return flight cost ($2,257)
2.Convert the figure from step 1 to GBP (based on the exchange rate on the day Mr S 
booked his return flight)
3.Deduct £109.23  (the flight  refund  already paid)  from the figure from step 2
4.Calculate 8% simple  interest per annum  on the figure from step 3, from the date the first 
claim payment was made until the date the figure  from step 3 is paid.
Ref: DRN49660556my final decision
Society of Lloyds has offered to pay Mr S the amounts Ive outlined  above. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair compensation  in the circumstances. My decision is that Society of 
Lloyds should  pay the outstanding amounts within 28 days of receiving  notice of Mr Ss 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr S should  note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and Society of Lloyds as to whether the above 
offer still remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been  communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4966055