K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the way esure Insurance  Limited dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr A made a claim to his insurer, esure  in January  2018 following an incident. esure settled 
Mr As claim by paying him a cash-in  lieu (CIL) settlement in March 2019. 
Mr A was unhappy that esures approved repairer  network didnt include dealership garages 
and so if he used  a preferred garage  hed have to pay an additional excess. Mr A didnt think 
it was fair that by using a non approved repairer, he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. Mr A 
said esure caused undue delay by instructing an independent  assessor (IA). He was 
unhappy that esure deducted VAT from the CIL payment  it made under this and a previous 
claim from December  2018. 
esure didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. It said it had dealt with Mr As January 2019  claim in 
line with the policy terms. Its engineer instructed  an IA as he disputed  all of the repairs  
recommended by Mr As preferred dealership garage. esure said this was a reasonable 
process to follow  to progress the claim.  It waived  the additional excess Mr A would  have to 
pay if Mr A used  his preferred garage for the repairs. 
esure said its decision to deduct VAT was correct. If Mr A provided a VAT registered  invoice 
on completion of the repairs,  it would refund the VAT to him or pay the garage directly.  
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator thought esure  had acted reasonably. 
Mr A didnt agree. So he case  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy  with esure says that in the event of a claim for repairs, it will use a 
recommended repairer and under  this arrangement  the offer of a courtesy car is available.  
The repairers that insurers use can change and doesnt always include dealership  garages. I 
dont think esure did anything wrong because it didnt list Mr As preferred garage under its 
recommended repairers. And Mr A was still able to use his preferred garage.  Under the 
terms of the policy, he would have had to pay an additional excess. This also isnt an 
unusual term. However,  in this case esure waived the additional excess.  And on checking  
with esure,  it says its engineer didnt appear to deduct the standard  excess  of £500 from the 
settlement it paid Mr A. Even if it had, I think Mr A was treated fairly here. 
esures engineer  didnt  agree with all of the repair costs listed on the report provided by 
Mr As preferred garage.  Ive seen the email  thread  between the two parties. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  esure  instructed an IA. I know Mr A feels  this was 
unnecessary and there were other ways to resolve  this at a lower cost and sooner. But I 
cant criticise esure for bringing in the expertise  of an independent  assessor  when two 
qualified engineers couldnt  agree. 
Ref: DRN47421272On 19 February 2019 the IA approved  the repair costs provided by Mr A. Mr A was advised 
on 22 February 2019. esure told Mr A it was for him to arrange a date for repairs  at his 
preferred garage. Mr A complained to esure.
Mr A had requested  settlement by way of a CIL payment on 13 February 2019. But the 
engineer said as Mr As car was repairable there was no reason to do so. After  Mr A 
complained, esure agreed to settle  Mr As claim by way of a CIL payment on 11 March  2019. 
I know Mr A believes esure caused  undue  delay here. But esure is entitled to settle the claim 
as it sees fit.
Mr A has provided a copy of a decision from our website from five years ago. This service  
upheld a complaint about  a businesss decision to withhold VAT from a CIL payment. 
We look at each case on its merits. Im satisfied that esure followed our approach. esure 
said that when  the repairs have been  completed and the VAT has been paid, it would issue 
a payment for this. 
As the CIL payment  esure paid is for the full amount  of the repairs  estimate provided by 
Mr As garage minus VAT, I think esure has dealt with Mr As claim in a fair and reasonable 
way. 
esure paid Mr A £50 compensation  as it accepted  it caused  a delay in dealing  with his 
complaint. I think this was reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4742127