K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) placed  a block  on his credit  card.  
And that he was unable  to make transactions using the card in a particular  store. He would 
like the problems to be resolved. And compensation for the distress  and inconvenience.
background
Mr S says that he tried to use his Barclays credit card to make a transaction  at a particular 
store in November 2018. But his transaction was declined.
He says he contacted Barclays by phone  but ,due to a mismatch with voice  recognition,  
Barclays put a block  on his card due to a concern of possible  fraud. He says although this 
took some  time to sort out  Barclays couldnt  get hold of him by phone  so had to write to 
him - that issue has been resolved.
But he says he still had transactions  declined  at one particular store.  Barclays  told him it 
couldnt see any record of declined transactions. It suggested he contacted the merchant 
concerned.
Mr S did this and says it told him that Barclays had failed to settle a transaction. And his card 
had been reported as lost. It referred to a particular transaction for £99.40 that Mr S says he 
didnt recognise.  Also the merchant Mr S it was an online transaction.   But Mr S says he 
doesnt do online transactions.  Mr S says he was concerned about potential  fraud.  But says 
although he provided this information to Barclays it said Mr S had to pursue this with the 
merchant himself.
Mr S says he feels Barclays  should take responsibility as it is its card that is being  declined. 
He feels he is being sent from the bank to the merchant and vice versa. And is being 
expected to resolve this himself. He says Barclays didnt  even  offer him a new card when the 
issue of potential fraud arose.
Mr S says this has caused  him a lot of distress and inconvenience.
Barclays said it had put a block on Mr Ss account whilst it attempted  to contact him to 
ensure that his card had not been  compromised. It said it did this for his protection.  It tried to 
contact Mr S by phone but was unable to do so; it then sent him a letter. Unfortunately it took 
some time for Mr S to receive the letter. In acknowledgement of the inconvenience. And as it 
felt its service had been less than satisfactory it credited Mr Ss account with £350  
compensation.
With regard to the other part of Mr Ss complaint it said it had no evidence  of declined  
transactions in the store in question and said Mr S should raise  this with the merchant 
involved. It did pay Mr S £25 for the inconvenience for one declined  payment in November 
2018.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt Barclays had acknowledged the 
inconvenience Mr S had suffered. And had replaced Mr Ss his credit card to see if that 
resolved the problem of failed transactions in a particular store.
Ref: DRN42160412Mr S didnt accept this view. He said Barclays should have taken action sooner as he 
believes there is a possibility his card had been cloned.  And he reiterated  how he had been 
inconvenienced.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said she had 
checked with Barclays.  The  bank assured her it wasnt  possible that Mr Ss card had been  
cloned with the chip in the card. She felt as Mr S was able to use his card in other shops the 
issue was more with a particular store than with the card. She felt Barclays had done  nothing 
wrong. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. It must  be very frustrating that he 
hasnt been able to get a clear answer  as to why some transactions were  declined.
I understand that after our investigators view Mr Ss main issue  was the fact he couldnt 
make some transactions in a particular store rather than the fact Barclays  had blocked his 
card. However I think its appropriate to cover both issues  in my view since  I think  there is 
some overlap.
Barclays has explained as part of its fraud  detection system it put a block  on Mr Ss card as 
its voice recognition  system  flagged  up a potential issue with a call Mr S made. I do 
understand that would  have been really  frustrating for Mr S. Particularly as Barclays  tried to 
call Mr S to resolve the matter but wasnt able to contact  him. So it sent a letter instead 
which caused some  delay to Mr S being  able to contact  the bank to get the block  removed.
Frustrating as that was these procedures are there to protect consumers  and the bank. So 
as Barclays thought there was a problem I think it acted correctly,  and in Mr Ss best 
interests, in blocking his account.
Mr S says he thinks that Barclays should  have offered him a replacement  card sooner than it 
did, particularly as the information given  to him by the store where his transactions were  
declined, said his card had been used  for a transaction he didnt recognise. And had been 
reported as lost. Both of which understandably gave Mr S cause for concern.
Barclays has explained that it would have sent a new card if Mr S had requested one or if his 
card had been reported lost or stolen.  Barclays itself didnt have any record of Mr Ss card as 
being lost. And it seems  from a further conversation  Mr S had with the merchant who told 
him his card had been reported  as lost that referred  to another  card not to Mr Ss. We know 
this since Mr S told us the information  on the card number the merchant shared with him 
didnt match his card number.
I think however that when  Mr S first gave  Barclays information from the merchant about the 
£99.40 transaction he didnt recognise  that it might have been prudent, if only for Mr Ss 
peace of mind, if Barclays had at that point replaced  his card.  I understand Mr S does now 
have a new card.
Ref: DRN42160413In terms of Barclays response in handling  the block on Mr Ss credit  card it did credit  Mr Ss 
account with £350 for the inconvenience which I think is sufficient and appropriate 
compensation for the inconvenience. And for what Barclays felt was a poor level of service.
The other issue Mr S had was that transactions on his credit card were declined in a 
particular store. Mr S has sent us transactions slips to show three attempts to make  a 
payment for £25 on 3 November 2018 which were all declined.  As the block  Barclays  put on 
Mr Ss account was from 2 November  2018 until 8 November 2018 I think  that would explain 
why these transactions were declined. Ive noted that Barclays did credit Mr Ss account with   
£25 compensation  for this on 12 November 2018.  
However that doesnt explain other declined transactions at the same  store.  
Mr S has been in touch  with the merchant where  his transactions  were  declined. And I am 
aware that Mr S has put in a separate complaint  to us about  that merchant. So I dont think 
its appropriate to go into that merchants actions  in more detail here for that reason. This 
complaint is about  Barclays. So I can only consider here if Barclays  has done  anything 
wrong. And if so, the impact on Mr S.
I do appreciate Mr Ss frustration here as we still dont know  why some transactions failed. 
We have gone  back to Barclays to ask why its systems dont show the transactions  Mr S 
attempted but which failed. It has explained that it does get reports  showing all failed 
transactions. But the transactions Mr S is disputing dont show  on these reports. So Barclays 
feel that the most likely  explanation is that there  is a problem with the terminals in the store  
in question. 
Ive also noted  that Mr S doesnt seem to have the same  problem  elsewhere.  It seems to just 
be a problem when  he tries to make transactions with one particular company in store. On 
that basis I dont  think  that Barclays conclusion that the problem is most likely to be with a 
particular companys terminals in store is an unreasonable  one.
Looking at all the information I have I dont  believe there is anything  more that Barclays 
could have done with regard to the failed transactions. And I do believe it has already  
adequately compensated  Mr S for the distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216041