K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc isnt treating him fairly  now that the 
term of his interest only mortgage has come to an end. He feels RBS is forcing him to sell 
his property and wants it to agree a payment arrangement or grant him a repayment 
mortgage.
background
Mr Ms had his mortgage with RBS for many  years.  The term first expired in 2005, and was 
extended for ten years in 2006   expiring again in 2016. Mr M also complained  about  the 
2006 term extension, but our investigator said that complaint was out of time, so this 
decision focuses on what happened  following the end of the term in 2016.
Mr Ms mortgage paperwork shows that when it was taken out an endowment policy was the 
repayment strategy.  That endowment is no longer available  and Mr M has no other  means of 
repaying his mortgage.  Following an accident  some years ago hes been out of work and in 
receipt of benefits   including support for mortgage  interest which contributes  to his monthly 
repayments.
Mr M asked  RBS to extend  the term further and convert the mortgage to repayment terms. 
Having considered his income  and expenditure, RBS didnt think that was affordable. Instead 
it offered to put Mr M through its assisted voluntary sales process   a process where  the 
bank would help Mr M market the property, and pay the fees associated with it, so that the 
mortgage could  be repaid.
Mr M wasnt happy with that. He said the bank was forcing him to sell the property which he 
didnt want to do. He was finding that very stressful and difficult. He wanted the bank to 
agree a repayment arrangement to pay the mortgage back  over time. He said that if it had 
done that back in 2006 as he wanted,  the mortgage  would be paid off by now.
Our investigator didnt  think RBS had acted unfairly,  as Mr M couldnt  afford  to pay the 
mortgage back and so a property sale was the best option. Mr M asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that what happened in 2006  is out of time under our rules. It was more than six years 
ago, and based on the contemporaneous notes I think  Mr M was aware of what  was agreed 
 and aware he might have cause for complaint about it  at the time. His accident in 2014  is 
after the expiry of the time limit, and so isnt an exceptional circumstance that explains why 
he didnt complain before it expired in 2012. So Ill only consider the more recent events 
here.
The outstanding balance  on Mr Ms mortgage  is small, around £12,000. An endowment was 
in place at one point, it seems, but is no longer  available. RBS says Mr M told it he used the 
endowment to purchase another  property which was later sold to pay off other debts. I dont 
know if thats correct or not. But at any rate, Mr M now doesnt  have the endowment and 
doesnt have any other  way of repaying  his mortgage. 
Ref: DRN48165722Although the balance  is small, because Mr M isnt working RBS concluded he wouldnt be 
able to afford the repayments if it was changed to repayment terms. Ive looked at the 
information it considered about Mr Ms income,  outgoings and other debts  information 
Mr M gave  the bank  and I think that was a reasonable decision. However long a term 
extension, the monthly payments would go up if the mortgage was converted  to repayment,  
because Mr M would have to pay some capital  as well as interest  each month. That wasnt 
affordable. 
If Mr Ms circumstances  change, he may be able to ask RBS to look at this again. But based 
on what it considered  at the time,  I think it was fair for RBS to conclude that converting to 
repayment wasnt a viable  option.
If Mr M cant afford to repay the capital, and has no other repayment strategy (hes 
mentioned an insurance payout following his accident, but theres no evidence  of when that 
might be paid or how much it might  be), there  are only two options left  extending  the term 
on an interest only basis, or repaying the mortgage now.
I dont think a term extension on interest  only terms is in Mr Ms best interests at this point. It 
doesnt seem his circumstances are likely  to change in the future. Theres  no evidence  that 
hell be able to repay the capital in the future any more than he can now.  A term extension 
will leave him in much the same  position in the future as hes in now  but older  and having 
paid more interest. And theres a risk the value  of his property might fall in the meantime, 
reducing the equity  available  to him once  the mortgage is repaid  especially if he continues 
to claim support for mortgage interest  benefit in its new loan form.
The term extended in 2016, and RBS is entitled  to expect its capital to be repaid.  I think  its 
fairly considered all the alternatives, and reasonably decided there arent  any that are in 
Mr Ms best interests.  Its offered to assist  with the costs and process of selling the property, 
which I think is fair.
There are other options if Mr M doesnt  want to sell the property. Hes unlikely to be able to 
get another standard  mortgage for the same  reasons RBS didnt  think converting this one 
was affordable. But given his age and the small balance, an equity release mortgage may be 
a possibility  Mr M may want to take some  independent advice about that.
RBS should consider any future proposals Mr M has to make, including  re-starting the 
assisted voluntary sale process, and I wouldnt expect it to go straight to repossession 
proceedings without doing  so. But based  on everything thats been said to date, I think its 
acted fairly  and so I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN48165723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4816572