K820x#14Complaint
Miss G complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC shouldnt  have  allowed her access to an overdraft 
facility in 2018. She doesnt think Lloyds did enough  checks to ensure she could afford to 
repay the overdraft  when  it was renewed. 
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 4 June 2021 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should not be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Both parties  acknowledged receipt  of the provisional decision. Lloyds agreed with my 
findings, but Miss G didnt  agree  and raised  several points. In summary,  she said:
the overdraft should have been  removed as early as 2015  as shed switched to another 
account provider  and she hasnt used the Lloyds account  since  2015;
as credits werent being applied to the account, her account with Lloyds didnt qualify for 
an overdraft under  the terms  of the account;
her new account provider hasnt provided  an overdraft as she is ineligible;
Lloyds should have applied the same rules as her new account  provider; but it didnt do 
sufficient checks  in line with lending regulations; 
her MP has said to contact this service  not Lloyds; however, she has contacted it 
several times,  but Lloyds hasnt responded to her correspondence following the default, 
including a request for a Subject Access Request (SAR);
Lloyds has since unfairly referred her account  to a debt collection service;  
its the role of ombudsman  service to resolve  the current situation and shes seeking 
compensation for the incorrectly applied default;
she doesnt  want to deal with Lloyds  directly and she has no income or means to repay 
what is owed.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Miss Gs comments  made 
in the emails she sent in response  to my provisional  decision.
But having  done so, I dont intend  to depart from my provisional decision. I know Miss G will 
be very disappointed as I can see from her correspondence how strongly  she feels about  
this matter. So, Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think it would be helpful if I set out what complaint  issues  are in scope within  this 
complaint. 
Miss G bought her complaint to us in April 2019.  At that point, in her correspondence she set 
out that her complaint related to a default applied by Lloyds to her credit  history  she 
wanted the default removed from her credit file. She said she was unhappy with the service  
she received from Lloyds when her account became overdrawn in March  2018 as she was 
trying to reach an agreement on how to repay  the outstanding sum to prevent further action 
(the default)  being taken.  
Ref: DRN40260512But Lloyds didnt  consent to this service  considering  her complaint. It said Miss G had 
referred her complaint  to us too late as it had issued  its Final  Response on Miss Gs 
complaint in September 2018. While  this service was looking into what Lloyds said, Miss G 
also said shed raised concerns  about Lloyds continuing to provide her with an overdraft 
facility in 2018. She said her circumstances had changed and she hadnt been using the 
account. And she didnt  think Lloyds had done enough checks  to ensure she could still afford 
the overdraft facility.
 
Ultimately, as I explained in my provisional decision, another ombudsman from this service  
set out the scope of this complaint. He decided that Miss Gs complaint around Lloyds 
defaulting her account  and recording this on her credit file wasnt a complaint this service 
could consider - it was bought to us too late under the rules that we apply. But the 
ombudsman  in his Provision Decision and subsequent Final  Decision dated                                   
23 December 2020, said that this service  could look at Miss Gs complaint about  her no 
longer being eligible for an overdraft in 2018.  
He noted that this complaint point  was first raised  with Lloyds in January 2019  and that          
Miss G has since  clarified this complaint as being  that she shouldn't have  still had access to 
the overdraft facility when she used it in 2018, as the account had been dormant for some  
time. She says that by the time she came  to use it again in 2018 she could no longer afford 
to borrow anything - so she doesn't believe the bank should have lent to her without further 
checks being earned out. 
And Ive not seen  anything to suggest  that Miss G disagreed with the ombudsmans  
confirmation of her complaint point that he said was in scope. I do note that during  the time 
this complaint has been with us, Miss G has mentioned other issues   such as the debt 
recovery action taken  by Lloyds and that it didnt respond to her correspondence including  a 
request for a SAR. But I think the scope  of this complaint  was made clear in the previous 
Ombudsmans decision. And so, the additional points Miss G has mentioned since are not in 
scope for this complaint. If Miss G wishes to pursue  these points, I leave it open to her to 
contact our investigator to confirm  what additional  points she wishes  to raise as a formal 
complaint and a new complaint can be set up. So, for clarity, this decision solely relates to 
whether Lloyds should have renewed  the overdraft facility on Miss Gs account in March  2018.    
As I explained in my provisional decision when a lender allows  an account holder access  to 
a new credit facility it is required to complete checks to ensure the lending is affordable. But I 
also explained that in the circumstances Im looking at  the renewal of the overdraft in 2018, 
Miss Gs overdraft  facility (an open  ended-credit  facility with no end date)  was already in 
place and had been for a few years. I note the account terms says Lloyds will review  the 
facility annually. But as Lloyds wasnt providing  Miss G with new borrowing it didnt need to 
do the same  level of checks required when new borrowing is being  agreed. 
By 2018, when looking  at whether the existing overdraft should  be renewed, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to review the conduct of Miss Gs account to see whether there was 
any reason the facility  ought to be withdrawn. Reasons why such  a facility  might be 
withdrawn in these  circumstances might include things like whether  the account  holder had 
breached the terms and conditions, or the customers use of the facility was demonstrably  
unsustainable. 
Ref: DRN40260513In essence, I think Lloyds simply needed to assess how Miss G had been managing her 
account in the previous 12 months  taking into account what it already knew  about  her 
circumstances and any obvious signs of difficulty.
Miss G has said she hadnt been using her account  for some time and thats why Lloyds 
shouldnt have renewed her overdraft.  But Ive looked at her account for the 12 months 
leading up to the renewal.  And I dont  agree  that the account hadnt  been used. Miss Gs 
account statements  show quite a lot of regular  activity on the account  and that Miss G 
maintained the account in credit for the 12 months  leading up to the overdraft renewal. 
I accept that the account wasnt in receipt of regular credits and I note Miss G has said that 
this is in breach  of the terms of the account  for an overdraft to remain on the account. But 
Ive not seen anything in the account terms and conditions which state  that regular credits 
should be paid to the account in order to retain an overdraft facility.  And, as the account 
didnt go overdrawn during the 12-month  period leading up to the overdraft renewal, there  
was no obvious  need for funds to have  been credited. 
I can also see the address Lloyds  held for Miss G - at the time of the overdraft renewal, was 
the address of the university  where  previous credits to the account had been received from. I 
appreciate that Miss G has told us that she had moved. But from what Ive seen, I dont think 
she attempted to change  the address Lloyds held for her until later in 2018. So, I dont think 
there was anything to indicate that there had been  a change in Miss Gs circumstances or 
anything about  the conduct  of the account in the previous 12 months  that should have 
alerted Lloyds to do more  checks.
Overall, while  I emphasis with Miss G about  the health issues  she has told us about and I 
acknowledge the upset Lloyds action has caused her since the account went  overdrawn  in 
March 2018, I remain  of the opinion that I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to have 
renewed the overdraft  facility on the account  in March 2018.  In my view, there were no 
obvious signs that the facility wasnt being  used as intended or that it had become 
demonstrably unsustainable.  
Miss G has told us she is unable to deal with Lloyds  or its collection agents about the 
outstanding debt directly due to her health situation.  As such,  Miss G may benefit  from 
contacting a debt advice  charity (examples below),  who may be able to contact Lloyds or the 
collection agents on her behalf if she hasnt already done so.   
Step Change: www.stepchange.org/Contactus.aspx 
National Debtline: www.nationaldebtline.org/
Citizens Advice Bureau: www.citizensadvice.org.uk/about-us/contact-us/
Ref: DRN40260514My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Gs 
complain about  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN40260515Copy of the provisional  decision dated 4 June 2021
Complaint 
Miss G complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC shouldnt  have  allowed her access to an overdraft 
facility in 2018. She doesnt think Lloyds did enough  checks to ensure she could afford to 
repay the overdraft  when  it was renewed. 
What happened
Miss G held an account with Lloyds  from November 2010. In 2015,  she was provided  with an 
overdraft facility of £400.00  following an online application. Lloyds then agreed to increase 
this to £800. And it was subsequently renewed  each year up to and including early 2018.
After the renewal, in March 2018, Miss G undertook a transfer to a third party  which placed the 
account in an overdrawn position  but within the overdraft limit. While Miss G wouldve  have  
been aware of her balance at the time of the transaction, she says Lloyds shouldnt have 
allowed her to go overdrawn. She said she hadnt  used the account since  2016 and Lloyds 
hadnt done enough checks to ensure  she could  still afford the overdraft when it was renewed.
Lloyds initially asked  Miss G to pay money  into the account. But Miss G says she
told the bank she was in financial difficulty. So, it asked  her to provide some  further  
information. But this didnt happen and, ultimately,  the account was defaulted. 
Miss G complained to Lloyds about the default and said that Lloyds shouldnt have allowed 
her access  to the overdraft after several years of the account  being dormant. Unhappy with 
Lloyds, Miss G referred her complaint  to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into and thought both complaint points had been referred to 
us out of time so we couldnt  consider  the merits of them.  But, ultimately, one of our 
ombudsmen decided that Miss Gs complaint about  the default  had been bought  outside  of 
the time scales required for this service to consider  it. However, he decided her complaint 
about being allowed access to an overdraft on an account which had been dormant was 
something we could look at.    
So, our investigator looked  into that part of the complaint.  And she thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  She didnt think Lloyds  had done  had enough checks to ensure Miss G 
could still afford the overdraft when the overdraft  facility was renewed  in early 2018.  And had 
it done more checks, she thought Lloyds wouldve found that Miss Gs circumstances had 
changed and therefore could no longer afford the overdraft.
The investigator recommended  that Lloyds should  write  off the balance owing on the account, 
remove all adverse data about the overdraft (including the default)  from Miss Gs credit  file and 
pay her £1,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused. Lloyds didnt accept 
this recommendation.  It said  in summary, that the investigator had referred to evidence  
about Miss Gs circumstances which it hadnt had the chance  to consider. 
Ref: DRN40260516Our investigator considered Lloyds response in full. But she didnt think this changed the 
outcome she had reached. She said that, had Lloyds  done enough checks - when renewing 
Miss Gs overdraft  facility in early 2018, it wouldve found that the account had been dormant 
for some time. And that this should have prompted Lloyds to do more checks  which  she 
thinks would  have then prompted the removal of the overdraft from the account.  Had this 
happened, the investigator didnt think Miss G would have  been  able to make the transaction  
which caused the overdrawn position. 
She also noted that Miss G had provided evidence from her doctor which  showed she 
suffered from ill-health and that she thought this was a contributing  factor to the 
circumstances in this case.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the overdraft was renewed.
Having done so, Ive come  to a materially different conclusion to the investigator.  I know 
Miss G will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
Lloyds like all lenders  are required to lend responsibly. There  is no set list of checks a lender 
is required to do. But, at the time the overdraft was initially provided,  Lloyds needed  to 
conduct checks to make sure that the overdraft facility  it was renewing on Miss Gs account  
was affordable. Those checks needed to be proportionate to things like the amount of the 
overdraft, how much needed to be repaid (including  interest and charges), Miss Gs 
borrowing history with it and what else it knew about  her. 
But here, Miss Gs overdraft facility, which was an open ended-credit facility with no end date 
(in the way a fixed term loan would have) was already in place.  And the facility had been 
present on her account for some  years. So, Lloyds  wasnt providing her with new borrowing - 
it was merely reviewing the conduct  of the account  to see whether there  was any reason the 
facility ought to be withdrawn. Reasons why such  a facility  might  be withdrawn in these  
circumstances might include  things  like whether the account holder had breached the terms 
and conditions, or the customers  use of the facility  was demonstrably unsustainable.
 
So, in these circumstances,  I dont think the checks Lloyds needed to do would have been 
that extensive. I think Lloyds simply needed to assess how Miss G had been managing her 
account in the previous 12 months  (when  the overdraft was last renewed) taking into 
account what it already  knew  about  her circumstances and any obvious  signs of difficulty.
In this respect, Miss G has said her account was dormant for two years and thats why 
Lloyds shouldnt have  renewed her overdraft.  But Ive looked at her account for the 12 
months leading  up to the renewal. And I dont agree that the account was dormant.  
Ref: DRN40260517I can see Miss G had some problems maintaining the account  in 2016. But her statements 
show quite a lot of regular activity on the account  and that Miss G maintained  the account in 
credit for the 12 months leading up to the overdraft renewal.  I accept that the account wasnt  
in receipt of regular  credits  but thats  not entirely unexpected when it seems Miss G had 
previously told Lloyds  she was a student and the statements  indicate  that Miss G received 
irregular credits from her college.  
Equally as the account didnt go overdrawn during this period there was no obvious need  for 
funds to have  been credited. So, I dont think there is anything  about  the conduct  of the 
account in the previous 12 months  that should  have alerted Lloyds to do more  checks.
I can also see the address Lloyds  held for Miss G - at the time of the overdraft renewal, was 
the address of the college where  the student  credits had been received from. So, I dont 
think there was anything to indicate  that there had been a change in Miss Gs circumstances 
which should have  prompted Lloyds to do more checks at this point. 
So, overall, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to have renewed the overdraft facility 
on the account in early  2018. In my view, there were no obvious signs  that the facility wasnt  
being used as intended or that it had become demonstrably  unsustainable. 
     
I do understand that Miss G has told us she suffers from ill health  and I have  no reason to 
doubt that she has since suffered financial difficulties  as a result. And I do sympathise with 
her circumstances. But the evidence we have  seen from Miss Gs doctor indicates Miss G 
was diagnosed in October  2018. Whereas  the circumstances Im looking at relate to Lloyds 
decision to renew  the overdraft in early 2018   several months  earlier.  I do of course 
acknowledge that a person can be suffering from an illness  before an official diagnosis  is 
provided. But here, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss G had made Lloyds aware of 
her ill health or financial difficulties at this time. So, I dont think  this wouldve have had any 
bearing on Lloyds  decision  to renew the overdraft in early 2018.
After the overdraft was renewed, Miss G undertook a transaction  which  left the account  
overdrawn  but within the limit. And, that Lloyds wrote to her about that. So, its my 
understanding that Miss G has since told Lloyds about her circumstances and that she cant  
afford to repay the outstanding balance. As a result, the account was ultimately  defaulted. 
But, as mentioned above, I cant  consider the default as part of this complaint as another  
ombudsman has decided  it was referred  to us too late.
Lloyds does have  an obligation to treat a consumer  in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. And from what Ive seen,  it seems that Lloyds asked Miss G to provide it 
with some further information  about her situation  so it could assess how it might be able to 
help. But its also my understanding  that Miss G hasnt provided the information Lloyds 
requested. So, I don think Lloyds could have  done  anything more at that point. But by 
defaulting the account, the charges and interest would have been suspended. I would urge 
Miss G to now contact Lloyds directly with a view to discussing her circumstances in detail  
this may involve her providing the information it needs so it can assess how it might  help 
going forward. But this isnt something  I can consider as part of this complaint.
In respect of the complaint  Ive looked at  whether Lloyds  incorrectly renewed Miss G 
overdraft in early 2018, I dont think it did anything wrong or that it treated Miss G unfairly.     
       
Ref: DRN40260518My provisional decision 
For the reasons  above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.  
I now invite both parties  to provide anything further they may wish me to consider, in writing  
within two weeks, after which time I will again  consider my decision.
Ref: DRN4026051