K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Ms, Mr and Mr B say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold the PPI to Mr B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms, Mr and Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Santander  made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this as the mortgage application form had a separate section to select 
PPI which gave  the option to select redundancy, accident & sickness  cover,  or just 
accident and sickness cover,  and Mr B has ticked to choose  the former. I can also see 
the application form offered other  types  of insurance which  Mr B chose not to take, so I 
think he knew the PPI was optional  although I can understand if he cant remember  
this, given that it took place many years ago.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of Ms, Mr and Mr Bs circumstances at the time,  I 
think that it was. For example Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont 
think better  information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms, Mr and Mr B have said - including what  Mr B has said 
about his employers sick pay at the time.  But the PPI wouldve covered Mr Bs mortgage 
payments, for up to 24 months,  if he was unable to work due to illness or unemployment. 
And it wouldve paid the monthly benefit  alongside any sick pay he mayve received from his 
employer  so I think  he couldve  used any sick pay and savings to pay for his other 
expenses if he was unable to work  due to prolonged illness.  So these  points dont change  
my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B paid on the PPI  and whether Santander  
treated him unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Bs PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Santander  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Bs commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think Santander treated  Mr B unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr B back  any of 
the commission Mr B paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN47565312my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms, Mr and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4756531