K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd misled  him about  the taxation  status  of his 
pension investments when he took out a personal pension plan in 1996.
background
Mr Bs pension  was sold to him following a meeting with a representative of a company  that 
was acquired by Zurich  a couple of years  later. So although Mr B didnt deal directly  with 
Zurich when he was sold his pension plan, Zurich  is responsible for the sale.  And for 
simplicity I will refer to all actions as being taken by Zurich during this decision.
Mr Bs complaint is around the taxation status of his pension plan now he has reached  
55 years  of age and is entitled to take his benefits. He says,  in brief, that when he was sold 
the pension he was told that his pension fund would be exempt from UK taxes on income 
and capital gains.  And he says that he was told that any lump sum he took from his pension 
would be paid to him free of tax.
But Mr B says that when  he asked  Zurich to pay him his benefits he was told that he would 
have to pay tax on any lump sum that was greater  than 25% of his pension fund. And he 
says that this means he would also face additional  tax charges on any income he earned  
this tax year too.
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think  that the 
information Mr B had been given in 1996 would  reasonably lead him to the conclusion  that 
his pension benefits would be paid to him free of tax. And so he didnt think  Zurich  had 
treated Mr B unfairly. He didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
I am aware  that since  making this complaint  Mr B has encountered further problems with 
Zurich in getting his benefits  paid to him. I understand that these issues  are the subject of a 
separate complaint and so dont  form any part of my findings in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset, I want to say that Ive got no doubts  that Mr B has given us his complete and 
honest recollections of what  happened  when he was sold his pension  plan. But Im mindful 
that the events  he has told us about  took place over twenty years  ago, and over such a long 
period of time, even the most careful memories can and do fade. Where  there  are 
differences between  what  Mr B and Zurich think was discussed,  I have  needed to use the 
balance of probability in reaching  my decision  or, in other words, what  I think  is more  likely 
to have happened.
Ref: DRN46424192I also think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish  businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Mr B recalls  that he was given a number of assurances about the taxation  of his pension  
benefits when  he agreed to take the pension plan in 1996. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think that Mr B didnt want to take a pension at that time. Zurichs records  indicate 
that Mr B had said it was very important to him at that time to provide, or increase, an 
income at retirement.  So it seems  entirely  reasonable  that Mr B was sold a personal pension  
plan, especially since he had said he wasnt eligible for any occupational pension  
arrangements at that time.
Pension investments  and benefits have always been subject to a regulatory framework, 
governing the taxation status  of contributions,  investments  and benefits. And those 
regulations have changed over the years, most recently in 2015, altering  the ways  in which 
benefits could  be taken.
When Mr B took his pension plan in 1996,  consumers were  generally required to buy an 
annuity with their benefits. This provided  a source  of income until death.  But consumers 
were also allowed to take a proportion of their pension fund as a lump sum free of tax. But 
following the changes  in 2015, there was no longer any requirement to purchase an annuity  
with pension benefits. Additionally from that time consumers could access their benefits as a 
single lump sum, or in periodic withdrawals.  But each of those options  would be subject to 
different taxation  regimes.
I have no way of knowing  what  Mr B was told when he took his pension plan in 1996. But at 
that time there was generally no possibility of taking more than 25% of the fund at retirement 
as a lump sum. So on balance I would think it extremely unlikely that he would have been 
told he could withdraw the whole fund on retirement,  let alone that being done without paying 
any tax on those benefits. Instead I think  any conversation  about  lump sum withdrawals 
would have concentrated on the 25% limit that was available at that time. And as that limit 
remains in place, that is what Zurich is now correctly saying Mr B is able to take free of tax. 
I have also thought about what Mr B says about being told his pension  fund would be 
exempt from UK taxes on income and capital gains. It is clear  to me that statement in the 
terms and conditions of the plan relates to the investments that Mr B was making on the 
assets in his pension fund  it specifically refers to funds rather  than benefits. And later in 
that same  section it goes  on to confirm that any annuities paid during retirement  would be 
liable to income tax. Again it is important to remember that at that time the only benefits  
available were likely to be a tax free lump sum of 25% of the fund plus an annuity bought 
with the remaining fund.
I understand that the changes in the range and flexibility of benefits available at retirement 
might be causing some  confusion to Mr B, when being compared to the terms and conditions  
of the plan that he was sold. But until those changes were  announced by the government, 
almost twenty years  after the pension plan was sold, it would be unreasonable to expect 
them to be reflected in any terms and conditions.  Those terms and conditions  needed  to 
reflect the known  regulations at the time.
Ref: DRN46424193I dont know what Mr B was told at the time.  And I havent entirely discounted  that the 
information he was given didnt make things  clear enough for him. But I have seen that he 
was keen to ensure he took some steps to build up benefits that he could use to support his 
retirement. And he wouldnt have been able to take other retirement benefits  at the time that 
would have given  him the taxation situation that he says he was expecting.  So even if the 
taxation position had been  made  clearer I cant see that Mr B would have done  anything 
different at that time.
In conclusion I dont  think that Zurich told Mr B that he would receive  all his pension benefits  
on retirement as a lump  sum, or free of tax. I dont think those options are supported  by the 
documentation Mr B received  either.  And even if the information  that Mr B did receive  at the 
time was insufficient I dont think he would have made a different choice about providing for 
his retirement if hed been better  informed.
I understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B and that he has concerns that 
Zurich is not best placed  to manage  his pension investments. He does now have a number 
of options open to him, in either taking his benefits, or transferring them to another  provider. 
I would encourage  Mr B to consider these options  carefully, taking professional  advice if 
appropriate, to ensure  that his pension benefits best meet  his future  needs.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Zurich Assurance  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642419