K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, is unhappy  that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited declined a 
claim made on its all risks insurance  policy. 
background
M took out an annual  all risks insurance  policy (the policy) in December 2017.
M is a manufacturer  of certain  edible products.  It buys  ingredients from various suppliers, 
blends these together  and packs and seals the contents into food pouches  ready  to sell to 
its customers (the product). 
In May 2018, on sampling  a batch of the product, a bad taste and odour  was detected. M 
says it later identified that the rice used  in that batch  of the product  bought from a third-
party supplier and mixed  by M with other  ingredients to a stipulated  recipe  - had a shorter  
shelf life than had been agreed. And it was this that had ruined  the product, which couldnt 
be sold. M sought to claim on the policy to cover its associated losses.  
XL Catlin turned down the claim. Unhappy, M complained to us. It doesnt think XL Catlin  
has applied  the policy exclusions  fairly.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms complaint. He didnt think XL Catlin  had done  anything 
wrong by declining the claim. M disagrees  and has raised several  points in reply. So, its 
complaint has now been  referred to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
XL Catlin has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly,  and it shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.
The policy can cover  material damage  to Ms property - or for which  M is responsible  and 
the schedule of insurance confirms that property  includes stock. 
Damage is defined as: accidental loss or physical damage to tangible  property
Section 5.4 sets out the basis of cover and says:
 all risks shall be understood as damage  by any cause except as stated below
It goes on to say it does not include:
Damage to any property  caused by or consisting of its own:
 wearing out or gradually deteriorating
XL Catlin has relied on this exclusion when declining Ms claim.  And considering the 
circumstances of this particular complaint I dont think it has unreasonably done so because  
Ref: DRN41469752Im persuaded its fairly and reasonably concluded  that the product was damaged by 
gradually deteriorating. 
M says when it took delivery of the rice it was stored  as per recommended  guidelines. Its 
provided a document from the factory which stores its ingredients, setting out the conditions  
in which  theyre kept. However, I dont need to make a finding  on whether the rice had the 
necessary shelf life upon delivery  or whether it was damaged by the way it was stored 
afterwards. Thats because Im satisfied that between the date the rice was delivered to the 
date M determined that the odour and taste  of the batch tested wasnt  right,  the rice had 
gradually deteriorated. 
The loss adjusters report dated June  2018 says M advised it that:
when ingredients  are received  samples  are taken  before mixing takes place. It is 
their (Ms) policy that the raw ingredients have a shelf-life of at least 14 months when 
they are received. It is thought  that the product  has not turned until the final stage of 
production as tests  earlier in the stage of production  had been passed.
The third-party supplier  had reviewed the rice on 1 March 2018, around  a month before it 
was delivered to M. That report reflects:
Odour: Characteristic, without any foreign odour
Flavour: Characteristic, without any foreign flavour
Consistency/Texture: Fine powder, free flowing
Shelf-life - Minimum 12 months on delivery
Further, M has told us that rice samples  were  taken and stored upon delivery as per industry 
standards and an olfactory test was done.  M says the reason  why the problem with the rice 
hadnt been detected  earlier  was down to subjective  opinions; some chefs and fragrance 
experts have much  greater taste  sensitivity than others. 
However, taken together, Im satisfied  the tests show there was nothing  obviously wrong 
with the rice shortly  before   or shortly  after - it had been delivered to M. I think thats 
important in the circumstances of this complaint because after the rice was mixed with the 
other ingredients, and tested again  in May 2018, M says a bad taste  and odour was 
detected. Laboratory tests subsequently  showed that the rice had high levels of amino acids  
and peroxide  which wouldnt be expected in rice that still had a shelf-life  of around 12 
months.
 
So, at some point  between taking delivery of the rice and it being  blended  together  with other 
ingredients by M to form the basis of the product to be sold, I think its likely  that the rice had 
gradually deteriorated, damaging the product. 
M says the other ingredients hadnt  gradually  deteriorated  because of the rice. 
However, on balance,  the rice  which was a component part of the product  - had gradually 
deteriorated after being delivered and during  the production process. So, I dont think  XL 
Catlin has unreasonably concluded that the damage  to the product was caused by gradual 
deterioration  after all, the rice was a component part of the product and had caused the 
product to become damaged.
Ref: DRN41469753I also note that during  our investigation  into Ms complaint, and after our investigator  
provided XL Catlin with further information  M had provided us, it said it also relied on the 
following exclusion to decline Ms claim:
 defective  design, defective manufacture or defective construction or having  any 
natural or man-made  inherent flaws or defects 
It had initially relied on this exclusion as second  reason to decline the claim but after M 
complained to it, XL Catlin said it wouldnt seek to apply it. However, I dont need to make a 
finding about whether XL Catlin  has unreasonably  reintroduced the second reason to 
exclude the claim. Thats because Im satisfied, for the reasons set out above, it hasnt 
unfairly relied on another exclusion to decline the claim.
Ive considered all of Ms other comments including what it says about the subrogation 
clause in the policy and that because of this, its claim  should  be paid regardless. However, 
to seek to recover the losses from the third-party  rice supplier, XL Catlin need to be satisfied 
that Ms claim should be accepted under the policy.  And for the reasons set out above, Ive 
already explained why I dont think its unfairly  declined the claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask M to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2019. 
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4146975