K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc wont refund a number of card transactions that 
she says she neither made herself nor authorised  anyone else to make. Bank  of Scotland 
operates in this case under its Halifax brand. 
background
Miss B travelled to Jamaica in January 2018 to stay with relatives for around six weeks. 
While she was there her Halifax card was used  to make a large number of cash machine 
withdrawals and retail purchase. Miss B acknowledges  that she withdrew  some  cash when 
she first arrived in Jamaica and that she was responsible for one other withdrawal, but 
otherwise she says she didnt use her card.  The card was also used  for some transactions  
which were declined, and the total amount in dispute  is over £4,000.
When Miss B told Halifax what had happened, it investigated the disputed transactions. Most 
had been made using  the cards PIN, although some had been verified by a signature. But 
all the withdrawals and payments  had, the bank  said, been made using the genuine card. 
Since Miss B still had the card and had used it at least once around the time of disputed 
transactions, Halifax said it wouldnt provide a refund. It thought that Miss B had carried out 
the transactions herself, or had allowed someone else to use her card. 
Miss B didnt accept  the banks response  and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  what  Miss B and Halifax  had said. She broadly agreed with the 
bank that it was unlikely that a fraudster had carried out the transactions  which Miss B was 
disputing. She didnt recommend that Halifax refund them. Miss B didnt accept the 
investigators conclusions  and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
The banks records show that the chip embedded in Miss Bs card was used  to make all the 
disputed transactions.  Thats very persuasive evidence that the genuine  card was used, 
rather than a copy or clone of it. Thats  because,  whilst its relatively easy to produce a copy  
of the magnetic stripe on a card, copying the electronic chip embedded in it is a very 
different matter. Had the disputed transactions been made using a cloned card, its unlikely 
they would  have been approved; even if they had, the banks records  would show that the 
magnetic stripe had been read,  not the cards chip. 
Miss B has told us that she didnt lose her card and that she used it on two occasions while  
she was in Jamaica. She still had it with her on her return. That being  so, its unlikely that 
someone used it without her knowledge; had they done so, they would then have had to 
return it to her. 
Its possible of course  that someone close to Miss B was able to take her card and use it 
before returning  it to her. But they would still have needed to know her PIN, which she says 
hadnt been disclosed to anyone. Its possible that someone observed her PIN when she 
withdrew cash shortly after her arrival; but anyone  able to do that didnt take her card and 
return it to her. 
Ref: DRN42036082The evidence doesnt support Miss Bs case that someone else was responsible  for the 
disputed transactions.  They were  made  with the genuine card and (for the most part) the 
correct PIN. Even those that were  verified by signature  were  made by someone who had the 
genuine card. Miss B hasnt identified anyone able to take her card and use it without her 
knowledge, so I believe I can only properly conclude that she carried out the transactions 
herself or allowed someone else to do so. 
For these reasons I cannot safely say that Halifax should make a refund in this case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything more to resolve  
Miss Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4203608