K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mrs E signed. On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which has a pre-printed  
cross in it to take out PPI. The form also has other  pre-printed information  on it, such as 
Mrs Es employment details. Ive thought carefully about what Mrs E has said, but I just 
dont think theres enough  evidence to say she wasnt  given a choice. Instead I think that 
the policy  was sold to Mrs E during a meeting and that the cross in the box for PPI 
reflected a discussion Mrs E and the adviser had before the form was finalised  and that 
the form was printed  to reflect what they had discussed. So overall I think its most likely  
that Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember  this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs E so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems  to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  to her if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said, including what  shes  said about  her job being  
secure, and a different decision made  here by a different ombudsman  about a different 
persons complaint. However, the policy was designed to protect  against  the unexpected;  
even if Mrs Es job did feel secure at the time, Im not persuaded this made the policy  
unsuitable for her. And I must assess this complaint on its own merits and make  up my own 
mind  and the decision  Mrs E has referred  me to doesnt change  my mind.  So for these 
reasons, and the reasons  explained above, these  points  dont  change  my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs E paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs E back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs E now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN40753832my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4075383