K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) covering his mortgage.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
The policy  was sold in 1990.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ls representative disagreed with these findings. It reiterated Mr Ls previous 
comments that he would never knowingly have agreed to take PPI out.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Mr L has confirmed that when he took out the policy,  he did not have any sick pay entitlement 
because he was self-employed.  He has said that his wife or parents could have helped him meet 
his mortgage repayments if he wasnt working.  However, as Nationwide itself has commented, 
such help is not a guaranteed resource for covering mortgage repayments,  as other peoples 
circumstances can change over time.
The policy contained  a waiting period of 90 days before a claim could be made for disability or 
unemployment. Taking into account  Mr Ls circumstances when sold the policy,  it seems to me that 
such a waiting period is unlikely  to have been  attractive to him.
Nationwide has stated  that the waiting  period  was made clear  to Mr L in the PPI leaflet,  and in the 
policy document. I note that in the PPI section of the mortgage application form, it pointed the 
applicant towards  reading the PPI leaflet. However, it made no mention that the leaflet confirmed 
that there  were exclusions and limitations  shown in it that might  be important to the applicant.  In 
addition, in my view the 90 day waiting period was not given sufficient  prominence  in the leaflet to 
bring it to Mr Ls attention.  I also dont think that providing the full policy  terms after cover had been 
agreed overcomes  a deficiency in the information given at the time when Mr L made his choice 
about taking out PPI. In my view, the 90 day waiting period was not sufficiently brought  to Mr Ls 
attention when he was sold the policy.
Nationwide has stated  that where  an individual  was off work and having difficulties meeting 
mortgage repayments during the 90 day waiting period,  it would have considered formal or 
informal payment concessions to see them through this period. Although I have noted Nationwides 
comments, the issue for me to consider  is whether Mr L would have chosen to take out PPI if the 
waiting period had been brought  to his attention.
On balance, my view is that he would not have done. Mr Ls ability  to meet  mortgage repayments  if 
he was not working  appears to have been very limited. It seems to me that this would  have 
affected Mr Ls decision about whether he wanted  to take out a policy  that would only have helped  
replace his lost income after 90 days off work. I am also mindful that from Mr Ls point of view, he 
Ref: DRN45900782would not have known when taking  out the policy what Nationwides  attitude would be if he was 
having difficulty meeting  his mortgage  repayments.
Overall, taking into account his circumstances, my view is that Mr L would not have  taken 
out the policy if the 90 day waiting  period  had been sufficiently brought to his attention. I 
therefore consider  that the policy was mis-sold  to him.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr L nor his representative responded to my provisional  decision.
Nationwide did not agree with my provisional decision. Its opinion  is that the policy term 
relating to the 90 day waiting period was made  clear  to Mr L. It has stated that although it is 
unclear what sales  channel was used for the policy, if this had resulted  from a meeting, its 
representative would have discussed PPI with Mr L, and it would have been  good  practice  to 
have provided  the policy  leaflet.
Nationwide considers there is no reason  why Mr L would not have been given the leaflet  and 
been given the opportunity to read it before deciding whether he wished to apply for PPI. Its 
view is that Mr L had a responsibility to read the leaflet. Nationwide has commented that the 
mortgage application directed the applicant to read the PPI leaflet. It has suggested that this 
would only have taken  a few minutes  to read in its entirety. And based  on the leaflets 
content, Nationwides view is that the 90 day waiting  period was sufficiently brought to Mr Ls 
attention.
Nationwide has confirmed  that there  was approximately a three month period between the 
mortgage offer being issued and the policy commencing. It has stated that this gave Mr L 
further time to consider both the PPI leaflet  and the certificate of insurance.
Because Mr Ls wife was also living  at the property,  Nationwide  has suggested that she 
would have been providing  some  financial support  to Mr L, particularly if he wasnt working. 
Its view is that the support  the policy could have  provided Mr L outweighed any 
disadvantage relating to the 90 day waiting period. Nationwide considers that for this reason 
Mr L proceeded to take out the policy, in full knowledge of the waiting period. It has also 
highlighted that Mr L did not mention the waiting period when he made his complaint about  
the PPI sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has confirmed  that it is not known  how the PPI policy  was sold to Mr L. In 
addition, clearly I cannot know for certain  what exactly  Mr L was told about  the policys  
features in 1990. I must  therefore assess this matter based  on what I consider is likely to 
have occurred at this time, taking into account  the evidence  provided.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  whilst  the mortgage application asked Mr L to read 
the PPI leaflet, it made no mention  that the leaflet would  explain some of the limitations 
applicable to the cover. And in the leaflet  itself, my view remains  that the 90 day waiting 
period was not given sufficient prominence. In the leaflet that Nationwide  referred  this 
service to when it made its complaint submissions, there is only one mention of this 
Ref: DRN45900783particular 90 day waiting  period. Its in the What does it cover? section, and I do not 
consider that it brings this important feature of the policy  to the readers  attention. Separately 
under the main exclusions  list, there  is included a different term, but that relates to an 
exclusion for claims for unemployment in the first 90 days  of the policy starting.
My conclusion, based on the weight of evidence provided, is that the 90 day waiting period 
was not sufficiently brought to Mr Ls attention. If Mr L had been  aware  of this, Nationwide 
has suggested that he would still have gone  ahead and taken out the policy,  bearing in mind  
the benefits it offered. Nationwide also considers that Mr Ls wife would have likely assisted 
with the mortgage repayments  if he wasnt working,  lessening the significance of the 90 day 
waiting period.
But Mr L was the sole name on the mortgage,  and it seems that the application for the 
mortgage was based on his earnings alone.  He was self-employed, so did not have the sort 
of entitlement  to sickness or redundancy benefits that employees often have. In these 
circumstances, I consider that had the 90 day waiting period been  brought to his attention,  
on balance Mr L would  have decided that the policy was not sufficiently beneficial  for him to 
take it out.
My view remains, as expressed in my provisional  decision, that even  though Mr L had the 
full policy  terms for a period between receiving the mortgage offer and the policy starting, 
this does not overcome a deficiency in the information given at the time when Mr L made his 
actual decision about taking out PPI. I appreciate  that Mr L did not specifically mention the 
90 day waiting period when making  his complaint. However, overall my conclusion  is that 
had Mr L been  made  aware of this at the time of the sale, he would not have taken the policy  
out. I have  therefore  decided  that the policy  was mis-sold.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Mr L in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mr L the amount  he paid each  month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Nationwide  Building Society to pay 
Mr L fair compensation  as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN45900784John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4590078