K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains about the way Hastings Insurance Services  Limited  handled her motor  
insurance policy renewal.  She says this led to the insurer cancelling  her policy and her 
having to pay more for insurance with another company. She wants  Hastings to reimburse 
this amount to her.
 
background
Hastings said in its final response that itd had a postal error which is shown by Mrs F saying 
shed only received a letter sent in August in October 2018. It said itd confirmed in an email 
that her insurance needed renewing.  It sincerely apologised for the error and inconvenience 
caused and said it was paying  her £35 compensation  for this.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Hastings accepts there were problems  with its post and as a result  Mrs F didnt 
receive its letters sent in September  2018 asking for payment. It says it also sent an 
email but contrary to what its said it hasnt shown that was Mrs Fs preferred method 
of communication.  And Mrs F says she doesnt use email. 
Even so, the email  sent to her doesnt make  clear the policy will be cancelled if 
Hastings didnt receive payment soon. It said it couldnt collect the renewal premium  
and not to worry as itd still renewed the policy. This email  is quite reassuring in tone 
and she isnt persuaded Hastings  provided enough  cancellation  notice. It didnt make  
clear the exact  date the cancellation would take place. 
The £35 compensation paid hasnt  fairly  compensated Mrs F for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced. Mrs F says she took out other insurance at an extra cost of 
£150. The fairest thing  is for Hastings to refund  that difference paid and remove any 
record of the cancellation  from her insurance history.
Hastings doesnt  agree and has asked for an ombudsman  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Hasting accepts there were issues with its post.  As a result letters sent to Mrs F either didnt 
reach her or were severely  delayed.  
Ive seen nothing  showing Mrs F opted  to have  email as her preferred communication 
method and that would  seem an unlikely choice  as she says she doesnt use email. But even 
if she had read the email  Hastings sent to her  which  is clearly  in a standard form it would 
send to any customer in the same  situation  I agree with the investigator that Hastings 
shouldve made  clearer in it the consequences of the renewal premium not being paid and 
Ref: DRN42508332how this would lead to cancellation of Mrs Fs policy on a stated date. Its also apparent the 
correspondence Hastings  sent reassuringly says her policy  had been renewed  even though 
payment hadnt  yet been received.
Overall I think  Hastings  couldve handled  matters better and more clearly. If itd done so I 
think its more likely  Mrs F wouldve paid and the policy wouldnt have been cancelled, than 
not.
As a result Mrs F has had to pay £150 extra for similar cover. And I agree with the 
investigator that its fair for Hastings  to reimburse  this amount to her. Thats  in addition to the 
£35 compensation  its already paid her for the distress and inconvenience  shes  been 
caused. 
Its also fair and reasonable for Hastings to remove any record of the cancellation  from 
Mrs Fs insurance  history.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited should pay 
Mrs F £150 (in addition  to the £35 compensation already  paid) and remove  any record of the 
cancellation from her insurance  history.
Hastings must pay this amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs F accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If Hastings considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4250833