K820x#14complaint
Mr P took a loan to pay for an online personal  training course,  but the course provider went  
into administration before he was able to complete it. He complains  that he shouldnt be 
liable to repay the loan when he hasnt been able to finish the course.  
To resolve  his complaint  Mr P wants Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as RateSetter) to find
him an alternative course provider. If this isnt possible,  Mr P wants the loan cancelled.
Background
In September  2015, Mr P entered  into a peer-to-peer  loan agreement arranged by 
RateSetter. The loan states it was to fund a personal training course  costing £2,500. As set 
out in the credit agreement, the total amount payable by Mr P was £2,741.48 over a term of 
24 months. 
In March 2017 Mr P received a letter saying  that the course provider had ceased trading. 
The letter went on to say the provider was exploring options to help with the completion of 
courses, and it would contact Mr P again  when more  information was available.  
Mr P says he didnt hear back from the course provider. He contacted RateSetter to explain 
that he had stopped paying his loan because  he had been unable  to finish the course. 
RateSetter said it was aware of problems with the provider and was investigating. It asked 
Mr P for details of the course  and evidence of how much he had completed - with a view to 
arranging an alternative provider.  
Mr P said he had submitted his final piece of work before the provider stopped  trading.  But 
he wasnt able to provide any certificates  showing how many modules  he had completed,  or 
any of the emails from his course tutor. 
RateSetter said it couldnt arrange  an alternative provider without further evidence from 
Mr P. It said he was still liable to repay the loan in any event  and that it wasnt legally 
responsible for any problems with the course. It said it would  reconsider Mr Ps complaint if 
he could provide more evidence.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said that RateSetter cant  be held 
responsible for problems  with the training course,  because the type of loan Mr P entered into 
is specifically excluded  under the relevant legislation.  Mr P didnt agree, so the case  has 
been referred to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator.  I will explain  why. 
Under certain circumstances, consumers  who pay for goods  or services using some forms of 
credit are granted certain protections  under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the Act) if the 
credit is used to buy goods  or services. For example, if the goods/services are not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied, then the lender of the credit can be held responsible for 
putting things  right. This is set out in section  75 of the Act.
Ref: DRN46887852However, the Act doesnt  apply to the type of loan Mr P took out. This is because  Mr Ps loan 
is non-commercial. Although the loan was arranged by RateSetter,  the money lent to Mr P 
came from a number of individuals. These are typically people who have lent money via the 
RateSetter platform in a personal  capacity. They do this with the hope of earning interest on 
the money theyve  lent once its repaid  by borrowers such  as Mr P. The individuals  are 
referred to in Mr Ps agreement as RateSetter Lenders. This type of funding arrangement is 
referred to as peer-to-peer lending or crowdfunding. 
Mr Ps credit  agreement contains a statement under  the title important information - your 
rights. It reads:
This agreement is a non-commercial agreement in accordance  with the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. This means  that by entering into a loan agreement with a RateSetter 
Lender to finance  goods or services,  certain  provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974 do not apply. In particular, the provisions of section  75 do not apply. This 
means that you will not be able to make a claim against [a] RateSetter Lender or 
RateSetter if the goods or services are defective  or not what  you expected to receive. 
Your rights  in these circumstances will be against  the supplier only.
Section 75 of the Act specifically  excludes non-commercial agreements. Because  of this 
Mr P cant  hold the lender(s)  responsible  for the problems hes had with his training course. 
In any event, even  if Mr P could hold the lender(s)  responsible under section 75, we wouldnt 
be able to look at a complaint against  them. This is because  we can only look at complaints 
about regulated  financial  businesses, and the RateSetter Lenders are not regulated 
businesses. Additionally, although RateSetter is regulated, it isnt the lender of Mr Ps loan, 
so Mr P has no recourse against  RateSetter  under section  75.
This means  that we are not able to hold RateSetter  responsible for the problems Mr P has 
experienced with the course. And because of this I dont  think Ratesetter has acted  
unreasonably by not accepting responsibility for the course provider  ceasing  to trade. 
I do empathise with Mr P and appreciate his disappointment and frustration. Because the 
course provider isnt trading any more, hes had difficulty pursuing the matter with them  
directly. But RateSetter  has said it is still willing to assist him by helping find a different 
provider should  he be able to provide the evidence  it has asked for about  the progress he 
has made in is course. It says other  customers in a similar situation  to Mr P have been able 
to do so, and it has been  able to help them as a result. 
Considering RateSetter is not responsible for putting  things right under the legislation, I think 
this is reasonable,  so I am not asking them to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ref: DRN46887853Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4688785