K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC rejected her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a used car that shed bought.
background
In October  2018 Ms A bought a used  car from a dealership using her credit card.  The car 
was around nine years old but was advertised  as being in good condition and with a low 
mileage.
Two days after taking  possession of the car it broke down at a petrol station. Ms A contacted  
a roadside assistance  company who instructed another garage to attend on its behalf.  
The engineer was unable to get the car to start and it was recovered back  to the dealership.  
The engineer prepared a job sheet recording No power - Fault code FEU045   fuel pump  
mechanical.
The following  day Ms A informed the dealership  that she wanted to reject  the car as it wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. The dealership refused Ms As request. It said the car had run out of 
fuel and so it had filled it and replaced  the fuel filter. It asked Ms A to come and collect the 
car.
Ms A declined to collect the car and made  a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 against  Tesco for the purchase  price  of the car. Ms A said there had been a breach 
of contract  as the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality.
Tesco rejected  Ms As claim.  It said that the dealership  had informed it that the car hadnt 
been faulty but had run out of fuel. Tesco also said that it had contacted the garage  that had 
attended the breakdown but it had declined to get involved.  However,  it said it would review 
her claim if Ms A was able to provide evidence that the car was faulty.
Ms A contacted the roadside assistance company who provided  a statement that said there 
was nothing to suggest the engineer  who attended the breakdown  had said the problem  had 
been caused by the car running out of fuel. It said the fault code recorded by the engineer 
had been for an issue with the fuel pump. And that there was a separate code that the 
engineer would have used if the breakdown was due to low fuel.
Ms A provided this statement to Tesco but it didnt  change  its view about her claim.  Tesco  
said that the statement wasnt evidence as to the cause of the breakdown of the car as the 
roadside assistance company hadnt attended  the scene. It said it needed a detailed report  
from the engineer  who had attended  and without this report it hadnt made a mistake  in 
rejecting Ms As claim.
Ms A was unhappy  at Tescos response and complained to this service.  Our investigator 
recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said there was no evidence  the car 
had run out of fuel and he considered  that the engineer who had attended the breakdown  
was appropriately  qualified to deal with it. This engineer had recorded the reason for the car 
not working as being due to the fuel pump.
Our investigator said the issue with the car had arisen within two days  from the point of sale 
and it didnt appear to be disputed  that it had broken down. He said if the car was found to 
be faulty within the first 30 days from the point of sale then Ms A was entitled to reject the 
Ref: DRN43262862car and receive  a full refund, and the retailer  didnt have  the right to offer a repair  first. Under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 there  was a presumption that faults occurring in the first six 
months were  present or developing at the point  of sale unless the retailer  had evidence  that 
this was not the case. Here, the evidence was that there was a fault with the fuel pump as 
the dealership  had also said it changed the fuel pump filter. He said he didnt  think  the car 
had been of satisfactory quality and Ms A had the right to reject  the car.
Tesco disagreed  with our investigators view. It said that Ms A had said she had thought 
shed run out of fuel when  the car had broken down and it was more likely than not that Ms A 
had caused the damage  to the fuel pump  by using  the car when the fuel level was very low. 
Tesco said the car had been running  perfectly well before the breakdown  and if it had had 
a faulty fuel pump then there would have  been a noticeable impact on the performance of 
the car. Ms A hadnt raised any issues before it broke down.
Tesco said section 75 wasnt a 30 day money back guarantee  as it was more  likely than not 
the cars  fuel pump was fault free at the point of sale and the retailer  had acted correctly in 
refusing a refund.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 a credit  card company may be held 
jointly and severally  liable  for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer. 
There are some limitations as to when a credit  card company is liable, such  as the value of 
the goods and who the money was paid to, but those restrictions to a claim dont apply here.
Ms A says there was a breach of contract as the car she bought  from the dealership was 
faulty. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that "the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory".
And the relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard  that a reasonable person would  consider  satisfactory taking  into account any 
description of the goods, price and all other  relevant  circumstances. So it seems likely that 
in a case  involving a car, the other  relevant  circumstances to take into account might  
include things  like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle's history.
Under the relevant  law the quality  of the goods includes their general state and condition  
and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom  from minor  
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Here,  the car was around  9 years  old and had a mileage  of 58,500.  Looking  at the ad for the 
car Ive seen  it described  as very low miles  and a stunning  edition  which  I think  gives  the 
impression  that this was a car in good  condition.
It isnt disputed  the car broke  down  within  48 hours  of Ms A taking  possession  of it. Tesco  
says  that had the car had a faulty  fuel pump  from the point  of sale this would  have  been  
evident  to Ms A. But I think  its reasonable  to take into account  that Ms A would  have  had little 
use of the car and its possible  she may not have  been  alert to the symptoms  of a fuel pump  
Ref: DRN43262863failing.  Its also possible  for a fuel pump  to fail quickly.  So, I dont  think  I can fairly  say the car 
was running  perfectly  prior to its breakdown.
Ive seen  that Ms A broke  down  at a petrol  station  but the engineer  who was called  out to 
assist  was clear  in his job sheet  that the fault was mechanical.  Tesco  says  that the 
mechanical  fault was due to using  the car with little or no fuel which  led to damage  to the 
pump  or filter.  But while  I accept  this can be a cause  of the problem  I cant  say its the only 
reason  for fuel pump  problems.
Where  evidence  is missing  or contradictory  I must  decide  what  I think  is likely  to have  
happened.  I havent  seen  any evidence  from the dealership  as to what  it found  when  the car 
was returned,  but I do have  the job card prepared  at the scene  of the breakdown.  This card 
makes  no mention  that the fault with the pump  was caused  by the car being  used  when  it had 
little or no fuel. The job card says  the problem  was mechanical  and Ive seen  no evidence  
that would  contradict  that.
So, taking  into account  what  evidence  I do have,  and that a fuel pump  can fail for a number  of 
reasons,   I think  its reasonable  to conclude  that its likely  the fuel pump  was either  faulty  or 
developing  a fault at the point  of sale.  This means  the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  as, 
even  though  it was a used  car, a reasonable  person  would  not expect  a repair  to be required  
to the fuel pump  so soon  even  taking  into account  the cars  age and mileage.
As the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  Ms A had the right to reject  the car when  she did and 
under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  was entitled  to receive  a full refund.  As the dealership  
hasnt  provided  that refund,  even  though  it has the car, then Tesco  is liable  to reimburse  Ms A 
the cost of the car.
So, for the reasons  given,  Im upholding  Ms As complaint.  Im asking  Tesco  to reimburse  
Ms A the full cost of the car together  with interest.
my final decision
As set out above Im upholding  Ms As complaint. I am asking  Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
to reimburse Ms A the cost of the car together with yearly interest  at the rate of 8% from the 
date of payment  until the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4326286