K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc have imposed a daily limit on 
how many  bags of coin they can deposit in their local branch. 
background
In November 2018 Mr B complained to NatWest  after seeing a notice in his local branch 
advising that personal banking customers were no longer able to bank more than 4 bags of 
coin in a day. Hes made  larger coin deposits at this branch previously without any problems. 
And he didnt think it was fair NatWest had introduced this restriction. 
NatWest said theyd  taken  this decision as part of a review of how they work in this particular 
branch. They also listed some other nearby  branches and locations where Mr B could pay in 
more than 4 bags of coin at one time.  And they gave him £50 compensation to apologise  for 
the delay in responding to his complaint.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this response, so with the consent of the joint account holder Mrs B, 
he brought his complaint to our service. He says its not convenient for him to use the other  
locations NatWest  have suggested.  And he wants them to remove this restriction,  which has 
now been revised to allow  the deposit  of 5 bags of coin, at his local branch. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint as they felt NatWest were  entitled to make  this 
decision. But Mr B has raised a number of points as to why he disagrees. In particular  he 
doesnt think its fair that NatWest have imposed this limit when there is nothing documented 
in their terms and conditions, or elsewhere,  to say that they can do so. So the case has been  
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, 
but Ive reached  the same  conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think NatWest  have done 
anything wrong  here. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr B is unhappy with the new coin policy NatWest have introduced at his local 
branch. And I understand he doesnt  think its fair that this restriction only applies to personal 
banking customers.  But I agree with our adjudicator that this is a commercial decision 
NatWest are entitled to make about what facilities they wish to offer their customers. 
Mr B feels  its unfair this change has only been implemented  at his local branch. But 
NatWest have explained that they dont have a company-wide coin policy.  And they 
introduced this policy at his branch  because  they no longer have the resources to deal with 
large deposits of coins there. Theyve  told us that more customers  are now using  the branch, 
and they have limited  staff. Theyve also explained that this particular branch does not have 
a bulk coin in machine to accept large numbers  of coin deposits. But theyve given Mr B 
details of other nearby branches  and locations  that do. 
Mr B has explained its not convenient  for him to visit these other locations. So I can 
understand his frustration.  But NatWest  are not compelled to offer the same services  at 
every branch  they have. And its not my role to tell NatWest what  its branch policy should be. 
As our adjudicator explained, thats  the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Ref: DRN42114532Its my role to consider whether NatWest have treated Mr B fairly and reasonably  in these 
individual circumstances.  And in this case,  I think they have. The policy applies to all 
customers who use the branch, not just Mr B. And NatWest have provided him with 
alternative ways he can make bigger coin deposits, whether it be to make multiple deposits 
over different days at his local branch, or to use one of the other locations theyve 
suggested. 
Mr B says there is nothing  in the terms and conditions of his account,  or elsewhere, to say 
NatWest can introduce restrictions on the number of coins he can deposit. I agree. But I 
cant see that it states anywhere  that he will be able to make unlimited coin deposits either. 
So Im afraid  I dont agree there is any evidence that NatWest  have breached  the terms and 
conditions for his account or done  anything wrong by implementing this policy.  
I appreciate Mr B feels that the introduction of this policy is a significant change which he 
should have been notified about formally. NatWest  have  explained  that they put up notices in 
the branch telling customers about  the change.  And they communicated it verbally  to as 
many of their regular customers as possible. Theyve also told us that they applied a grace 
period for the first couple of weeks of the new policy, and allowed customers  who were 
unaware of the change  to make larger coin deposits  during this time. 
Thinking practically  about the steps  NatWest took to make Mr B aware of this change,  and 
considering the impact  of this policy, I think they acted reasonably here.  Its a branch specific 
policy, so I wouldnt necessarily expect  them to have written  to their customers about it. 
Mr B has told us he doesnt feel the notice NatWest put up about the new policy was very 
clear. But I think its reasonable  NatWest  felt that customers  would understand their 
intentions from what theyd written. And I understand that branch staff would have been able 
to explain it in further detail if customers had any questions. So again  I dont think NatWest  
made an error here.  
I appreciate Mr B is inconvenienced by this change. But I cant fairly  say that NatWest have 
done anything  wrong here, or ask them to change this policy.  I can see that they have paid 
Mr B £50 compensation for their delay in responding to his complaint. This was a relatively 
short delay, so I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4211453