K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that IG Index  Limited (IG) never made it sufficiently clear to him that if he 
had an open bet (up or down)  on say A and he then elected to open a further bet on A, 
but in the opposite direction, then unless he requested for the first bet to remain  open, the 
two bets in question would be netted  off leaving a single open up or down bet. 
background
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who concluded that IG had done 
nothing wrong  in netting off the various  bets placed  by Mr A. And because  of this, she 
concluded IG need not pay Mr A anything by way of compensation. 
Mr A disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case, Ive taken 
into account relevant  law and regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards,  codes 
of practice and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
And having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear Mr A has very strong feelings about this matter. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr A will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
On opening his trading account in 2014  Mr A confirmed that he had read and understood the 
relevant terms and conditions which included, amongst  other things, the following:
7. MULTIPLE BETS
(1)Where you have  opened an Up Bet in respect of a particular Index and
Determination Date and you subsequently  open a Down Bet (or we open a Down
Bet by executing an Order) in respect of the same Index and Determination Date,  at a 
time when  the Up Bet remains  open,  then unless you instruct us to the contrary
(for example, by way of a Force Open, if accepted by us):
Ref: DRN44488262(a) if the Stake applicable  to the Down Bet is less than the Stake applicable to the 
Up Bet, we will treat the offer to open  the Down Bet as an offer to partly close  the Up 
Bet to the extent of the Stake  applicable  to the Down Bet;
(b) if the Stake applicable  to the Down Bet is equal  to the Stake  applicable to the 
Up Bet, we will treat the offer to open  the Down Bet as an offer to close the Up Bet 
entirely; or
(c) if the Stake applicable  to the Down Bet exceeds  the Stake applicable to the Up 
Bet, we will treat the offer to open the Down Bet as an offer to close the Up Bet 
entirely and open  a Down Bet at a Stake equal to the amount of such  excess.
(2) Where you have  opened a Down Bet in respect of a particular Index and 
Determination Date and you subsequently  offer to open an Up Bet (or we open  an Up 
Bet by executing an Order) in respect of the same Index and Determination Date at a 
time when  the Down Bet remains open,  then unless you instruct us to the contrary (for 
example, by way of a Force Open, if accepted by us):
(a)if the Stake applicable  to the Up Bet is less than the Stake applicable to the 
Down Bet, treat the offer to open  the Up Bet as an offer partly to close the Down  Bet 
to the extent of the Stake applicable to the offer to buy;
(b) if the Stake applicable  to the Up Bet is equal  to the Stake  applicable to the
Down Bet, treat the offer to open  the Up Bet as an offer to close the Down Bet 
entirely; or
(c) if the Stake applicable  to the Up Bet exceeds the Stake applicable  to the
Down Bet, we may elect  to treat the offer to open the Up Bet as an offer to close  the 
Down Bet entirely  and to open  an Up Bet at a Stake equal to the amount of such 
excess.
8. CLOSING
Now I appreciate Mr A says he didnt actually  read the account terms and conditions. But I 
see no reason why IG would have known this. I think its also worth pointing out that a 
consumer, generally  speaking, is bound by a document they have signed whether they have 
read/understood it, or not.
I can see that Mr A believes the account  term quoted above could be said to be unfair as 
defined in various legislation, in particular  the The Unfair Terms  in Consumer Contracts  
Regulations 1999 . But such a finding  is for the courts to make, not our service. 
However, Ive considered  whether the account term could be said to be in breach of the 
regulators 10 Principles of Business, including (6) A firm must pay due regard  to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly and (7) a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients, and communicate  with them is a way which is clear and fair and not 
misleading. 
But having  done so Im not persuaded it is. Had Mr A read the trading account terms and 
conditions, which he accepts he didnt,  its my view that he would have understood that 
unless he instructed IG to the contrary,  any bets he opened (in an offering that he already 
held an open position in but in the opposite direction) would be netted off. 
Ref: DRN44488263I accept that IG has recently amended its trading platform so as to allow its clients  the option 
of having any new bets opened not netted off (with older bets open in the same and in the 
opposite direction) as a trading account  default.  But as the adjudicator said,  this change 
doesnt mean IGs previous trading platform functionality was wrong. And in my view, what  
was required of Mr A to ensure any new bets he opened werent netted off, wouldnt have 
been particularly  onerous for him.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that whilst I accept that Mr A might have 
preferred to have  had, on various occasions,  two bets open in opposite  directions rather  than 
a single bet open in one direction, I cant see that this in itself has caused him the losses he 
has submitted. In my view, unless a consumer is a frequent and heavy trader and a trader  
who tends to invest in positions that are volatile, illiquid and subject to wide spreads, netting  
off two bets has very little, if any, financial  detriment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my conclusions.  My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr A doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
IG Index Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4448826