K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
2006. Ms W and Mr F say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
Ms W and Mr F bought a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP)  to cover  their mortgage in
2006. TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage  Repayments Cover (which  is a form of
MPPI), life cover and critical illness cover. Ive looked at the sale of the MPPI cover only.  The
MPPI covered both Ms W and Mr F, although  I can see that Mr F was taken off the MPPI at 
a later date.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms W and Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Ms W and Mr F 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms W and Mr Fs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Halifax had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Ms W and Mr Fs consent 
before adding the policy. Ms W and Mr F say the policy was not presented as optional  and 
they were told they had to have it in order to secure  the mortgage. They also say Halifax  
hasnt provided  evidence to show that it was made abundantly clear  the MPPI  was optional
There is not much paperwork available from the sale  but this isnt surprising considering 
how long ago it took place. So Ive considered Ms W and Mr Fs comments alongside what  I 
know in general  about how Halifax sold these types  of policies and the few documents we do 
have. I can see a demands and needs  statement has been completed, which  shows a 
discussion is likely to have taken place  about  Ms W and Mr Fs circumstances and 
requirements. Whilst I cant  say for certain what was discussed, I think  its likely that the 
MPPI, alongside other insurance, wouldve been spoken about.
Following this, Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter sent to Ms W and Mr F following their 
discussions. This letter begins  thank you for choosing a Halifax Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan. This implies that they had a choice  to take the policy,  and I think  they wouldve 
questioned it at this stage  if they had been  told they had to have it as a condition of the 
mortgage. 
Furthermore, Ive seen a copy of Ms W and Mr Fs mortgage offer and on it is a section  
relating to insurance which  states you do not need to buy any insurance through  Halifax  
Plc. Below this a breakdown of the insurance  products  they have decided to take out is 
presented, with the individual costs. Again, I think if Ms W and Mr F did not want  the MPPI 
they could have queried this. 
Based on the evidence  we do have I think its more likely that Halifax made it clear  that Ms 
W and Mr F didnt have  to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN45346952Ive also considered Ms W and Mr Fs comments  that they felt pressured into taking out the 
MPPI. But they havent been able to say what exactly  the Halifax advisor said or did to make  
them feel like this. Thats  understandable given the time thats passed. I can accept the 
advisor may have told them it was a good idea to take the policy.  But this isnt the same as 
pressure. So overall I havent seen enough to uphold the complaint only on what  Ms W and 
Mr F have  said.
Halifax recommended  the MPPI to Ms W and Mr F so it had to check  that the MPPI was right 
for them and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. I 
say this because:
Ms W and Mr F were both eligible for the MPPI. 
It doesnt seem they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions. 
Ms W and Mr F have  referred  to their employee  benefits  and say they were  
significant so they wouldnt need  the policy. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 
months if either Ms W or Mr F were off work  due to accident or sickness.  I  
understand Ms W and Mr F were in good  health, but the PPI is designed to cover 
unexpected situations.  And the policy benefit  was split 50:50  so that if one of them 
was off work unwell  they would receive 50% of the benefit. This means they wouldve 
had peace of mind  that part of the mortgage  payment would  be covered, and any 
employee benefits could be used to help cover every day expenses  or other financial  
commitments.  
Mr F has also referred to the death  in service  cover they both had through  their 
employer. But this offers a different  type of protection so I dont think  its comparable  
to the MPPI. 
The PPI wouldve also paid for up to 12 months  if Ms W or Mr F were made 
redundant. Ms W and Mr F say they were  made  redundant and received significant 
lump sums. The policy wouldve paid out alongside this payment  had they needed to 
use it. And I appreciate  they found work very quickly after they were made 
redundant, and didnt  need to rely on the MPPI. But had they been out of work  for an 
extended period  of time the MPPI  wouldve been  useful. 
Ms W and Mr F were taking on a significant and long term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for them. And I think having the security  that their 
repayments wouldve  been made  if they were unable to work wouldve been  
important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms W and Mr F.  And  as the 
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have  amended or cancelled  the 
policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms W and Mr F about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
Ref: DRN45346953Ive thought about everything Ms W and Mr F has said, including  the comments about their 
past experience  with a different provider. However, I dont think  these are relevant to their 
complaint against  Halifax.  So these points  dont change my decision  and for the reasons 
set out above,  I dont  think  the MPPI was mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing  for Ms W 
and Mr F, as they clearly  feel strongly about their complaint. But I hope my decision clearly  
addresses their concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4534695