K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of O, a limited company, about the way Markel International 
Insurance Company Limited  has handled  a claim for legal expenses cover.
References to Markel  include its claim handling  agent. And for ease Ill simply refer to Mr D 
throughout this decision  as hes represented O throughout the claim and this complaint.
background
Mr D has a number of complaints but this case is about Markels reference ****1918. Hes 
unhappy with the way Markel handled the matter and in particular  about  the way the matter 
was concluded  in 2018.
Mr Ds legal dispute was detailed, with complexities and subject to active litigation.  Markel 
instructed lawyers to review the matter  and Counsels advice was sought  in relation to 
various heads of claims and their ongoing  prospects of success.  And its apparent that 
several thousands of pounds  were  spent by Markel in relation to the conduct of the claim 
and the provision of legal advice and other expert  advice. In the end part of the claim was 
discontinued and part was conceded at court. 
Markel explained that Counsels  expert  advice was that the part discontinued no longer had 
reasonable prospects of success. The discontinued  part was on the basis  that expert 
accountants did not support the financial loss allegedly suffered. And the amount potentially  
recoverable against  the other party was less than Mr Ds liability  for his and the other  partys  
costs. In summary, the legal advice from solicitors and Counsel was that going to full hearing 
would have exposed  Mr D to a higher costs exposure beyond  the limit of the policy.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  Markel  had acted unfairly. 
She said that complaints about  the quality of the legal advice was not a matter  for us but the 
Legal Ombudsman (for solicitors) and the Institute  of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales covered concerns about accountants. I would  add that concerns about  Barristers can 
be taken to the Bar Standards Board.
The investigator concluded that Markel was entitled to rely on the legal advice it was 
provided when  making  its decision with regard  to cover and indemnity under the policy. And 
while Markel has responsibility for the way its agent handles a claim, she didnt think there 
was anything unfair in withdrawing funding and cover based on expert  legal advice. She 
didnt think Markel needed  to do anything more.
Mr D disagreed with the investigator and in particular said he was never told by Markel that 
he could have chosen a different solicitor. The investigator pointed  out that the policy  said 
Mr D was entitled to choose his own solicitor  from the point of issuing proceedings and in 
correspondence from Markel. But Mr D continued  disagreeing as he hadnt said hed read 
the policy and believed Markel should have told him this information. The matter has been 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45546942The policy,  like every other  legal expenses cover that Ive seen, requires certain  conditions  
to be met for a successful claim. Importantly in this case are that it must be reasonable to 
incur legal expenses  and that there are reasonable prospects  of recovery  of damage or 
other remedy. And where  during the course of a claim these aspects arent  met Markel  can 
withdraw cover. 
These features  are common with legal expenses cover and Im not persuaded that theyre  
unfair. A reasonably prudent consumer is unlikely  to proceed or continue with litigation 
where legal  advice is to the effect  that the case is unlikely to be successful, or the cost of 
pursuing it is more than the recovery being sought.  It wouldnt be fair to expect a legal  
expenses insurer to continue incurring costs where  the result  is more likely than not to be 
unfavourable.
Markel supported Mr Ds claim until the point expert legal advice concluded that part of 
Mr Ds legal case no longer had reasonable prospects of success. And funding  was 
withdrawn for another part before proceeding to trial because of the lack of evidence to 
support the damages being  sought.  And the likely legal costs against  Mr D, together  with the 
costs already incurred  by Markel, was a factor that Markel accepted legal advice on too.
I am persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that Markel exercised its decision based on expert  
legal advice. And as theres nothing to show the advice was obviously wrong, Im satisfied 
Markel has acted in line with the policy and in a manner  thats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
The policy is clear about when Mr D could choose  his own lawyer  and Im satisfied that there 
was no duty on Markel, in the circumstances of this case, to actively encourage or suggest 
to Mr D that he could  seek out his own lawyer.  Markel was providing cover  under the policy  
and engaged with Mr D, solicitors and barristers  in the conduct of his case.  Thats what the 
policy is for and Im satisfied Markel acted fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
O a limited company,  to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554694