K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) wont  refund premiums  
they paid for a contents insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O held a contents  insurance policy with St Andrews for their second  property.  In 
early 2018  St Andrews  became aware  that Mr and Mrs O didnt live at the property. They 
said they couldnt provide cover and cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs O later complained to St Andrews and they admitted the policy  had been  
cancelled in error, as they couldve offered cover,  but with further restrictions in place. But as 
the policy had been cancelled for more than a year, they werent able to reinstate it. Instead 
St Andrews  apologised and offered £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with the level of compensation offered and approached this 
service.
Our investigator looked at everything  but didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged  that 
St Andrews  shouldnt have cancelled the policy, but he also said Mr and Mrs O couldve  
claimed under the previous policies, so he didnt think they should refund the premiums paid. 
He also said the £100 offered by St Andrews was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator  and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
It isnt in dispute that St Andrews shouldnt  have cancelled  the policy when they did, so I 
dont need to consider this point specifically further.  What I need to decide  is whether 
St Andrews  should  refund the premiums Mr and Mrs O paid.
Mr and Mrs O say that they held a policy  which  wasnt suitable, so they would never have 
been able to claim. Therefore they say they should receive a refund of premiums  paid over 
the years.
However, St Andrews has shown  that the policy wouldve been  available  to Mr and Mrs O  
which is why they agree it shouldnt have been  cancelled when it was. But the policy 
wouldve had additional endorsements in place as the property wasnt lived in.
Ref: DRN43316322I wont quote in full here what  the additional  endorsements were, as Mr and Mrs O have 
been made aware of this, but in summary  they include:
Excluding theft cover after 30 days
Excluding malicious damage and vandalism
Requiring certain security measures  to be in place
Therefore if an insured  event had happened, and it met the required terms and conditions, 
Mr and Mrs O wouldve  been able to make a claim under  their policy.  With this in mind Im 
unable to say Mr and Mrs O held a policy they would  never  have been  able to claim under, 
or consequently  that they should be refunded the premiums paid.
Even if it was the case that Mr and Mrs O couldnt  have the policy  which  isnt true here  
then they would likely have taken an alternative policy elsewhere, which  is something  
theyve since tried to do.
And as Mr and Mrs O have found,  insuring  an unoccupied property can be expensive, as it is 
at more of a risk of loss to insurers. So if Mr and Mrs O held a policy  elsewhere,  then it may 
well have cost more  than the policy they held with St Andrews. But the fact of the matter 
here is that the policy Mr and Mrs O had with St Andrews couldve been claimed under.
St Andrews  cancelled the policy  two months before the renewal date. They accept they 
shouldnt have done this at the time, as they couldve offered the policy (with the additional  
endorsements added). 
However, St Andrews has also shown  that if they were  made  aware during a policy year that 
the property wasnt  lived in, and it wasnt used solely by family members,  then they wouldnt 
have been able to offer renewal. In addition, the type of policy  Mr and Mrs O had is no longer 
available from St Andrews. So whilst the policy was cancelled two months  early,  
Mr and Mrs O would always have needed to change provider at renewal, two months  later.
I also note from the more recent policy documents Ive seen  that they said the property 
wasnt unoccupied  for more than 30 days or a weekend or holiday home. This would indicate 
that St Andrews wasnt aware of this. So at whatever point Mr and Mrs O updated 
St Andrews  on the correct position, they wouldnt have  been able to offer cover beyond the 
renewal date.
Fortunately Mr and Mrs O didnt need  to make  a claim under the policy. But if they had, then 
St Andrews  would have  considered a claim subject  to the policy  terms and additional 
endorsements being added. So its not the case that Mr and Mrs O were paying  for a service  
from which they could  never benefit.
St Andrews  have confirmed they havent recorded the cancellation on external databases, 
and theyve given  £100 compensation. Whilst I agree St Andrews shouldnt have cancelled  
the policy when  they did, the compensation theyve offered for this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN43316323my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4331632