K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt pay a fair total loss settlement 
for his car when  he made  a claim under  his car insurance policy.
background
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with UKI. In February 2019 he made a claim. An 
engineer said that the damage to Mr Ds car meant it wasnt economical to repair.  So UKI 
settled Mr Ds claim by paying him the market value of his car. UK valued  Mr Ds car at 
£21,975.
Mr D didnt think this sum was enough to reflect what his car was worth. He said he paid 
more than this when he purchased the car approximately six weeks before  the incident.
UKI said it had reached its valuation  correctly. So Mr D asked us to look at his complaint.
Mr D provided  examples of consumer  guide  valuations. He thought a fairer  settlement sum 
for his car was £23,496  based on one of the consumer  guides. 
Our investigator initially thought UKI should increase the settlement sum because  it had only 
considered one of the main motor trade guides.  He explained that our general  approach  is to 
look at all of the main motor trade guides to reach  an average.  However, the investigator  
initially thought  in this case UKI should increase the settlement sum to £23,621. He 
considered the advertised prices online as well as the consumer  guides  Mr D provided.  
UKI didnt  agree. It said that the investigator  hadnt  followed our usual approach  and hadnt  
justified why. 
In May 2019  our investigator issued a second view. He thought  UKI should  pay the average 
of the four main motor  trade guides  in line with our approach. This came to £22,553. So he 
recommended UKI pay Mr D an additional £578.
UKI accepted the investigators second view. Mr D didnt agree. He feels the examples he 
provided shows the valuation for his car should be more. Mr D believes a valuation of 
£23,158 is fairer,  based on the average of the consumer guides hes looked at. 
As Mr D didnt  agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  a valuation for a car. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached its 
decision reasonably  and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ds policy  says the most UKI will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value of his 
policy at the date of loss. It doesnt  define  what  it means by market  value.
Ref: DRN41949422We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We think the more  reliable way 
to decide a fair market value for a car is to look at the main motor  trade guides. They  provide 
average valuations  based on likely selling prices. They  can provide these valuations using 
the same  make,  model, condition, specification, age and mileage as Mr Ds car. If we move  
away from this approach, this is usually because a car is very rare or, for example a classic 
car. And so we may look at adverts  in some  cases.
We tend to find the guides more  reliable than advertised prices and consumer guides. 
Advertised prices can vary widely and tend to be a starting point  to negotiate a price 
downward.
UKI looked at one of the main motor trade guides  when deciding  a valuation  for Mr Ds car. 
But I dont think this was a reasonable approach to take. We checked the other  three main 
motor trade  guides  and found the average  valuation for Mr Ds car came to £22,553.  So I 
dont think UKI acted reasonably when it decided a market value for Mr Ds car of £21,975. 
I therefore think UKI should increase  the market value by a further £578 and pay interest on 
this sum at 8% simple interest  a year from the date of the claim to the date it pays  Mr D. 
I understand Mr D will be disappointed  with my decision. But there isnt enough to persuade 
me that we shouldnt  apply our general approach  in this case.  I think the increased  sum of 
£578 is fair and reasonable  and in line with the policy  and the approach  we would expect 
UKI to apply  to any other customer in the same circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited to increase the market value settlement it paid Mr D by a 
further £578. It should pay interest  on this sum at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year from 
the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr D. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the sum within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the award  from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr D a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4194942