K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with Skipton Building Society. The 
mortgage is in two parts, each on different interest  rates. Mr and Mrs S say that during 
conversations in 2010 and 2011  respectively, they were  told they couldnt change one rate 
without changing  the other as well. They discovered  this wasnt  the case  in 2017, and want  
to be compensated  for the extra interest theyve paid since  2010.
background
The mortgage started in 2007 when, on the advice  of a broker,  Mr and Mrs S borrowed 
£240,000, plus fees, on an interest-only  basis over 25 years. The interest rate for the 
mortgage was a lifetime  tracker at 0.49% above  Bank of England Base Rate. In 2009, on the 
advice of a different broker, Mr and Mrs S took out a £50,000 further advance. This was also 
interest-only, repayable in 23 years  7 months to coincide with the end date of the first 
mortgage. The rate for the further advance was Skiptons standard  variable rate (SVR).
In October  2017, Skipton called and spoke to Mr S; the reason for the call was to discuss the 
repayment strategy for the mortgage, but the difference between the two rates  came up. 
Skiptons call-handler said Mr and Mrs S could look into changing the SVR on the further 
advance to something cheaper. Mr S said he thought hed asked about that before and been 
told theyd have to change both rates. The callhandler assured him that wasnt  the case  
and gave him a number  to call if they wanted  to go through an interview  to change to a new 
product and/or discuss the repayment  strategy.
Mr S rang Skipton in June  2018; the call ran for almost an hour and half, and covered both 
topics (that is, interest rates and the repayment strategy) as well as the scope  of making 
overpayments. Mr and Mrs S also started a complaint with Skipton around this time. 
They recalled two telephone conversations held with Skipton in 2010  and 2011  respectively, 
saying that theyd asked then if it would  be possible to get a better rate on the further  
advance. They say they were told at the time that they couldnt change  the SVR on the 
further advance  unless they also changed the tracker rate on the main mortgage.  Knowing 
now that this wasnt  the case, Mr and Mrs S said theyd been  overcharged  on the further  
advance for the past eight years or so.
Skipton no longer held any recordings of the phone calls from 2010 or 2011, but it did have 
historic contact notes. Those  notes  indicated that the reason for both calls had been to 
discuss making overpayments  to reduce the balance; the notes didnt suggest that interest  
rates had come up in the conversations.
Skipton didnt uphold the complaint, and when Mr and Mrs S referred the complaint here, our 
investigator wasnt persuaded  it should be either. Mr and Mrs S want  to continue  with the 
complaint by having it reviewed by an ombudsman. Thats  why its now with me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules require us to determine a complaint by considering all of the evidence  from both 
parties in order to decide whats fair in all the circumstances. Where the available  evidence 
Ref: DRN43120982is contradictory, incomplete, or even missing altogether,  we reach our conclusions on the 
basis of what is most  likely to have happened  on the balance of probabilities. Thats  the 
same approach that the courts use in civil cases.  
Here, the complaint is about what happened (or didnt happen) in 2010 and 2011.  Theres no 
dispute Mr S spoke to Skipton then, as he recalled during the October 2017 conversation,  
but theres a clear  conflict between Mr and Mrs S recollections and the notes Skipton 
recorded at the time about what the conversations covered. 
The investigator preferred  Skiptons records to Mr and Mrs Ss recollections, and whilst I 
appreciate how disappointed Mr and Mrs S will be, Im afraid I do too. The value  of such 
records is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should generally reflect what  was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. 
Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might  be recorded  
incorrectly. But theyre typically  more  reliable than peoples individual  recollections  at a 
distance of time which, although given in good  faith,  can sometimes be inaccurate or 
inconsistent, albeit not intentionally. Overall, Im not persuaded that the calls in 2010 and 
2011 included  discussions  about interest  rates.
Mr S asked that we take account of the conversations  in 2017 and 2018. Although not 
directly relevant to the events years  earlier,  they said the more  recent  conversations show  
Skipton was still trying to get them to consider changing the rate on the main  mortgage as 
well as the further advance. Recording of those calls are available and Ive listened  to both.
In the October  2017 call, Im satisfied the handler made it very clear that Mr and Mrs S could 
review the further  advance rate without  disturbing the tracker rate on the main account. In 
the June 2018 call, the handler did say it might be necessary to consider changing the rate 
on the main mortgage,  but there  was a specific context to that. It was mentioned  solely as 
something that would  be necessary if Mr and Mrs S decided to change all or part of the main 
mortgage from interest-only to capital repayment. When  the handler  explained  this to Mr S, 
he said hed prefer to leave the main mortgage as it was and just focus on changing the rate 
on the further advance.
I dont find that it was unreasonable of Skipton to ask Mr and Mrs S to consider changing the 
main mortgage to capital  repayment, even though it would  mean  changing the rate as well. 
Lenders are required by current regulations to ensure borrowers  with interest-only 
mortgages have  a credible repayment  strategy, and where they havent to encourage them 
to look in to ways of getting some or all of the mortgage on capital repayment. That Skipton 
tried to get Mr and Mrs S to focus on this during  the June 2018  phone conversation doesnt 
give me any reason  to think it tried to get them to change rates  on the main mortgage in 
2010 and/or  2011. 
What listening to those  recordings  has done  is to have shown me that Mr and Mrs Ss 
recollection of their content isnt entirely  accurate. I dont mean that unkindly and I 
emphasise that Im satisfied theyve brought this complaint  in good faith. But for me to find in 
Mr and Mrs Ss favour, Id have to be persuaded that their recollections of even older  events 
are more likely  (not just as likely) to be true than Skiptons recorded notes from the time.  For 
the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded thats the case.
Ref: DRN43120983my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Skipton  Building  Society. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4312098