K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy Tesco  Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has declined  to refund two 
transactions that debited his credit card account totalling £1,061.69. The transactions 
debited Mr Bs account between 27 April 2017 and the early  hours  of 28 April 2017.
Mr B has said he doesnt remember making the first transaction at all. He does remember 
making the second transaction, but he only did so because he was forced to by members of 
staff in the club he was in.  
Tesco has said it wont refund the transactions to Mr B as it thinks  he authorised them 
himself. 
background
Below are details of the transactions Mr B disputes,  as well as any other activity that I think 
is relevant to the outcome  of this complaint:
Date Time Type of transaction/activity Amoun
t27/04/201722:14Credit  card payment £494.65
28/04/201
702:57Credit  card payment £567.04
28/04/201
7c04.00 Mr B calls Tesco to report the transactions    
what Mr B has said
Mr B has told us he went on a stag-do to Poland with 16 of his friends. When  they arrived 
and settled in, they went  to watch  a football match in a bar. Soon after,  they went to a 
gentlemans club where  they paid for the stag to have a private  dance.  Mr B has said he 
intended to use cash to pay for the evening which he had on his person. He had no intention 
of using his credit card.
Mr B has said he doesnt really have any memory  of what  happened  after his first drink.  His 
memory becomes  blurry and he now believes this is due to his drink  having been spiked 
without him realising. Mr B has said he has no recollection of the first transaction at all. So 
he cant remember if he made  it himself  or not.
Mr B has said the next thing he remembers is being  woken up by force in the club around  
3am. He remembers someone  pinching him and later having bruises on his arms. He 
doesnt know if he had fallen asleep  or had been  drugged. The club was dark and there was 
no-one else around. Hes said he was surrounded  by two female managers and some of the 
bouncers from the club. The two female managers  had his belongings - including  his wallet 
and mobile phone. The managers entered his credit  card into a terminal  and told him to 
enter his PIN otherwise  they wouldnt return his items to him. Mr B protested but began to 
feel threatened and intimidated. Mr B feared for his safety so entered  his PIN into the 
terminal so he could  get back his belongings and leave the club.  
Once Mr B had entered his PIN, the two female managers  tried to put him back in a chair  
and give him a shot. Mr B refused and left the club.
Ref: DRN47339142After he left the club, Mr B called  Tesco to tell them what had happened. He asked Tesco for 
the details of the payments he made and asked them  to stop the payments leaving his 
account. Tesco told Mr B this wouldnt be possible  they had already left. Mr B also asked 
Tesco if he could dispute the transactions, but Tesco told Mr B this wouldnt be possible 
because he had authorised the transactions himself. Tesco  told Mr B to report the incident  to 
the police. 
The next day Mr B reported what had happened  to the Polish  police. And Mr B has provided  
us with a copy  of the incident report which was completed at the time. Hes said the Polish 
police told him they were  aware of what was happening in the club, but it was gang-related, 
and they couldnt do much  about it. Since returning to the UK, Mr B has read lots of reviews 
of the club online from other people saying  theyve been drugged  and then defrauded, in 
much the same way as him. Mr B says this supports his testimony that this is what 
happened to him.
Mr B feels  Tesco should  have identified the transactions as unusual, as they werent  in-line 
with his usual  spending patterns and stopped them from leaving his account. But Tesco  
doesnt agree.
Mr B also contacted Tesco to ask if he could raise a chargeback claim to get his funds back  
that way. Tesco told Mr B it wouldnt be possible to raise a chargeback  as his particular 
circumstances didnt  fit any of the chargeback criteria. 
what Tesco  has said 
Tesco has said they were  contacted by Mr B just before 4am UK time on 28 April 2017. Mr B 
explained what happened in the club and enquired  about the transactions that had left his 
account that evening  Mr B wasnt aware of the value of the payments hed made. It was at 
this point Tesco informed  Mr B about the two transactions that had left his account. Mr B 
confirmed he had no memory at all of the first transaction and said hed been forced to do 
the second. Mr B asked  if Tesco  could block the transactions, but Tesco  was unable  to do so 
as theyd already  left his account.
Mr B called Tesco a second time later the same morning where he went over the 
circumstances the night before again. During  this call Mr B advises that his drink may have 
been spiked.
Following its investigation,  Tesco said it wouldnt  refund the transactions  as it thought it was 
more likely than not that he had authorised the first transaction himself and hed admitted 
authorising the second, albeit under duress,  using  his genuine  card and entering his PIN. 
Tesco also said it couldnt raise  a chargeback in the circumstances provided by Mr B. 
Unhappy with Tescos  response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  In summary, he felt unable  
to conclude that the transactions  were made fraudulently, and he was satisfied Mr B had 
authorised the transactions himself.
Mr B didnt agree. He said there  was no evidence he was in possession of his card at the 
time of the first transaction and during the second  transaction, he didnt put the card in the 
terminal himself.  He also said the transactions shouldve been picked up as unusual by 
Tesco and blocked. 
Ref: DRN47339143Finally, he said it was clear he protested making,  at least  the second  transaction, and 
therefore he could  not be considered to have consented to the transactions.  He asked for 
the investigators answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
Relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs  
2009). They explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if the 
payer (in this case Mr B) has consented  to it. 
The payment service provider (in this case Tesco) must  show  the payment was 
authenticated. But its not enough for Tesco to simply  rely on the fact that the card and PIN 
were used, that doesnt necessarily mean  that the payment was authorised  by the account  
holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because, generally speaking,  
Mr B will be liable for payments he has authorised and Tesco  will be liable for unauthorised 
payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into account:  relevant law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having 
taken all of the above into account, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Tesco to refund the two transactions  and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The starting point  in law here is that a bank will generally be liable for unauthorised 
transactions. But a bank  isnt generally responsible for transactions  which the consumer 
authorises. 
These sections of the PSRs are not intented  to protect consumers who enter into 
agreements they later regret, or transactions which represent poor value or are brought  
about through persuasion  or undue pressure.
were the transactions made by Mr B.
Authentication is the procedure that allows  the bank to verify the identity of the consumer. 
This usually  includes  the use of the customers personalised security details  such as the 
consumers genuine  card being  presented and the entering of their PIN.
In this particular  case, Tescos electronic  records have shown me that Mr BS genuine card 
was presented (its internal chip was read) and his genuine PIN was entered  to authenticate 
Ref: DRN47339144both payments. Mr B has also confirmed  that he remembers using the genuine card and 
entering his genuine PIN for, at least, the second transaction.
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied both of the payments that left Mr Bs 
account were authenticated and made by Mr Bs card being presented and him entering his 
PIN each  time. And so the next thing  I need to consider  is whether Mr B consented to the 
transactions leaving his account. 
the first transaction
Mr B says he cant remember  whether  he made the first transaction  himself or not  his 
memory becomes  blurry after his first drink and he doesnt really remember  anything after 
that. So, Ive had to consider what I think is most likely to have happened given all of the 
evidence Ive been provided  with. 
Tescos electronic records confirm that Mr Bs genuine card was presented, and his PIN was 
entered correctly  - there  were no incorrect PIN attempts before the transaction in dispute  
took place. Theres  also been no suggestion that Mr Bs card had been taken out of his 
possession at this point  Mr B has said himself that he cant  remember.  
Ive thought about whether Mr B could have been over-looked  genuinely  entering  his PIN or 
whether he could have been  forced,  whilst drugged, to tell his PIN to someone else in order 
to make this transaction. But Im not persuaded that this is what mostly likely  happened in 
this case. 
I think that had someone in the club got hold of Mr Bs card and forced him to tell them  his 
PIN whilst under the influence, we would have  seen more transactions  on the account and 
potentially for higher  values. There would have been no reason to wait for five hours, until 
Mr B woke  up to ask him to enter  his PIN again.  The fraudsters wouldve already known the 
PIN and they wouldve  had access  to his card whilst asleep. But there were no attempts to 
use the card during the period Mr B says he was asleep. I also havent  seen  any evidence 
where his PIN could  have been  observed  - there were no other transactions  in this club 
before this first disputed  one. So, I think its more likely than not that at this point, Mr B was 
in possession of his card and he entered  his PIN himself - even if he doesnt remember  that 
now.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about  the club potentially deliberately leaving a long gap 
between the two transactions so Tesco wouldnt be able to flag them as suspicious. But that 
still doesnt explain why the club staff wouldve needed to wake  Mr B up and force him to 
enter his PIN to authenticate  the second transaction.  They could have simply waited for five 
hours and done  this themselves. And so, Im not persuaded that this is what  happened  here.
did Mr B consent to the payments?
In his submissions to this service, Mr B has raised  numerous arguments about what  would 
be considered  consent  in other scenarios. I have taken on board what  Mr B has said.  But I 
have to be clear that I am only looking into whether Mr B can be considered to have 
consented to the transactions  under the PSRs 2009 and not in any other context. And I must 
stress that consenting  to a payment transaction under the PSRs is different to the criminal 
Ref: DRN47339145legal tests surrounding consent  more  generally. The question  I need to ask myself here is 
whether Mr B consented to the payment transactions  under the PSRs 2009.
Under the PSRs  a consumer will be considered to have consented to a payment transaction 
if they have consented to a payment leaving their account. Consent must be given in 
accordance with the procedure agreed  between Mr B and Tesco. And in this particular case, 
this means Mr B entering his PIN to give consent to allow a payment to leave his account.  
So effectively Mr B has given his consent  to the payment  transaction  leaving his account  if 
he entered his PIN into the merchants  terminal. Once consent was provided, Tesco  had an 
obligation to debit his account  and send the payment to the merchant.
the second transaction
It isnt in dispute that Mr B entered his PIN to authorise the second transaction. He told both 
Tesco and us that he did. But the crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he only entered his PIN 
under duress. I have  no reason  to doubt anything that Mr B has told our service about  what 
happened at the time.  And whilst I have a lot of sympathy for Mr B and the situation he found  
himself in, our role isnt to decide  whether Mr B wouldnt, under normal circumstances, have 
carried out the transaction. I can only consider whether Mr B gave valid consent to the 
transaction as defined  under the PSRs 2009,  which entitles the bank to debit his account.
Under Reg 55, a payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the 
payer only if the payer has given its consent  to the execution  of the payment 
transaction.
The payer only needs to consent  to the execution  of the payment. So, as long as Mr B had 
sufficient capacity to consent to the payment transaction, the transaction  must be considered  
as authorised. And, here there isnt really any dispute that Mr B had capacity to give his 
consent to payment transactions, in the sense that, for example, he was able to enter his 
PIN. The dispute here is that Mr B says he only gave  consent under duress. Although  Mr B 
was placed in extremely difficult position,  this did not deprive him of the ability to give 
consent to the payment transaction  which  he ultimately did. And so, Im satisfied the 
transaction was authorised for the purposes  of the PSRs. Mr B may have a dispute  directly 
with the nightclub if he feels he was overcharged or duped in some  way but that doesnt  
mean Tesco is liable to refund those transactions. 
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs account, Tesco has an obligation to debit his 
account if certain actions  had been taken, as they were here, and there would  have been  no 
way Tesco  couldve known that Mr B was unhappy  with the payment transaction  and so I 
dont think Tesco did anything wrong  when debiting the account. 
The dispute  here is between Mr B and the club he was in. But the contracts he may or may 
not have entered into with club are not for me to decide. Im looking at the relationship 
between Mr B and Tesco  and Im satisified  Tesco  was entitiled to debit Mr Bs account  for 
the transactions he later disputed. And I dont  think Tesco has done anything wrong when 
not offering Mr B a refund. 
Tesco has a duty to follow its customers instructions. There will only be limited 
circumstances that a bank will not do this or that we might think  that it was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to depart from this. But in this particular case, Tesco  could 
not have been aware  of the situation Mr B had found himself in. And Im not persuaded there 
Ref: DRN47339146was anything that ought to have put Tesco on alert that he was being scammed  or at risk of 
financial harm. 
I have considered what Mr B has told me about  the transactions being  of high value and in 
quick succession. However, I dont think the payments in question wouldve  stood  out as 
unusal to Tesco.  I dont think transactions for c£500  would be considered  of particularly high 
value and the transactions themselves are made over five hours  apart. It isnt unsual for 
credit cards to be used for larger payments and purchases. And so I dont  think there was 
anything more that Tesco couldve done.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments Mr B has raised surrounding Tesco  potentially  
raising a chargeback claim. But I agree with Tesco that a chargeback  isnt the correct  vehicle 
for Mr B to get his money back  here.  Chargeback claims generally relate to a contract  and it 
doesnt appear there is a contract dispute  here  Mr B isnt alleging that he paid for 
something that he did not receive. And so, I wouldnt have  thought it reasonable for Tesco to 
have raised a chargeback on behalf  of Mr B in this scenario. 
my final decision
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr B, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4733914