K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns the advice he received from Kim Bayliss Wealth  Management 
Limited (KB) in 2013 to switch existing pensions to a new pension arrangement with LV. 
He questions whether  this was appropriate  and in his best interests.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October  2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that I was not intending to uphold  the 
complaint.
KB accepted the provisional decision.
Mr H did not accept the provisional decision. In summary he:
Said he was not intent  on switching his pension for better  servicing  this was 
incorrect reasoning  which the adviser used when justifying the multiple  pension  
transfers/switches over the years.
Said he had access to an employer provided  pension scheme at the time, which KB 
ignored.
Said a desire  to use a DFM was not included  in the pension  transfer  report. He had 
never heard of the DFM until the adviser  told him of it. The recommendation to invest 
in the DFM came in a letter after the pension transfer report  was issued. It was not 
explained to him why he needed a DFM and he suffered  increased  charges because 
of it.
Said his attitude  to risk has been  assessed  incorrectly and there is no evidence  it 
was assessed  at the time  his attitude to risk has always  been medium   not 
Capital Growth. That grading may have been  used  to justify the DFM.
Said the charges were  not highlighted by KB as they have been  on submissions to 
this service. 
Said the performance of the DFM did not match the performance of the previous 
Scottish Widows  pension. He doesnt believe he achieved more than 20% growth as 
KB has stated. He said that the value of his pension wasnt  worth transferring to a 
DFM. 
Said that the DFM  had agreed to reduce its management fee for KB clients  
probably on the basis that KB had agreed to transfer a number of his clients.  He 
queries why this was. 
Overall said that KB was motivated in transferring his pension  for his own interests  
and the situation was manufactured and documents fabricated  in order to justify a 
transfer and transfers when  that was not appropriate. 
Ref: DRN42665872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully what Mr H has said about the transfer, particularly the charges, 
desire (or not) for the DFM approach, attitude  to risk, behaviour  of the adviser  and motivation 
for the pension switch.  However, having  done so, I remain of the view that the evidence 
does not support a finding that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H has disputed the accuracy of a significant amount of statements or records  that were 
made at the time. However,  as I discussed  in the provisional decision, the report  issued by 
KB in 2013 did set out in some detail  why the switch  was taking place. It included a 
description of the risk that was acceptable, that a DFM was the agreed approach and it 
contained details  of the charges. 
With respect to charges,  I did not assume that these  were highlighted as submitted to this 
service. I thought that was more likely undertaken by KB in response to the complaint, to 
signal where charges  were set out. I considered that the charges were  set out and discussed 
in the recommendation report, and that here was no significant difference  between the 
existing charges and new charges to be incurred.  So I did not believe Mr H had been 
materially disadvantaged in this respect.  
Whilst I appreciate that Mr H says he had no need  for a DFM and this was only presented  to 
him when  he came  to make the switch,  the fact that a DFM was to be used was included in 
the March 2013 report.  It may well be that this was suggested as an option the adviser would 
recommend but the documentary evidence is that it was discussed  and agreed to take this 
route for the advantages it might  bring.  That Mr H may have also recommended other clients  
use the DFM model and that he might have negotiated lower fees does not mean  that the 
advice given to Mr H was unsuitable or that he was guided to this route even  though it was 
not appropriate. In terms of the value of the funds transferred to the DFM, I dont believe  
they were too low to make  this approach suitable. There is no reason why the DFM could not 
have provided  the necessary management  and diversification for that sum of money.
In terms of investment  performance, this is not a relevant factor  when assessing  the 
suitability of the advice. Future  investment performance cannot be known at outset and 
hindsight should  not be used. That the performance  of the DFM may not have been equal to 
that of the previous scheme  does not establish  that the switch was unsuitable. Conversely  if 
the DFMs performance was in excess of the previous scheme that would not justify its 
suitability on its own. I appreciate that Mr H might  have highlighted this to show that KBs 
statements about performance were not correct. But investment performance is not 
materially relevant to my findings.
I have noted that Mr H says he did have access to an employer pension scheme at the time. 
But the documentation  refers at several points to KBs understanding  that this was not 
available, only that the employer would  pay a sum to Mr Hs pension.  Whilst I understand 
that Mr H trusted the adviser and signed  documents that were put on front of him, I would 
have thought that what was set out, particularly in the report of March 2013,  would have 
been questioned at the time if incorrect. 
In terms of attitude of risk, the acceptable  level of risk was set out at the time, including a 
description of the risk level.  I cannot assume  that was incorrect and Mr H did have a history 
Ref: DRN42665873of investing in risk based funds through his pension,  albeit they might have presented 
somewhat less risk than the DFM. The evidence does not suggest that the risks of a DFM 
was unsuitable.  
In summary  I dont believe this recommendation was unsuitable based on the evidence, for 
the reasons discussed in this decision and my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I do not currently intend to uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN42665874copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns  the advice  he received from Kim Bayliss Wealth Management Limited (KB) 
in 2013 to switch existing pensions  to a new pension  arrangement with LV. He questions whether this 
was appropriate and in his best interests. 
 
background
Mr H complained to KB but it did not uphold the complaint. It said Mr Hs requirement was to switch 
and consolidate the existing pensions into one new plan to make servicing and monitoring easier. It 
said Mr H had liked the idea of having someone actively managing his pension funds and agreed that 
using a Discretionary  Fund Management (DFM) approach would be a good idea. It said Mr H was 
shown all the costs of doing  so and was given  a comparison  setting out the various charges.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was considered  by an investigator. The investigator 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. He did not believe that Mr H had been supplied with accurate  
information about the charges of the new pension as compared with the charges for his existing 
schemes. And he did not believe that Mr H had need of the DFM approach that was recommended. 
KB did not agree and said that all the charges were clearly set out  including in the suitability report 
that was issued. Furthermore, the charges were reasonable. It said that Mr H wanted to consolidate 
his pensions for ease of management and liked the idea of DFM. It thought its advice was 
appropriate. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It is my understanding  that there were three switches of money purchase pensions to a new pension 
with LV at this time; a Scottish Widows personal pension  that had been in force since 2007/08, a 
HSBC Stakeholder pension policy and a Legal & General Group Stakeholder pension policy. By far 
the largest in terms  of value was the Scottish Widows policy.
A Fact Find dated February 2013 records that Mr H earned £65,000  a year and had £5,000 in a bank 
account. No other investments or assets are listed apart from his home  and its contents. Some notes  
were made at the time: 
You have three pension plans and after discussing the issues/costs and benefits with you are keen to 
move them all into one new plan to make the servicing and monitoring of them easier.  Your new 
employer does  not offer a Company pension and you are currently  negotiating for him to pay 10% of 
your salary into your own scheme. You have  a capital  growth atr and are looking to retire at age 65. 
You now wish to Invest through a DFM  to get a more hands on approach  to the way your money is 
invested. 
I have also seen  a Replacement Contract form which  sets out that, based on certain  assumed 
growth rates, the value will be greater  at age 65 if the pensions are transferred  to  LV. The form 
records that Mr H was advised to cancel (his current plans) and this was because:
You have three paid up pension plans and are now keen to take more control and have the funds in 
one place, manned  by a DFM and be able to monitor  them  and follow  the value online. This is not 
possible with any of your existing  plans.
Ref: DRN42665875There is also a comparison  of charges  between the existing and suggested new pension schemes  
included. It is stated  that the annual charges will be lower  under the new plan and, the main benefits 
are that your investments will be managed by a DFM.
The charges for the Scottish Widows scheme were stated to be about £1,400 a year and the LV 
charges about £1,000. However there was an ongoing adviser charge of nearly £500 per year for the 
new plan as well as a one off initial  adviser  charge of nearly £3,000.  
  
There is record of a letter  dated 12 March 2013 from the adviser to Mr H which enclosed a report  
setting out his recommendations. That letter set out that Mr Hs pensions  had been reviewed   those 
with Legal & General, HSBC and Scottish Widows. It is said that Mr H would  like to investigate  a 
pension switch which would provide greater flexibility,  investment choices which would meet  his 
circumstances and improved management and performance.  It is set out that Mr H was not currently 
a member of a company  pension scheme. 
Mr Hs attitude  to risk was described as:
We established that your attitude to risk could  realistically be described  as Capital Growth.  The 
Capital Growth  Investor is willing to accept high risk and chance  of loss in order to achieve higher 
returns on his or her investment. Significant losses over an extended period may prompt  the Capital  
Growth Investor to shift to a less risky investment.  The following  criteria may help to ensure that such  
investors have the best chance of achieving  these goals: The portfolio  should  have at least  an 
approximately 80 percent chance of achieving  a nonnegative return  over a six- to nine-year holding  
period.
This is the second highest of the available  risk gradings.
The adviser  recommended that Mr H switch his pensions  to LV. He said:
You have three pension plans and after discussing the issues/costs and benefits you are keen to 
move them all into one new plan to make the servicing and monitoring of them easier.  Your new 
employer does  not offer a Company pension and you are currently  negotiating for him to pay 10% of 
your salary into your own scheme. You have  a capital
growth attitude to risk and are looking to retire at age 65. You now wish to invest  through  a
discretionary fund manager  (DFM) to get a more hands on approach to the way your money  is 
invested. This is not possible with any of your existing  plans. Your  existing plans  are with Legal  & 
General, HSBC and Scottish Widows
A DFM was recommended for the majority of the pension  funds  - where Mr Hs money  would be 
managed individually  according to his attitude  to risk. A small additional  sum was to be invested in a 
retail mainstream  fund investing in FTSE  equities.  
There was a section of the report that set out:
Comparison of costs and charges
As discussed, we carry out an analysis of all comparative costs and charges between your ceding 
pension plan and the pension plan recommended and these are shown below. Further information is 
available within the illustrations provided.
Old scheme total costs  £1,400.58
New scheme total costs £1,067.17 plus the annual adviser charge, currently £470.62
The overall  AMC/annual charges are lower  for the new plan.
The main benefits are that your investments  will be managed by a DFM.
Ref: DRN42665876With regards to the initial  charge and annual  adviser fee that have been charged, in this case you 
accept these  charges and were willing to pay them knowing that in the long run you will have peace of 
mind with regards to your investments and the benefit of regular reviews with myself and of having  a 
DFM look after the funds with the potential of adding funds in the future  and provide further 
consolidation.
There followed a table which,  using  the same assumed future growth  rates for all schemes, showed 
significantly higher returns from the LV pension. 
 
There was also a section which set out adviser  charges:
Remuneration
During our meeting I explained the methods of how we charge for our advice, which are detailed in 
our keyfacts  about our services and costs disclosure document. Following this you decided to opt for 
remunerating us by way of adviser charging.
As agreed and detailed in our disclosure document and client  agreement, we will receive 3.0% initial  
adviser charge and 0.5% annual ongoing adviser charge based on the value of your investments. 
Based on your pension investment of £94,124.45, we will receive £2,823.73  initial adviser charge  and 
£470.62 annual  ongoing adviser charge.
Following our discussions, you were comfortable  that the overall costs represented  good value  for the 
level of service provided.
The evidence  is that the charges of the new LV and DFM  approach were less than that of the Scottish 
Widows scheme.   However that does not appear to include  the yearly  adviser  charge  the application  
of which would  make the overall benefit  of switching  (roughly) cost neutral. Bearing  that in mind it is 
not clear how the comparison of future returns showed that the return from the new pension would be 
higher (assuming  the same level of growth). The reasonable assumption would be that those 
projections did not include  the adviser  charge. Having  said that I note that KB has said that there was 
a 0.2% a year (of the fund value) adviser charge  under the Scottish Widows  policy. But even allowing 
for that the costs would be roughly similar. 
There were  also two small stakeholder pension schemes which seem  to have been grouped  together 
with the Scottish  Widows  scheme in terms of the comparisons.  I have not seen specific detail about 
those schemes but they are highly likely  to have  had lower charges than the Scottish Widows plan  
probably lower  that the new LV and DFM approach. Having said that, they were very modest  
seemingly about 10% of the value  of the pensions  switched. So I dont believe the charges  critical in 
that respect.
Given that the costs  were  about the same, the benefit of the switch distils in my view to the perceived 
benefits of the DFM approach  and consolidating  the pensions for ease of administration  and 
management. There is a benefit in having  all the value under one roof but that should not be 
outweighed by any other disadvantages such as costs. But, as I have said, I dont believe  there was 
any material  difference  in costs or disadvantage caused in that respect. In addition there was the 
recorded desire  to invest via a DFM  which  could  not be achieved via the existing pension schemes. 
What is documented quite  clearly is the desire to invest in that way - and I should  take note of that.   
In my view there was no material disadvantage to the pension switch and there were some  
advantages in terms of consolidation and accessing  the DFM  approach. Mr H may say that he had no 
particular need for the DFM  approach  but that is not what is documented. Given  that I do not 
believe, based on the evidence,  that I could say the advice was unsuitable or the pension switch was 
unsuitable. This is bearing in mind that the costs  and adviser charges were  set out clearly  in the 
advisers recommendation report.   
Ref: DRN42665877my provisional  decision
I do not currently intend  to uphold the complaint or make any award.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4266587