K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC is now pursuing her for a debt which  it 
previously agreed to write off.  
background
Miss G had an account with an overdraft  with Barclays. After falling into financial difficulties 
the account was closed  in 2018 with an outstanding balance of around £5,000. Miss G says 
she was told there  was no debt to be repaid  on the closed account. In January 2019 Miss G 
said Barclays contacted  her asking for the debt to be repaid so she made  a complaint. 
On 9 January  2019 Barclays sent a final response  saying it didnt agree to write off her debt 
in full. It said it sent Miss G letters making her aware of the outstanding debt. And Miss G 
needed to contact its recoveries department to arrange a repayment plan or the account 
would be closed. 
Unhappy with this response Miss G asked this service to look into her complaint.  She said 
Barclays told her over the phone the debt would be written off and there was no need for her 
to repay  it. Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold  it. She said 
there was no evidence of any telephone conversations  where  it agreed  the debt would be 
written off. And Barclays  had contacted Miss G about the outstanding debt asking her to 
contact it. 
Miss G didnt  agree with the investigator. She said she didnt receive the letters and was told 
verbally there was no debt left. So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons. I know Miss G has found 
this very stressful and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
In cases which involve  financial  difficulties this service would expect the bank to treat Miss G 
fairly. This can involve  helping Miss G with her debt and setting up affordable  repayment  
plans. Having reviewed  the evidence, I dont  think Barclays has treated Miss G unfairly. 
To be clear, Barclays doesnt have  to agree to write off this debt. Miss G has had benefit  of 
the funds so it wasnt unfair for Barclays to keep  the account open and review  it every three 
months. I also dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to wait and see if Miss Gs 
circumstances changed and an affordable repayment plan could be put in place. So 
Barclays reviewing the account to see if she was ever in a position to pay the outstanding 
debt off isnt inherently  unfair. 
Miss G says Barclays  agreed to write this debt off over the phone. But she hasnt provided 
any information on when  she spoke to Barclays about the debt or when  it was agreed to be 
Ref: DRN43690652written off. Barclays  hasnt been  able to provide call recordings it had with Miss G about the 
debt. But I agree with the investigator that if a conversation had taken place about writing  off 
the debt I would expect  on balance  - there would be a call note along with follow  up 
correspondence mentioning this agreement. And there is nothing  in the call notes provided 
by Barclays which show a write off was discussed  or agreed.  Only that Miss G couldnt make  
any payments towards the outstanding debt.  
The recoveries notes  show Barclays corresponding with Miss G by letter.  And Im satisfied 
Barclays sent letters to Miss G in January 2018  and April 2018 which mention Miss Gs offer 
to make a payment  towards the debt. The letter in April 2018 then says the account  had 
been closed with the debt still needing to be repaid. The letters were correctly  addressed  to 
Miss G and refer her to debt advice charities and other free advice organisations for help, 
which is what we would  expect Barclays to do in these circumstances. 
So, Im satisfied  on balance  Barclays didnt agree  to write off Miss Gs outstanding debt. 
And that it has treated her fairly by asking her to repay it.  
Miss G mentioned in her complaint about  having  to take an overdraft on a premier account  
with Barclays instead of a regular account. The investigator has confirmed with Miss G this 
part of her complaint  is not something  we can deal with as Miss G didnt bring  it to us within  
the six month timeframe  Barclays  gave  her in its final response   dated 31 January 2017. So 
I wont comment on that part of the complaint here. If she wants this to be considered further  
she will have  to raise this aspect as a separate complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4369065