K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the total loss settlement Highway Insurance Company  Limited  
paid him when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr S made a claim under  his car insurance  policy with Highway in February 2018. It 
declared Mr Ss car a total loss due to fire. 
Highway decided a market valuation for Mr Ss car of £2,450. This included extras for the 
make and model of his car based  on the main motor trade guides. 
Our investigator thought Highway had settled  Mr Ss claim  reasonably. Mr S didnt agree. So 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ss policy  says the most it will pay in the event of a total loss is the market  value of his 
car. We dont decide a market value. But we can look at whether an insurer  reached  a 
valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. Highway used an approach  which we find is 
a reliable way to decide a market value. The main motor trade guides provided average  
valuations for a car based on likely selling prices for the same  make,  model, condition, 
mileage and age for the month  of loss. Highway used these guides to decide  a market value 
for Mr Ss car.
Two of the main motor trade guides were able to provide valuations of £1,974 and £2,100. 
As Mr Ss car had additional extras (a fridge,  seat massager, remote control TV and folding 
table), Highway added £450  to its valuation of £2,000. 
Mr Ss car was 16 years old. Sometimes  extras add value to a second  hand car, sometimes  
they dont. I think Highway overall reached a market  value  for Mr Ss car in a fair and 
reasonable way. The sum of £2,450 is within the range  of the motor trade guides, and so in 
line with the policy.  
Adverts tend to be a starting point to negotiate  a price downward.  And so we dont tend to 
find adverts as reliable as the motor trade guides. 
Mr S says he believes the mileage on his car was around £90,000. However,  the MOT 
history online shows it was last recorded in February 2017 at just under £158,000 miles. So 
from the information available to Highway,  I think it used a fair mileage  figure of £160,000 in 
February 2018.
I think Highway paid a fair market  value to settle Mr Ss total loss claim. So I dont think it 
needs to do anymore. 
Ref: DRN42740952my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4274095