K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  was mis-sold to him and that its not been of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Mr H took receipt of a new car in March 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS. Shortly  after taking  receipt  of the car he experienced some  financial 
difficulties and asked  MBFS  if he could return the car to them.  They explained the various 
options that were  available to him including voluntary termination and voluntary surrender. 
But Mr H was disappointed with their response as he noted that all of those options had 
significant costs  associated with them. He said hed been encouraged to take out a hire 
purchase agreement  because the dealership had told him hed be able to handback  the car 
if he no longer wanted  it. He explained  that if hed known about the associated costs  he 
would not have taken out the deal.
So he complained to MBFS but they didnt uphold his complaint so he referred it to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think MBFS had been  unreasonable. She understood  that the 
dealership had explained he could  hand the car back in a hire purchase  arrangement  but 
she thought that was true. She said the finance agreement provided  further  detail on what 
would be necessary to hand back the car and explained that the business would be entitled 
to half the amount payable under the agreement.
She understood that Mr H was also complaining that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
She discussed this with Mr H and the dealership and evidence  was provided that a repair  
had been completed to a limit switch on the drivers seat in March 2019 and that the car had 
also been returned for an alarm fault in June 2019. The fault wasnt  replicated but a software 
update was completed. The adjudicator didnt think there was sufficient evidence that the car 
had been faulty when  it was supplied to Mr H which was the point MBFS were responsible 
for its quality. She therefore didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong or needed to take 
any further action.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and he therefore  asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN40472022board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
I can understand Mr Hs frustration that MBFS have refused to allow him to return the car to 
them without him incurring significant charges. But I dont think it would be fair to say that 
they or the dealership, who were  their agents  in the negotiation, have done anything  wrong.  
Under some car finance arrangements its not possible to hand  the car back during the 
contractual term. But hire purchase agreements do allow this. The finance company cant  
simply allow consumers to return their cars as, if they did that, theyd probably incur  costs 
that they would not be able to recover, such as depreciation and administration.
So the terms under which  Mr H was able to return the car were set out in the finance 
agreement he signed and these, as Ive explained  in the background information, explained 
the costs involved. 
So I dont  think theres evidence this car has been  mis-sold.
Mr H also complains about  the quality of his car. The relevant law says, amongst other 
things, that the car should have  been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then 
MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances.  
This was a new car so I wouldnt expect it to have  any problems when  it was supplied. The 
first corroborated faults with the car were recorded in March  2019 when a limit switch  was 
replaced on the drivers  seat. That was about  six months after Mr H had taken receipt of the 
car and Im not persuaded there  is sufficient  evidence  that it was faulty  or developing a fault 
at the point of supply,  when MBFS were responsible for the cars quality. I think  its likely that 
electronic components like limit switches fail rapidly  so I think its more  likely this was a more 
recent failure.
Mr H also returned the car for attention to the alarm  system in June 2019. But I note that the 
dealership werent  able to replicate the problem and even if they were I dont think  it would  
be fair to suggest that was a problem  that had been  developing from the start. I think it would 
have been likely to have occurred earlier if that was the case.
So whilst I sympathise  with Mr Hs situation Im afraid I dont  think  theres evidence here that 
MBFS have done  anything wrong  and Im not asking them  to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN40472023my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4047202