K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (HBOS)  mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs L for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £700 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim. The benefit was split equally 
between Mr and Mrs L on a 50/50 basis. At the time, it cost £35.42 a month. 
At the time,  Mr L has told us he was employed  as a Finisher. He has told us he was entitled  
to at least one months sick pay if he was unable to work. And that he was entitled  to 
redundancy pay. Mr L has said he had a medical condition  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs L was employed in sales. She has told us she was entitled  to at least one months sick 
pay should she be unable  to work.   And that she was entitled to redundancy pay and death 
in service benefit. Mrs L has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  She also 
says she was pregnant.  
HBOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 1998  and 
Mr and Mrs L took out a further advance in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
HBOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HBOS should  have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HBOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs L and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN43053442The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs L arranged a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN43053443Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HBOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HBOS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HBOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HBOS gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN43053444-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs L 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and HBOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
HBOS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
HBOS has provided copies of both the mortgage application form and the separate PPI 
application form that were  completed during the meeting. The mortgage application form has 
a section which is headed Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  Insurance.  This gives a 
brief explanation of what  the PPI covered and required a signature to say the consumer  
would like to take advantage of the Mortgage  Repayment Insurance. I can see from Mr 
and Mrs Ls form that they have  both signed.
In addition, a separate  application  form had to be completed for the PPI and again I can see 
both Mr and Mrs S have signed  to agree  to make the application for the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HBOS provide advice?
Both HBOS and Mr and Mrs L agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  HBOS had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HBOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs L. The adviser had information about  some  of Mr and Mrs Ls financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And further  information  was captured as 
part of the PPI application form. This raised  some questions about  Mr and Mrs Ls wider  
circumstances such as any health  issues, but I dont  think HBOS  did enough to ensure the 
PPI was suitable. For example, theres not enough  evidence to indicate whether HBOS  
understood the extent to which Mr and Mrs L had a need for cover by asking them about 
their existing means.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HBOS  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded HBOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HBOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN43053445-Both Mr and Mrs L met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ls ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either Mr and Mrs L were not working for an extended period  of time  even allowing 
for the redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits they say they would have  been  
entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L, and 
the cost and benefit were clearly set out on the application form. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ls employment or occupation  which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr 
L has told us about a medical condition he had. But from what Mr L has said it was 
something he suffered  from a few years prior to taking the policy out. There  is 
nothing to suggest that this was an ongoing condition and Mr L has said the condition 
didnt really affect his day to day life. So I dont think Mr Ls condition was caught by 
the exclusions of cover  it wasnt wrong for HBOS to have recommended the policy.
Mrs L has told us that she was pregnant when the policy was sold. I dont know  
whether she disclosed  this to the advisor  but in any event she was taking  on a 
long-term mortgage with serious consequences  if she and Mr L were unable  to meet  
the repayments.  The policy does exclude pregnancy related conditions. Although 
Mrs L may not have  needed accident and sickness  cover for any period of time she 
took maternity leave,  she would have still been  covered for unemployment so I still 
think there was some  value in the cover and I dont think  it was wrong for HBOS to 
have recommended it. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr or Mrs L be disabled  or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, including their employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs L be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HBOS gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HBOS 
was recommending them and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN43053446Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs L were  unable  to work  through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and were 
given clear information about the costs and benefit. I have reached this conclusion  because 
as the cost and benefit was set out in the application form, I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium was.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HBOS gave sufficient 
information the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L Im not persuaded 
HBOS did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HBOS gave Mr and Mrs L all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HBOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did HBOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HBOS  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs L. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs L suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
Ref: DRN43053447whether or not Mr and Mrs L would have still taken  out the policy,  had HBOS done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded HBOS took the steps it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs L have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HBOS had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs L would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HBOS advised  them  that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs L were  given about the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any. sickness, disease,  condition or injury  
which Mr and Mrs L knew about or should  have  known about or for which  hed seen 
a doctor  about  in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy  and which recurred  
within 24 months of the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs L werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs L be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
Ref: DRN43053448The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. 
Although Mr L says he had a medical  condition when the PPI was taken, from what Mr L has 
said it was something he suffered from a few years prior to taking the policy  out. There  is 
nothing to suggest that this was an ongoing condition  and nothing  to indicate  it was 
something that he had suffered with or that he had seen a doctor about in the 12 months 
prior to the sale. Mr L has said the condition didnt really affect his day to day life - and I dont 
think it would  have  been uppermost in Mr Ls mind as the main reason he might be likely  to 
have to take time off in the future. So, I dont think better information about  this exclusion 
would have put him off agreeing to it. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he or Mrs L wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy 
out.
Notwithstanding what I said above  - I accept back pain and mental health conditions  are 
common problems and the steps required to make a disability claim for these conditions 
were more onerous than Mr and Mrs L might  reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they 
would have expected to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some 
evidence to support  that claim.  And while this limitation might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking out the policy, Mr 
and Mrs L, in their circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs L had known  they could only claim for disability if they were  not only unable to 
do their job or any similar job but also unable to do any job which  in the insurers view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr and 
Mrs Ls circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out 
the cover.
HBOS may not have  told Mr and Mrs L that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12 
month period.  This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs L would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs L would still have thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs L be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
Ref: DRN43053449could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Ls sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs L were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs L found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HBOS should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN430534410Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think HBOS  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HBOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why HBOS  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HBOS gave Mr and Mrs L, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find HBOS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that HBOS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
 
Mr and Mrs L have also raised  some concerns about a claim made   unhappy  with how 
much was paid out and for how long. Paying out half the mortgage was in line with how the 
policy was set up (split equally between Mr and Mrs L), so thats what  I wouldve expected. 
But I cant comment why Mr and Mrs L say the claim was only limited  to three months.  If this 
was different to their understanding  of how the policy worked  Mr and Mrs L could consider 
making a separate complaint to the insurer  but I cant comment  on whether the complaint 
can be considered  given the date of the claim.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4305344