K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H took out three  joint packaged  bank accounts (PBAs) with TSB Bank Plc (TSB) 
from September 2001 for which they were charged  monthly fees. They say they were mis-
sold.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the following accounts  with TSB:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current 1995 No
Gold September 2001 Yes
Platinum January 2006 Yes
Premier January 2007 Yes
Mr and Mrs H say they tried to make a claim on the travel policy that came  with their 
accounts in 2019 and their claim was turned down because Mrs H had a pre-existing 
medical condition  (pemc).  They say they werent  advised by TSB about  pemcs when they 
took out their accounts.
TSB has agreed to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint about  the Gold  account and refund the fees 
with interest. But they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the Platinum and 
Premier accounts.
Our adjudicator upheld  their complaint about the Platinum  and Premier  accounts as well, but 
TSB disagreed so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  about the Platinum and Premier accounts 
and Ill explain why.
TSB has said that it recommended both accounts  to Mr and Mrs H and advised them to take 
them out. This means that TSB was required to check that the accounts were suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H say they had a good relationship with TSB and both parties  agree that a 
substantial discussion took place over both sales. TSB says that it told Mr and Mrs H about 
pemcs and that they should have known  enough  to tell it that Mrs H had had a heart  
condition for many years. Mr and Mrs H say that TSB did not tell them  about pemcs.
Mr and Mrs H had made a medical claim on the travel insurance  policy  in 2006,  and the 
insurer had paid out. So I think its more likely than not that they wouldve expected  to be 
covered by their policy later. 
Ref: DRN47385162It was TSBs responsibility in the advised sales to specifically draw Mr and Mrs Hs attention 
to the pemc  terms and conditions and ensure the travel insurance was suitable  for them.  I 
think its more likely  than not that TSB did not do so sufficiently  well. I say this because  Ive 
found Mr and Mrs Hs testimony to be clear and consistent that they werent told. I think  its 
very unlikely  that they would have bought a travel  insurance policy  that they knew didnt 
cover them. And they didnt know in 2019  or Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have gone to significant  
lengths to claim on the policy.
TSB has put forward examples of the forms that would have been filled in by Mr and Mrs H 
and the information booklet they would have  received. But I think  its more likely than not that 
they would  have relied on what  TSB said to them rather  than any literature they received. 
TSB also says that Mr and Mrs H used some  of the benefits. But the packaged bank  
accounts were expensive and Mr and Mrs H were unable to use one of the key components 
of the products. 
So, my finding  is that Mr and Mrs H have lost out due to TSBs insufficient advice.
TSB has already agreed to refund the premiums for the Gold account with interest.  The 
additional steps I require them to take are shown below.
putting things right
I require TSB Bank Plc to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the Platinum and Premier  
accounts.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs H have saved money  because of a better  rate on their overdraft by having 
the Platinum or Premier account and TSB can show exactly  how much  Mr and Mrs H 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays them  but only after it has 
calculated the two points above.  TSB must explain clearly and simply to Mr and Mrs H 
how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  TSB to take off tax from this interest.  TSB must give Mr and Mrs H 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the Platinum and 
Premier accounts and require TSB Bank Plc to put things right as Ive described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Ref: DRN47385163Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4738516