K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2000. 
Mr and Mrs W applied  for the PPI at a meeting.
When Mr and Mrs W complained to B&B that the policy was mis-sold, B&B agreed the policy  
wasnt right for Mrs W and offered to refund Mr and Mrs W some  of the premiums they paid. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept B&Bs offer as they considered the whole PPI policy was mis-
sold. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W referred  the complaint to our service.
More than one adjudicator  has looked  at this complaint  while it has been  with our service.  
The latest adjudicator to review the complaint considered that the complaint  should be 
upheld in full. As B&B had already said the PPI wasnt right for Mrs W the adjudicator looked 
at Mr Ws circumstances. She thought  that as Mr W had a pre-existing medical condition,  he 
couldnt claim for everything  he thought  the policy provided protection for. So the policy 
wasnt right for Mr W. Because  of this, she recommended B&B refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W had paid towards the PPI.
B&B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I would like to clarify  that as B&B have already agreed the policy was mis-sold to Mrs W, I 
will focus on the sale of the policy in light of Mr Ws circumstances.
did B&B make a recommendation for the PPI?
When a business  makes a recommendation it has to ensure the product it recommends is 
right for the consumer.  And it needs to point out to a consumer where  the policy might not be 
right. This allows the consumer to make  a fully informed decision as to whether they wish to 
proceed with any recommendation.
B&B says it didnt go so far as to make a formal  recommendation to Mr and Mrs W. It says it 
didnt assess Mr and Mrs Ws particular circumstances and ability  to make their repayments  
in the event they couldnt work because of an accident or sickness and subsequently provide  
a recommendation  to take out the PPI. 
Ref: DRN43954382When a business  doesnt make a recommendation it has to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy, so a consumer can make  up their own mind as to 
whether to take out the policy.
Our adjudicator, after considering the evidence and paperwork, thought it was unclear as to 
whether advice was given  or not. But ultimately  she didnt think  it made a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint.  In either  scenario, whether  B&B made a recommendation or 
provided information to Mr and Mrs W, she concluded the complaint should be upheld. 
Our adjudicator considered if B&B had made a recommendation for the PPI  it was an 
unsuitable one. And if B&B didnt recommend the policy and provided information  only  she 
considered the information wasnt clear. Had it been, given Mr Ws circumstances and pre-
existing medical condition, she thought it was unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would have taken 
out the PPI. 
Having carefully considered this, I agree with our adjudicator and for the same reasons. I 
dont think it makes a material difference to the outcome of the complaint whether  B&B 
recommended the policy  or provided  information  to Mr and Mrs W.
Overall, whether Mr and Mrs W were advised or not  I dont think they would have taken out 
the PPI given Mr Ws pre-existing  medical condition. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws pre-existing medical condition
Mr W had an operation  in 1995/1996. This is really  important.  With most PPI policies, as is 
the case here, there are exclusions and/or limitations around pre-existing medical conditions.
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of the policy to see whether Mr Ws pre-existing 
medical condition  would  have been excluded/limited under the PPI policy should he have 
needed to claim and also whether it would have affected his decision to take out the PPI.
The terms of the policy state:
General Exclusions
No benefit will be paid for disability or unemployment resulting from:
any sickness, disease,  condition  or injury  which  you knew  or should have known 
about or for which  you received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor 
during the 12 months before the start date. We will, however, pay benefit  if you 
have been insured  under  your policy continuously for two years or more and had 
two consecutive years without medical  treatment or medical  advice for that injury  
or illness or any underlying or directly attributable medical condition.
Given Mr Ws existing  condition, I think he is caught  by this term. If Mr W was off work 
because of his condition, and was to submit a claim, then his condition  would have been 
treated as a condition  that he knew or should  have known about. As he would have been 
caught under the first part of the term, it meant that a limitation would have applied to Mr W 
when claiming  for that condition. The limitation is set out within the second part of the term.
Ref: DRN43954383The term goes on to say We will, however, pay benefit if you have been insured under your 
policy continuously for two years  or more and had two consecutive years  without medical  
treatment or medical advice for that injury. So Mr W could  potentially,  if his condition  
prevented him from working, claim under the policy. But the earliest Mr W could do this 
would be after two years.  The insurance  was protecting Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage.  Mr Ws 
pre-existing condition would have most likely been the reason why he might have needed to 
claim. I think  not being able to claim for that condition for two years would have mattered to 
Mr W. Its an important limitation,  and restricts when Mr W could claim.
Having looked  at the application form and the policy terms I dont think the exclusion and 
limitation is sufficiently highlighted given its importance.
So, I dont think,  whether  advice was given or not, Mr W would  have taken out the PPI had 
this exclusion and limitation about  pre-existing medical conditions been  made  clear  to him.
B&B says Mr W had a duty to disclose whether he had a pre-existing medical condition. 
It says that on the application form Mr W answered  no to the question  has anyone who will 
be named on the policy  ever had a serious  illness or currently  suffering with a medical  
condition? 
Mr W, in my opinion, answered this fairly and to the best of his ability.  I dont  think  Mr W 
would class the operation he had in 1995/1996 as a serious illness  and he wasnt currently  
suffering with a medical condition. B&B, given  the policy  terms around  pre-existing 
conditions, needed  to phrase its question so as to reflect the terms around  pre-existing 
medical conditions.  Had it done, then it may have prompted Mr W to determine whether the 
policy was right for him in line of the exclusions/limitations surrounding pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs W would have bought the policy  if B&B had made  it clear  it 
wasnt right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because  of what  B&B did 
wrong.
Ive taken into account B&Bs comments in response to our adjudicators opinion. But, for the 
reasons given above, I still think I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
B&B should  put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
PPI. As Mr and Mrs W didnt accept B&B initial offer to refund some of the premiums they 
paid, B&B should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest.  B&B must  give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN43954384my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.  
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4395438