K821x#15complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about a claim being declined  under her home  insurance  policy  with 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited. She doesnt consider it reasonable that the claim 
has been declined  on the grounds  she didnt maintain her septic tank properly, as she was 
unaware she had one, so couldnt maintain it.
background
In November 2017 Ms C bought a house  that she was aware was not on mains drainage.  
She has told us she thought she shared  a septic tank with a property two doors away and 
that the owner of that property maintained  the system and paid for the tank to be emptied. 
She provided us with a section of a document from her solicitor  from when she bought the 
house which said:
As you know, the property does  not have mains  foul drainage. The property is served by a 
septic tank which is situation at the rear of no. 282. According to the replies to the enquiries, 
you do not have  to contribute towards the maintenance or emptying of the tank.
In December 2018 Ms C was having difficulty with both foul and grey water  drainage.  She 
arranged for plumbers to inspect  the drainage and after a CCTV inspection was told that 
there were problems with the pipes taking the waste water away from the property. She was 
advised to contact her insurer  and make a claim under her insurance  policy.
Lloyds arranged for the situation to be assessed,  but it explained to her that only accidental  
damage would be covered  by the policy. The inspection revealed  that the drain had 
collapsed 10.6m  from the property. The cause  of the collapse was unknown. It was arranged  
for a metre  of pipe at the collapse  to be replaced.  Once that was done  a further CCTV 
inspection was undertaken. This revealed that Ms C in fact didnt share a septic tank with a 
neighbour, but rather had her own cess pit. Access to the cess pit was found  and it was 
discovered that there was a 150mm drop pipe which had broken and become disconnected. 
Due to the build-up  of sewage within the chamber,  no further inspection or repairs  were 
possible. Lloyds  representatives recommended the chamber be emptied and a jet wash  
done so that a full inspection could be undertaken. 
Two tankers  of sewage were removed and a further  inspection was completed. It was 
determined there were joint displacements throughout  the drainage run to the tank. In 
addition, a pan connector had incorrectly been  used within that run at 7.03m from the 
home, causing a snagging point. It was commented  that repair of this particular issue  
wouldnt be covered  as it was incorrectly installed. In addition, due to age and gradual 
deterioration, the brickwork to one side of the cess pit was damaged,  which it was again 
stated wouldnt be covered.
As wear and tear/gradual deterioration and poor workmanship was excluded under  the 
policy, the claim was declined. The policy excess that had been collected  when the 
contractors started investigations  was refunded.
Ms C wasnt  happy with the decision  and she complained. The complaint was declined by 
Lloyds and Ms C asked us to consider  it. 
Ref: DRN45815082One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it was upheld. 
She explained that whilst cover  may be available under a policy, if an exclusion is 
reasonably applied, it can defeat a claim.  That is what had happened  in Ms Cs case. 
Ms C didnt accept what the investigator said and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
I requested some clarification about the decisions Lloyds had made  about  different aspects 
of damage. In relation  to the displaced joints in the drainage run, it said it didnt consider this 
to be accidental damage unless an unexpected, sudden event had occurred. As the pipe ran 
through ground where the only load is the ground  itself, Lloyds considered  it reasonable to 
assume the pipe had moved over an extended  time and not suddenly.  It also confirmed that 
although the drop pipe had disconnected there  was nothing  present to suggest something  
had suddenly acted  on it which  had caused  it to disconnect. 
It also said that the pan connector had been used below ground and this could not take the 
weight of the ground and could also cause a lip. It was explained  that the pan connector 
severely restricted the diameter of the pipe and it isnt designed for taking a load. 
Photographs and CCTV footage was also provided.
relevant policy  terms
Accidental damage is defined within the policy as an accident that causes  physical damage,  
which is caused suddenly  by an outside  force and is not expected  and not deliberate.
In addition, there are some general  exclusions contained within the policy that apply to all 
sections of the policy. These detail there  is no cover  for any loss or damage caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something  that happens gradually over a period of 
time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition;
Wear and tear; 
Wear and tear is damage that naturally and inevitably  occurs as a result of normal wear 
or aging.
Lack of maintenance:
You are not insured  against the costs  of maintenance,  or the costs  of any damage 
caused by inadequate maintenance. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 October  2020  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I note that Ms C has said that its not her fault that she ended  up in the position  she ended 
up in and hadnt completed  any maintenance on her cess pit because  she didnt know  she 
had it. I can appreciate that, and I acknowledge that she has provided evidence  that she was 
told she shared a drainage system  with a neighbour and had no responsibility  for 
maintaining it. However, the fact that Ms C didnt know  she had her own drainage  system 
doesnt mean that her insurer should take responsibility for any damage  caused by it not 
being maintained. An insurance  policy is in place to provide cover for certain fortuitous 
events and a lack of maintenance, for whatever reason, is not covered.
Lloyds identified several problems with Ms Cs drainage system which  could potentially  be 
claimed for under the accidental damage  to underground services cover  provided by the 
insurance policy:
Ref: DRN45815083A partial  collapse in the drainage run.
Inappropriate parts being used within the drainage run, in that a pan connector had been 
used.
Joints throughout the drainage run having  disconnected.
The drop pipe (the vertical pipe at the end of the drainage run inside the cess pit) having 
disconnected.
Deterioration in the brickwork at the top of the cess pit.
damage to the drainage run
Lloyds has highlighted  a section of the drainage  run that had an inappropriate part installed 
in it. It said this problem  wouldnt be covered  by the insurance policy because it was poor 
workmanship to use an inappropriate part within the installation.  Given  the part that was 
used  a part designed to connect a toilet to the drainage run above  ground  I can only 
accept Lloyds position on this issue.
I turn now to the damage on either side of the inappropriate part in the drainage  run. Lloyds 
identified many occurrences of the joints between sections of drainage pipe having moved 
slightly and a partial collapse. It repaired  the collapsed drain despite not knowing what  had 
caused it, but declined to deal with the remaining damage in the drainage run. It said it 
reached this decision  because it had assumed the disjointing of the pipes had occurred over 
an extended time and not suddenly. However, it has no evidence  that is the case. 
If there is damage to underground services something must have happened  to cause that 
damage. However, because the damage  is underground it is concealed from the consumer 
and they will often not even realise  there  is damage  for some time. It isnt appropriate  to 
penalise a consumer  in such a situation. As such, this service  has for many years 
considered that claims for underground services  should be accepted by insurers unless it 
has clear evidence that an exclusion can be applied to defeat  the claim.  When  we say clear 
evidence, we would expect something more  than assumptions on the part of an insurers  
representative. This approach has become good  industry practice over the years.  
Lloyds has said it declined to deal with the jointing  issues as it has assumed it happened  
gradually. As I have  said above, an assumption is not adequate to decline a claim;  an 
insurer needs more  substantive evidence  than that. In addition,  Lloyds  appears  to have 
applied the usual approach to the more  extensive  damage in the form of the collapsed part 
of the drainage run. It repaired  this section of the run without question despite  stating  that it 
didnt know what had caused the collapse. 
I dont consider Lloyds  treated Ms C fairly  when it dealt with this part of her claim. It should 
accept the damage  to the drainage run in the form of disjointing of the connections between 
pipe sections. 
damage within the cess pit
Lloyds declined the claim for damage  to the interior brickwork of the cess pit because it was 
caused by normal  use and aging  wear and tear/gradual deterioration. I have looked at the 
footage and photographs  of the interior of the chamber and access  to it.  There is evidence 
of crumbling bricks and bowing  to the walls of the entrance.  This would be consistent with 
what can happen to underground structures over time simply because of the pressure of the 
surrounding ground and the damp  they are exposed to. As such, I dont think it was 
Ref: DRN45815084unreasonable for Lloyds to decline to deal with this damage under the cover provided  by the 
policy.
The other item damaged in the cess pit is the drop pipe  it had disconnected  when Lloyds  
representatives managed to examine  it. Lloyds  has said there  is no evidence of something 
sudden and external having  happened to the pipe. Given  the pipe is inside the cess pit, it 
would be protected  by that structure  from most  external forces  and events. Given  Ms C 
hadnt had the cess pit emptied since taking ownership of the house,  I think it unlikely that an 
outside force  caused this damage, whether suddenly or otherwise. As such, I again dont 
think Lloyds was unreasonable  in declining to accept liability for the repair  that was needed.
Ms C responded to the provisional decision and said she would abide by my final decision. 
She mentioned issues shed had regarding payment for the repairs  shed  had done.  She 
also wanted to highlight that she had tried to resolve the problems at her own cost before 
involving Lloyds. 
Lloyds provided  further  expert opinion on the damage to Ms Cs drainage  run. It had 
obtained information from the contractors,  from the private repair works Ms C had done. This 
evidenced that there was a section of pipe close to the septic tank that had been replaced, 
and, whilst the joints between this pipe and the older  sections on either  side had displaced, 
the type of joint installed  was designed  for this situation, so that was, effectively not damage. 
Lloyds also gave further comment on the displaced  joints  in the remainder of the drainage  
run. From the earlier  repair  with flexible joints, the first displaced  joint was recorded at 
0.26m. There was then 1.24m before the next displaced joint and 0.87m,  1.29m and 0.45m 
between the following displaced joints. The joints throughout the drainage run that hadnt 
suffered any damage  were also documented. Lloyds said that such  regular and consistent 
jointing was evidence of how the pipes were  originally  laid (around 70 years earlier)  or how 
they settled uniformly  into the earth as the ground  below the pipe consolidated. It said this 
was not accidental damage and sudden discovery of something hidden  from sight didnt 
change its conclusion. 
In addition, Lloyds  also said there  must be a reasonable expectation for a homeowner to 
maintain, and have  occasional  awareness  of, important things like drains. It commented  that 
CCTV surveys  are not specialist items and cost no more  than £100;  the implication being  
that it considered  homeowners  should have periodic surveys completed.
I wrote  to Ms C and explained what Lloyds expert  had said about the additional  section of 
replaced pipe.  I confirmed that I was persuaded that this section of pipe hadnt  needed  repair 
and so it shouldnt  be covered in the redress detailed in my provisional  decision. A copy  of 
the letter was sent to Lloyds for its consideration.
Ms C acknowledged  my further  conclusion and confirmed she had nothing  further  to add. 
Lloyds said that there  is no explanation why the remaining displaced joints  might be 
accidental damage.  It had suggested  the same mechanism for all of the pipe  that the 
displacement had happened as a consequence of how the pipe had been  laid. It asked that 
if it were to proceed on the basis of the pipe being covered, whether all of the damage  
should be dealt  with as one claim. It put forward that as the drainage  run was more than 6m, 
could it not, as the insurer, judge  how plausible it could be for one event to have damaged all 
joints at the same time and all in the same  way.
Ref: DRN45815085my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, alongside the 
further comments from the parties,  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
In my provisional decision and addendum to it, I decided that Lloyds was not unreasonable 
in declining the claim to the cess pit and the sections of the drainage run where repairs  had 
already been undertaken  inappropriately in one instance and appropriately in another. 
Neither party has objected to or commented on my conclusions in these regards and so I 
see no reason to change them.
Since my provisional consideration of the complaint Lloyds has reiterated  and expanded  on 
its reasons for declining the claim. It has also suggested that if it is to be expected to pay the 
claim, it should be allowed to make  assumptions about the damage happening at different 
times; potentially treating  it as more than one claim.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  it is good industry practice  for an insurer to accept 
claims such as Ms Cs unless the insurer has clear  evidence that an exclusion can be 
applied to defeat the claim. I explained what  clear  evidence would consist of and I am still 
satisfied that Lloyds reasons for declining  the claim are speculation based on assumptions.  
The same principle would apply to the question of Lloyds wanting  to treat such  situations as 
multiple claims  it would need to provide clear evidence that it was fair to do so and 
assumptions and speculation would not be considered sufficient for that purpose. 
I would also comment that if Lloyds wants its policyholders to have periodic surveys of their 
drainage systems completed, it could require them to do so as a condition of cover. 
However, it would  need  to make the requirement  clear before cover was taken out. 
I remain satisfied that Lloyds didnt treat Ms C fairly when it dealt with the claim for displaced  
joints in the drainage run. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited to accept the claim for the damage to the drainage run in the form of 
displaced joints, other than those at the end of the drainage run where the new section of 
pipe was installed with flexible jointing designed  to cater  for displacement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4581508