K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss A are unhappy with St Andrews  Insurance plcs (St Andrews) handling  of a 
number of claims theyve made  for flooding under their building insurance policy.  Any 
references to St Andrews  include  its agents.
background
Mr P and Miss As home has been subject to a number of floods over several years. The first 
flood in November  2012 caused  significant damage to their home. Mr P and Miss A had to 
move out of their home as the damage was too extensive for them to continue  living  there. 
Mr P identified a chartered surveyor to devise a scope of works. The tenders were received 
in May 2013.  By this time, the property  had been  damaged by further flooding, and this 
impacted the tenders that had been submitted. As a result, the scope of works needed to be 
reviewed. Towards the end of 2013, the chartered surveyor  appointed  by Mr P told 
St Andrews  he considered the house was untenable. 
In the spring of 2014, St Andrews offered to cash settle the claim. They offered Mr P and 
Miss A the amount  of the tender, along with an additional £20,000 in recognition of the 
further damage that had been incurred.  It made  a further offer in respect of their contents, 
along with rental and storage costs  for a further six months. Mr P and Miss A declined  this 
offer, wanting St Andrews to arrange  the repairs.
Later in 2014,  the scope of works was reviewed again, and new tenders invited. However, 
further damage was again incurred in the property. Towards the end of 2015, the chartered 
surveyor lets St Andrews know neither tender was accepted by Mr P and Miss A.                
St Andrews  made a further offer to cash settle the claim, which  Mr P and Miss A declined  
again.  Eventually, in 2017  St Andrews started to consider the prospect of rebuilding  Mr P 
and Miss As home,  based on the indication the repair costs were looking  to exceed the cost 
of rebuilding. 
Mr P and Miss A feel St Andrewss  handled their claims  badly, and the decision to rebuild 
their home should have  been taken much  sooner. They say if this had happened,  they 
wouldnt have spent  so many years out of their home or experienced the level of upset and 
frustration they have.
St Andrews  acknowledged a number  of delays incurred through the history of the claim for 
various reasons.  It said there were delays  relating  to waiting for contractors to respond to 
tenders, and this was complicated by continued instances of flooding. There was also 
movement in the property which caused  further  damage and this, along with the continued 
flooding, meant the scope  of works  needed to be reviewed a number of times.  It says at the 
earliest point it became  clear it was no longer economical to repair  the property, it made  the 
decision it should rebuild  the property. However,  it didnt feel any of the delays  had been  
avoidable, rather they were as a result of a complex situation that frequently  changed. 
Unhappy with this and remaining of the view St. Andrews should  have taken  the decision to 
rebuild the property much earlier,  Mr P and Miss A referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked in this complaint.  She didnt think St Andrews had acted 
incorrectly and had explained why it wasnt prepared to rebuild the property until it became 
clear that it was the most  economical option, and this was in line with the policy terms. As Mr 
Ref: DRN43234332P and Miss A didnt agree, saying this decision should have been  taken much earlier, this 
matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a long running matter and Mr P and Miss A have still expressed 
concerns about  the position  of their home. While  I understand these concerns and am sorry 
to hear things are still so uncertain for them, I want to clarify  Im only looking at           St 
Andrews handling  of the claim up until the final response letter dated 15 March 2019. 
Like our investigator,  Ive summarised the history of the claim, and my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the most central issues. 
Ive started by reviewing  what St. Andrews is expected to provide under the policy.  The 
policy terms and conditions state:
How we settle a claim under you Buildings  cover and Buildings  accidental optional  
cover-
- We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is 
damaged (using  a suitable equivalent material  wherever possible) but not more than 
the cost of completely rebuilding it in its original form.
- We have the option of giving you a money  payment instead of repairing or 
rebuilding your home.
Under this policy  term, there  was no requirement  for St Andrews to rebuild the property after 
their first flood happened. I think its also helpful to start by clarifying  it isnt the insurers  
responsibility to make  Mr P and Miss As home  flood  proof. However, when faced  with a 
claim, what this service would expect  is for a lasting and effective  repair to be carried  out. 
Ive gone on to consider whether St Andrews took this course of action in attempting  to 
repair the property  in the first instance.  
the decision to rebuild the property
Although it took a long time for the decision to be taken to rebuild the property, theres no 
dispute about what happened  in the early stages  of this claim.  Mr P and Miss As home was 
flooded in late 2012 and Mr P went  on to instruct a chartered surveyor  who took 
responsibility for devising a scope  of works.  St Andrews were  happy to accept the scope of 
works from Mr Ps chartered  surveyor. 
There was an early  dispute about  whether tanking  was considered. Having  considered email 
exchanges between  Mr P, the chartered surveyor and St Andrews,  Im satisfied tanking was 
considered as a potential  remedy.  This course of action was dismissed by St Andrews for a 
couple of key reasons. The first was that taking this course  of action fell outside of the terms 
of the policy, as it was a preventative action.  Secondly, St Andrews identified the cost of 
tanking would far exceed the cost of carrying out the repairs indicated at that time. The third 
reason tanking  wasnt considered any further  was because  it was suggested water would 
still be able to cross the threshold of the property. Im satisfied this course of action was 
given careful consideration before it was declined. 
Ref: DRN43234333Mr P has referred to an email  from his chartered surveyor  in late 2013  which  notes the 
house is untenable and suggests St Andrews consider  purchasing it. Mr P considers this 
was the first point where St Andrews should have made the decision to rebuild  the property. 
St Andrews  has said that, had the chartered  surveyor really  believed this, he wouldnt have 
continued to lead the tender process  for carrying  out repairs  to the property. 
I can understand why Mr P has put confidence  in this email  at that point in time. However, 
Im more persuaded  by St Andrews argument here that if the chartered surveyor  had really 
believed the property couldnt  be repaired, I think it is likely he would have taken a different 
course of action rather than recommending repairs. 
As it was, the correspondence from the chartered  surveyor that followed focused on 
repairing the property.  On this basis, Im not persuaded  St Andrews should have done 
anything differently at this point.  
Instead, the scope  of works, drawn up in 2013  by Mr Ps surveyor, was put out to tender. 
This scope  of works had to be revisited as the property continued to let in water and 
deteriorate while waiting  for the tender process  to be carried  out. 
It goes without saying  there were  several  delays as the scope of works was revised and put 
out to tender  again. By 2015, the tenders received  hadnt been accepted by Mr P and      
Miss A, so St Andrews offered to cash settle the claim, as it had offered before. I think this 
was a reasonable option for it to put to Mr P and Miss A. 
In early 2016, the chartered surveyor indicated the earliest potential  starting  date for the 
build was likely to be early  2017, given the time taken  for tender and appointing a builder. 
The chartered surveyor put forward a scope of works setting out the costs for both rebuilding 
the property and reinstating  it. As Id expect,  St Andrews wanted to put the scope of works 
out to tender, as it had expressed  concern the rebuild costs  appeared high. This seems a 
reasonable and expected course of action in the circumstances. 
By mid-2017 the property  had deteriorated  to the extent another  indication was given it might 
be more economical  to rebuild the property, rather than carrying  out extensive repairs. This 
required a further  tender process, which completed  mid-2018.  
Mr P has told us that he essentially wants to know why it took so many  years for St Andrews 
to decide to rebuild  the house. Mr P has consistently  said that he considered this the best 
course of action. While  I can see the possibility of rebuilding the property was considered  in 
2014, it was dismissed  because  the cost of doing  so exceeded the indicated  cost of repairs. 
St Andrews  say at the point when it started to become  clear  that the repair cost might 
exceed the rebuild  cost and that the surveyor had noticed structural  movement, they went  to 
tender again over this  a course of action  I would have  expected  it to take. While I can see 
this might have added to the time taken  to reach the decision to rebuild, I consider  this was a 
reasonable step to take. Im more persuaded by the argument put forward by St Andrews in 
that Mr Ps surveyor wrote  the tenders, which set out the property  could be repaired on a 
number of occasions, which St Andrews gave weight to. 
I dont consider St Andrews was under any obligation to take the decision to rebuild the 
property until it received the definitive  advice of the chartered surveyor  on 16 February 2018. 
As Ive said,  the policy didnt require it to consider rebuilding the property as a first course of 
action. St Andrews was entitled to consider all other  options, such as tanking and 
Ref: DRN43234334reinstatement works  before taking the decision to rebuild the property.  Im satisfied at the 
first clear  indication rebuilding the property would  be the more economically  viable  option,  it 
acted on this advice.  It follows, I dont have any recommendations  to make in response  to 
this part of the complaint. 
the overall time taken and handling of the claims
Theres no dispute that, several  years on, this claim remains unresolved.  Mr P and Miss A 
are still living  in alternative accommodation.  There has been  much to consider from the initial 
point of claim in November 2012 to the date of the final response  in March 2019  around both 
the time taken and the handling of the claims.  
There have been  discrepancies  over the number  of separate claims registered. Mr P says 10 
separate flood  claims have been  registered.  St Andrews says its not this many  as some 
claims have been  grouped together where water  entered  the property a number of times in 
quick succession, or where  no further damage was incurred. However, it says any final 
excess payment is due to be deducted at the end of the claim, which falls after the final 
response letter of March 2019, so Im unable to make a finding  on this point.  If Mr P and 
Miss A consider any excess deducted isnt correct,  they can take this up with St Andrews at 
that point.
I will say though, having reviewed the file, I can see why Mr P might  have  earlier been of the 
indication that the flood  claims would be treated separately, as there had been 
correspondence indicating this. Mr P interprets this as a step taken to ensure he could 
receive the maximum benefit  available to him under the alternative  accommodation  clause. 
However, I note St Andrews has paid for Mr P and Miss A to remain in alternative 
accommodation since mid-2013.   
In respect of alternative  accommodation, the policy says:
If your home is made uninhabitable by any cause covered under Buildings cover,  
we will pay for.
- The costs of similar  alternative accommodation for you, your family and your 
domestic pets while you cannot live in your home.
- The most we will pay for any one event  is £30,000.
Up until the date of the final response  letter, St. Andrews has continued to pay for the 
alternative accommodation costs, along  with additional storage costs for Mr P and Miss As 
furniture. I can see that St Andrews  acted fairly  quickly  to try and source alternative 
accommodation, although it was difficult to find a property  that met Mr P and Miss As 
requirements. 
Having reviewed the notes around  this, Im satisfied  St Andrews took all reasonable steps  to 
source alternative accommodation  for Mr P and Miss A. And while there have been  
moments since the alternative accommodation was sourced that have been unsettling  for  
Mr P and Miss A, I think these were inevitable given  the length  of time they have needed to 
be in alternative accommodation for. I dont consider St Andrews could have taken a 
different course  of action in terms of sourcing  alternative accommodation for Mr P and    
Miss A. I dont  have  any recommendations to make in respect of this part of their complaint. 
Ref: DRN43234335Ive also considered the action St Andrews  took at the very start of the claim.  While Mr P 
and Miss A were still living in the property, it paid them a total of £850 a month in recognition 
of the disturbance they experienced. While this isnt strictly covered by the policy, this 
service would usually  say a payment of £10 a day per adult is appropriate in these 
circumstances. St Andrews also paid for replacement appliances to help during their time at 
home before they moved to alternative accommodation. Im satisfied St Andrews took 
adequate steps in terms of the payments it made to Mr P and Miss A. 
This has been a long running claim that has been complex. There  have been a number of 
challenges and the scope  of works  has needed to be revisited a number of times.  There 
have been delays but these have been caused for various reasons, such  as waiting for 
tender, having  to revisit the scope of works and sourcing alternative accommodation. And in 
deciding if St Andrews ought to have done  more,  Ive considered if it is directly responsible 
for the delays. But I dont  think  it is. It has acknowledged  its earlier  handling of the claim fell 
below the standard expected and made  a compensation payment in respect of this. But, like 
our investigator, I dont  consider  St Andrews has been the cause of further  delays. 
I realise my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr P and Miss A, especially as 
theyve outlined some  difficulties theyve had with their builders and solicitors. While I 
sympathise with what theyve told us, I have to consider whats  expected  under their contract  
with St Andrews. These issues  have arisen  after the final response and are as a result  of 
separate contracts between Mr P and Miss A and their respective  builders  and solicitors,  
these difficulties havent formed part of my consideration.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not going to direct St Andrews  to make a further  payment  to 
Mr P and Miss A.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2021.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4323433