K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that National House Building  Council (NHBC)  say their self-build 
housing warranty will not cover any problems  caused by work carried out by a third-party 
contractor.
background
Mr and Mrs F have  a Solo  for Self-Build housing  warranty  policy  with NHBC. 
NHBC carried out repairs to Mr and Mrs Fs house  which were completed in 2017. At that 
point, NHBC issued  a certificate of repair which confirmed they would be responsible for the 
repairs for six years from the time they were completed.
Before the repairs  were carried out Mr and Mrs Fs loft had been boarded, to provide storage 
space. Mr and Mrs F wanted this reinstated as part of the repairs.  But NHBC pointed out that 
due to a change in building regulations  which requires thicker  insulation  the loft could not 
be reinstated as it had been before.
After some discussion  with NHBC about  possible solutions, Mr and Mrs F agreed to accept a 
cash settlement so that they could engage their own contractor essentially to board the loft 
at a raised height.
NHBC have said that the six-year warranty under the certificate of repair wont  cover  the 
work carried out by Mr and Mrs Fs contractor.  Mr and Mrs F think this is unfair and 
complained to NHBC.
NHBC didnt uphold their complaint, so Mr and Mrs F complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think NHBC had done anything  wrong.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy, where there is damage  to Mr and Mrs Fs house which is covered, NHBC 
are entitled  to repair and reinstate the property or to offer a cash  settlement.
Its unfortunate in this case that the changes to building regulations  meant an exact  
reinstatement wasnt possible. It would have  been  entirely inappropriate for NHBC to re-
board the loft as it was previously.
In this difficult situation, both parties agreed  a cash settlement  and that seems  to me to 
have been a fair and reasonable way for NHBC to settle the claim.
It would be unfair  and odd  to expect NHBC to guarantee work carried out by a third party  
contractor engaged by Mr and Mrs F when  they have no control at all over the design, 
execution and quality  of the work. 
Ref: DRN43284932If that work is carried out poorly and either fails or causes other problems, Mr and Mrs F 
could seek redress from their contractor in line with whatever  contracts / agreements  they 
have with them.
Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs F were  made  aware NHBC wouldnt guarantee the third 
party work before they agreed to the case settlement.  The certificate of repair,  for example, 
contains a clear condition which says NHBC will not be responsible for any repairs  that we 
didnt authorise  as part of the claim.
I think Mr and Mrs F might be confused about some of NHBCs communications about  this 
matter. NHBCs  assertion that they wont guarantee the third party work does not mean the 
warranty under the certificate of repair would be invalidated altogether if third party work is 
carried out.
I think NHBCs position is that they wont guarantee the boarding work. The certificate  of 
repair will still stand  and the earlier repair work they authorised  and carried  out will still be 
covered  providing this has not been  compromised  by anything the third party contractors 
do.
That seems  to me to be perfectly fair and reasonable  and what  one might expect. Its not 
for me to hypothesise at the moment about  what might or might  not happen if for some  
unforeseen reason the repairs  carried out by NHBC fail in future. At that point, it would be a 
case of establishing  whether that failure was caused by something the third party contractor 
had done or not.
In summary,  I think NHBC have settled this part of Mr and Mrs Fs claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner. I dont  think  there is anything wrong in NHBC making it clear that they 
wont guarantee work carried out by a third party commissioned  by Mr and Mrs F.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4328493