K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the service outages he experienced following TSB Bank plcs upgrade 
to it systems. He complains that he had spent a considerable amount of time on the phone 
trying to resolve the issues  and was out of pocket as a result of bank fees he incurred 
elsewhere. 
background
In April 2018 TSB services were  negatively affected  when it upgraded some of its systems.  
Mr D raised several issues in relation to his account with TSB.  In April 2018 he complained  
that he didnt have online access to his account,  and TSB paid £20 for the trouble this was 
causing him, £12 in costs (including  phone  calls to sort the issue)  and £29 for the interest he 
ought to have been paid on the positive balance  on the account.  
In January 2019, he raised further  issues  in particular the fact that he had still not been 
receiving the interest he thought he was entitled  to since  July 2018. At this point he was paid 
a further £100 for the trouble the matter was causing him, and £50 for expenses. 
Mr D remained  unhappy as he still had intermittent access to his account,  and had been  
caused further trouble by being  unable to make payments towards a credit card he had used 
for a purchase  so he referred  his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators  looked  
into the complaint  and considered all the issues which Mr D had experienced since April 
2018. She thought that his complaint  should be upheld, and that it would  be fair and 
reasonable for TSB to pay Mr D £300  but she said that TSB could take into account  the 
amounts it had previously  paid to him. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said that he didnt think TSB ought to be able to deduct sums from the 
compensation payment, because those complaints predated his referral  to the service  and 
some of those complaints  were about  different  things which he hadnt  referred  to us. 
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his mind. In short, he said: 
The first complaint in April 2018 was about being unable  to have access to internet 
banking, and as a result  not being  able to pay for his car insurance through  that 
account. He was offered £20 for trouble and upset, as well as other sums for costs 
and loss of interest. 
The second complaint was about  further  issues accessing online banking   but these 
were due to the account being blocked as a result of a fraud marker being placed on 
it. 
The third complaint was about  the delay  in responding to the second complaint, and 
not receiving satisfactory resolution.  For this he was offered £100 for the trouble he 
had been through. 
This meant  that TSB had paid £120 for trouble and upset (as well as £91 for financial 
loss)  so it needed to pay him £180 on top of that.
The adjudicator confirmed that £130 had been paid in June 2019,  and the further £50 had 
been paid in August. So TSB neednt  do anything further. 
Ref: DRN41070582Mr D still wasnt  happy. He said that the second time he complained  it was about something 
different, and unrelated to his other complaints. He didnt think  that money  should  be taken 
into account when  deciding how much compensation he was entitled to. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons. 
I think its important to note at the outset that Mr D has been  let down by TSB.  I think its very 
clear that he has not received the service he was entitled to expect, and the ongoing issues  
have caused him distress  and inconvenience. So the starting point is that Mr D is entitled to 
some compensation for that.
The issue  therefore  is whether whats been paid so far (which I understand amounts to £300  
plus various expenses  and costs) is fair and reasonable compensation. Having considered  
everything thats happened, including the impact this had on Mr D, Im satisfied that the £300 
compensation Mr D has received, as well as reimbursement of costs  and expenses,  is fair. 
I understand that Mr Ds main issue with this offer of compensation is that he doesnt 
consider TSB ought to be able to deduct previous sums from it. In particular,  I understand 
Mr D disputes that his third complaint was in fact a continuation of the second  he says that 
third complaint was about something  totally different and any compensation paid in relation  
to it shouldnt be taken  into account. 
TSB has provided notes  from its contact  with Mr D. In relation to this particular branch visit, it 
has said: 
customer came into branch on 29 January 2019 to complain that his previous complaint has 
still not been resolved and he still doesnt have  access to internet banking, resulting in him 
not receiving interest on his account  since July 2018. Customer  very unhappy that he has 
not had any response  or acknowledgement. Apologised to the customer. I have decided to 
pay £100 trouble  and upset and £50 expenses. 
I accept this might not be Mr Ds recollection,  and it may well be that there were other issues  
which were also discussed,  or which he thought were more important than the fact that his 
previous complaint hadnt been  resolved.  But it seems to me that TSB considered both the 
fact that his complaint hadnt been resolved, and the financial loss, and paid him 
compensation for that. And given that this also stemmed from the same  service issues  which  
TSB were considering  I think its fair that this be taken into account when deciding what  
further steps TSB should take to put things right for Mr D. 
In addition, its important  that any award  I make is fair and reasonable  my role isnt to 
punish the business and I have no power  to award  punitive damages. So I need to take into 
account all the relevant  circumstances of Mr Ds complaint. Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to award Mr D separate amounts for individual mistakes or problems  instead  of taking 
everything into account when deciding how TSB should put things right.  
Ref: DRN41070583In Mr Ds case, Im satisfied the overall circumstances are all part of the same issues that led 
to Mr D referring his complaint to this service.  In any event, if I decided not to take into 
account the compensation already paid to Mr D, Id also not be able to take into account the 
service issues  Mr D has experienced which those compensation payments related  to. This 
means Id be awarding substantially less than £300. 
So for the reasons Ive explained,  Im satisfied that an overall  award of £300  for the trouble 
and upset Mr D experienced as a result of all these issues  is fair and reasonable. I 
understand that TSB has paid:
£120 as part of the complaint process; 
£180 in response  to the adjudicators view
£50 to make up the overall £300 figure. 
Im therefore  satisfied it need not do anymore to put matters right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Ds complaint. But as TSB 
has already paid all the compensation I consider fair and reasonable  in this case, it doesnt 
need to do anymore to put things right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4107058