K820x#14complaint
In 2002, Mr J took out a loan with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). At the same 
time, Nationwide  sold him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. Mr J thinks that 
Nationwide mis-sold this policy to him and wants it to refund the premium he paid for it, plus 
interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Nationwide mis-sold  PPI to Mr J and didnt recommend that it should  give him any 
money back. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Js case. Ive looked into everything  that Mr J and Nationwide  have told us 
or sent us about his complaint and Ive decided  not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Mr J initially told us that he took the loan and PPI policy  during  a meeting with Nationwide  at 
one of its branches. However, Nationwide has looked at its records from the time and it says 
these show that it sold both the loan and the PPI policy to Mr J over the telephone. 
Its well over fifteen  years  since Mr J bought the policy and I cant be sure exactly what  
happened, but I think its likely that Nationwides records are right that it sold PPI to Mr J 
over the phone. Mr J also seems to have accepted this as in later correspondence  with us 
he mentioned the phone call. 
Mr J has told us that when he applied for the loan, Nationwide told him that his application  
was more likely to be accepted if he took out PPI. But hes also told us that PPI was never 
mentioned in the call, which  slightly contradicts  his comments about Nationwide telling him 
that taking PPI would increase his chances  of getting the loan.
Nationwide has told us that it explained  to Mr J that PPI was optional and that it didnt imply 
that buying it would help him get the loan. It has sent us call scripts from the time which it 
says it would have  used during the phone call, along with a copy  of Mr Js credit agreement  
which it says it sent to Mr J after the phone call.
The credit agreement made a brief mention  of PPI which it called optional credit insurance  
and Mr J signed the agreement on the same page. Unfortunately there is no recording of the 
phone call and I cant tell exactly what Nationwide said to Mr J about  PPI, but looking at the 
evidence that Nationwide  has sent us Im satisfied that it probably gave Mr J the choice to 
apply for the loan with or without PPI. I dont think it told him that taking PPI would  increase  
his chances of getting the loan. 
Mr J has also told us "there was no mention of the costs  or the benefits of a PPI policy. 
Mr J paid for the policy by borrowing extra money  which itself attracted interest.  Nationwide 
added this extra borrowing to the main loan and arranged things so that the policy  and the 
main loan would run for the same  length of time. Again, I dont  know  for sure what  
Ref: DRN49955532Nationwide told Mr J during the phone call, but the credit agreement set out the cost of the 
PPI premium, the interest it would attract, the total payment Mr J would have to make for PPI 
and the monthly  cost.  I think its quite likely that Nationwide  mentioned this during the phone  
call and although I accept  that Mr J may no longer  remember these details, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide told Mr J how much he would have  to pay for PPI. 
Mr J has told us that Nationwide recommended  PPI to him and advised him to take it. 
However, Nationwide had told us that it sold PPI to Mr J on an information  only basis . 
Its call scripts imply this to have been the case;  and Mr J has also told us that Nationwide  
didnt explain PPI to him and that he wasnt aware of what PPI was until later years , so I 
think its unlikely that Nationwide  made  a personal recommendation to him. This meant  that 
Nationwide didnt have  to check that the policy was suitable for Mr J, but it still had to tell him 
about it fairly and clearly  so he could decide  if he wanted it.
I accept that Nationwide may not have explained  everything about the policy  to Mr J as 
clearly as it should have  done during the phone cal. So Ive looked at the policys  features, 
limitations and exclusions  to see if there was anything which would  have put Mr J off buying 
it if Nationwide had done things properly. 
The policy had eligibility rules, which Mr J met, and he doesnt seem to have been caught by 
any of its main exclusions and limitations. If he cancelled it early, he would have received a 
proportionate refund on the cost of the policy. (Indeed, I understand he did this). And 
Nationwide set it up to run for the same  length  of time as the loan Mr J wanted, so it would 
have covered him throughout the period Mr J expected to have  the loan. Ive already  
explained that I think Nationwide told Mr J how much the policy would cost him, so I dont 
think clearer information about it would have put him off buying it.
Mr J has also told us that when he bought  the policy his employer would have paid him sick 
pay if he was off work ill and that he also had some savings, so he doesnt think he needed 
PPI. However, as Nationwide didnt recommend the policy Mr J, it didnt need to check these 
things. So I dont think Nationwide  mis-sold  PPI to Mr J. 
In some of Nationwides early correspondence with Mr J, it mentioned that he may have had 
PPI on a credit card that he took out in 2000. However, Mr J has told us that he is 
complaining about PPI on my cash loan  and Nationwide has said that it will review  Mr Js 
credit card PPI separately and that the loan and the credit card are not connected  in 
anyway. So I would like to clarify  that this decision only covers the PPI policy  which Mr J 
bought with the loan he took in 2002.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint that Nationwide  
Building Society mis-sold him PPI alongside  a loan in 2002. Im not going to tell Nationwide  
to give Mr J any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4995553