K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way hes been  treated  by HSBC Life (UK) Limited and the way it 
dealt with his income  protection claim. 
background
Mr H has an income  protection policy with HSBC. This is a group policy  offered by his 
employer. Mr H brings this complaint in his capacity as a group member. 
Mr H had a knee replacement in May 2017 and so had to take time off work to recover. 
Whilst he was still away from work, in November the same year,  he went on holiday where 
he was subsequently injured in an accident. This further extended the time he was away  
from work which resulted  in a claim being raised  under his income protection policy. Mr H 
said HSBC initially told him itd pay his claim until December 2018 and then later changed its 
mind. Mr H returned to work  in March 2018 and so he would  like HSBC to pay him the four 
months worth of wages  he was out of pocket.  
HSBC said it declined  Mr Hs claim because he was not actively  working at the time of the 
accident  which is one of the prerequisites within the policy  terms. It said it understood this 
came at an already  difficult time for Mr H and so it agreed to pay him one months benefit as 
a goodwill gesture. In doing this, HSBC sent Mr H a letter to confirm what was happening 
and this is where it made an error  with the dates. It effectively said itd pay Mr H up to a 
years worth  of benefit. HSBC accepted  itd made  a mistake and so agreed  to pay another  
months instalment  as a way of apology.  Meaning Mr H effectively  received around  £7,000  
worth of payments  that he was not actually entitled  to. 
Our investigator said HSBC did not need to do anything more than it had already. She 
accepted HSBC had made an error  with the dates in the letter, but acknowledged itd put 
things right when Mr H had questioned  this. She thought  the amount of money  Mr H had 
already received was much higher than any compensation  award she would  have made and 
so did not recommend it do anything else. 
Mr H did not accept this. His arguments  are essentially the same as before. In summary he 
said HSBC should  be bound by its original offer and that it should  pay him for the time he 
was not receiving occupational sick pay from his employer, including  for his phased return  
period. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking HSBC  
to do anything more  than it has already. I say this mainly for the same reasons  already given  
by our investigator, but Id also like to add that Mr Hs claim was declined fairly. For the 
possibility of his claim  to have been successful, he would have had to have  been  actively 
working at the time he was involved in the accident.  Mr H was already away from work 
recovering from his knee  replacement surgery, and thats why HSBC  said he did not meet  
the definition of actively  working . Ive checked how HSBC has defined  this within the terms 
and it says;
Ref: DRN44849372a Member shall be Actively at Work if that person is present at their place of work and is 
medically capable  of performing the normal duties required  by the job for which  they are 
employed and has not received medical advice to refrain from work and is working their 
Contracted Hours
And so because Mr H was recovering from his knee operation  at the time he had a further 
incident Im satisfied that he was not actively working and did not meet  the definition 
described above. The policy also says;
the Member  must  be Actively at Work  when the illness or injury  causing the Incapacity 
commences to enable  a claim to be made
This is also why I say HSBC has not declined Mr Hs claim unfairly. I understand HSBC was 
sympathetic to Mr Hs circumstances, which is why it had agreed to pay him one months 
benefit even though he wasnt entitled to it. HSBC said it did this because  it understood Mr H 
was already going through a difficult time and it wanted to help. I thought  that was a 
generous offer as it was not something it had to do. Further, it then paid a second  months  
worth of benefit because  it had made  an error with the dates listed within the letter to Mr H  
effectively telling him itd pay the benefit until December 2018  instead of December 2017. 
I accept this would have given Mr H raised  expectations about the level of support HSBC 
was going to give him, but I note things  were put right when Mr H queried this further.  I 
would not have expected  HSBC to pay another months benefit simply because it made a 
mistake like this. Overall,  Mr H received two months worth of payments totalling 
approximately £7,000 which he was never entitled  to. Its for these reasons I make no further  
award as the money hes already received would outweigh  any award Id have made for this 
particular complaint.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4484937