K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  him a personal  loan for home  
improvements. He says the adviser  told him this wouldnt affect his ability to re-mortgage  
later on and this wasnt true.
background
Mr W and his wife took out a joint mortgage  on their home in September  2017. At that time 
they werent able to borrow enough for home  improvements but were advised they may be 
able to borrow more  the following year. In March  2018,  they went  into their branch to ask 
about more borrowing as they were  ready  to do work on their home.  After  talking to an 
adviser in branch, Mr W took out an unsecured loan of £30,000 for home improvements. He 
says the adviser  left the room and assured  them shed checked with her colleague  in the 
mortgage team and that the loan wouldnt affect their ability to re-mortgage later on and they 
wouldnt incur any early  repayment charges.
When Mr and Mrs W went back into branch to meet  with their mortgage  adviser  in July 2018, 
however, she told them  that, because Mr W had taken out the loan, the re-mortgage would 
count as debt consolidation. This meant the additional lending could only be approved over a 
term of 10 years instead of the full term of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs W were upset about  
this because they said the loan adviser  assured them the mortgage adviser had said this 
wouldnt be a problem.  The mortgage  adviser  said she wouldnt have given that advice if 
shed been asked. 
Mr W complained  to Bank of Scotland  plc because he said the loan wasnt suitable because 
it affected his ability  to re-mortgage which was what hed planned to do. Bank of Scotland 
looked into the complaint but rejected it. So he came to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld so Mr W asked for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The complaint is about  the suitability of 
advice Mr W was given when he took out the unsecured loan and the consequences of that 
on Mr and Mrs Ws ability to re-mortgage  later on. 
Its difficult to know  exactly what was said in the meeting  when the loan was arranged  as it 
wasnt recorded. I dont  question Mr Ws recollection  that he was told hed still be able to re-
mortgage to pay off the loan later on. But on the evidence I have, it seems  that was correct. 
Mr and Mrs W could  still re-mortgage to pay off the loan, but this would only be for a term of 
10 years  not the full term. So I think its most  likely that there  was a misunderstanding  about 
the details around  re-mortgaging  but the information given wasnt incorrect.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken the loan out if hed understood the consequences. But 
looking at the circumstances, I think Mr W needed  the funds quickly  for the home  
improvements. Ive listened  to the recording of the meeting about re-mortgaging and Mr and 
Mrs W were clearly happy that the loan was processed so quickly and they were able to get 
on with the work without  delay. If theyd had more  time, I think its likely  they wouldve come  
back another day to talk to the mortgage  adviser  but the process  for re-mortgaging  wouldve 
taken more time. So overall,  I dont think the loan was unsuitable for their situation  at the 
time. On balance, I think its likely that Mr W wouldve taken the unsecured loan out even if 
Ref: DRN41353402he knew this would  reduce the term for re-mortgaging because he needed  the funds as soon 
as possible to get on with the work.
I understand this will be a disappointment for Mr W and I realise that he feels  he was given 
conflicting information by advisers  in Bank of Scotland. I cant verify exactly what was said 
and what happened  in the meeting about the unsecured  loan, but based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont  think  the loan was unsuitable  for Mr Ws needs at the time it was sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135340