K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) on a credit card account that 
started in 1998.  Miss B says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Miss B has said the PPI was sold in 2002.  But, as indicated by the PPI start date in Lloyds 
response letter, Miss B first took her credit card in 1998. The PPI might have been added  at 
that time - but Lloyds  cant say for sure. This is because  Lloyds  PPI records dont go back  
that far. The earliest statements  it has to show PPI on the account are from 2000 and show  
PPI was on the account at that time. The statements have an entry  showing a payments  
insurance premium was charged  including the amount of the charge.
Lloyds says the PPI was cancelled in 2002 around the time that Miss B upgraded her card.  
The reference numbers  for the 1998 card and the 2002 upgrade were both given in Lloyds 
final response letter. The reference Miss B has given  us is for the earlier  card but both were  
part of the same credit account. Lloyds says PPI wasnt on the upgraded card - so the PPI 
policy here ended in 2002.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt any paperwork  or records to show exactly how the PPI was sold  or how the 
credit card was taken out. But I dont find that surprising, given how long ago all this was. So 
the fact we dont  have  information to show how the card or the PPI started doesnt make  me 
think something was wrong with the sale or that Lloyds likely did something wrong.
Miss B says she doesnt  remember  being asked about adding  PPI to the card and she says 
she didnt know she had taken it. But the PPI was sold over fifteen years ago. And buying 
card insurance is often not very memorable. So I wouldnt expect Miss B to recall  the sale 
necessarily. And I dont  think the fact Miss B doesnt  have  a recollection of Lloyds asking her 
about the PPI shows, all this time after the PPI started, that Lloyds didnt ask her about  
adding it at the time it first started.
I understand Miss B would like Lloyds to produce  something signed to show  she had agreed 
to PPI and been  told what it would cost.  But, as referenced above,  the fact Lloyds doesnt 
have sales paperwork  for the PPI or the card  doesnt in my view mean that Miss B didnt 
agree to the take the card or the PPI. Looking at everything else I have  and, as noted  
above, the information available  is limited  there isnt anything  else to make me think  that 
Lloyds added PPI to the account without Miss Bs agreement.
Miss B has said she doesnt recall  any charges being listed for the PPI  but shes  said she 
cant find old statements. From what Ive said above, PPI charges wouldnt  have  shown on 
statements after 2002 (as the PPI was stopped in 2002). The fact Miss B doesnt  remember 
seeing PPI charges  or has paperwork from later years that dont show  PPI  isnt enough  
to persuade me that Miss B wasnt made aware of the PPI at the time she first took it.
Ref: DRN47186602Taking everything into account,  what I have isnt enough to make me think  that Miss B didnt 
agree to the PPI or that Lloyds added it without asking  or telling her. Also, although it isnt 
relevant to the sale itself (because  statements showing PPI would only been sent after the 
PPI sale was concluded),  from what Ive seen it looks like when the PPI was in force, at least 
in 2000, PPI charges did appear on the statements for the account.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss B it had to do more and check  the PPI was right for 
her. Lloyds thinks it might have recommended  the PPI to Miss B. So I think  its fair to assess 
the complaint  on that basis  which places on Lloyds more responsibility for the sale. But 
from what Ive seen  of Miss Bs circumstances, I think  the PPI was right for her.
For example, Miss B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover  - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. And she seems to have had a need 
for the cover. It wouldve paid out for a successful sickness or unemployment claim for up to 
twelve months. And from what Miss B has told us, she wasnt entitled to any work sickness  
or redundancy pay from her employer. Shes said her family  couldve helped pay her credit 
card instead.  But other  peoples  circumstances and ability to help can change.
Miss B says she shouldve  been  given an explanation of the insurance together  with its 
costs. And I think its possible the information  Lloyds gave Miss B about  the PPI and its costs 
wasnt as full or as clear  as it shouldve been. But I dont  have enough to say that Miss B 
didnt want the cover at the time she took it. And it seems like the PPI wouldve been  useful  
for Miss B, for all the reasons Ive already  given  above. So, on balance, what  I have doesnt 
persuade me that better information about  the PPI would have put Miss B off taking it.
What Ive said above means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss B. But Lloyds has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Miss Bs points - including what shes said about Lloyds not telling her 
about the commission  but this doesnt  make  me think  Lloyds failed to tell her the PPI was 
being added. So, for this reason and all the others Ive already given above, these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Ref: DRN47186603Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4718660