K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Total Mortgage  Protection  Plans taken out in 2008  and 2009.  Ms F 
says Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the plans. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The plans included payment protection insurance  (PPI),  life cover and critical illness cover.  
Halifax says the life and critical illness cover  elements of the first plan were mis-sold. It has 
offered a refund for these. So for the first plan what Ive said in the rest of this section refers 
only to the PPI element of the plan.
Ive decided the plans werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Ms F says Halifax pressured her. She says it emphasised the importance of protection  in her 
circumstances. And questioned  how shed  cope with sole responsibility for the mortgage and 
a dependent if she were  critically  sick, for example. But I dont think  it was wrong for Halifax 
to take into account  Ms Fs circumstances and highlight potential shortfalls in her cover  
even if getting  cover like this wasnt why Ms F had approached Halifax.
From what  we know of how Halifax normally sold plans  like Ms Fs, I think Halifax would 
normally make it clear  the plan didnt  have to be taken and give a customer  like Ms F a 
choice about taking it. What Ms F has said makes me think  things werent any different here. 
And Im not persuaded that what shes described means she was pressured into agreeing  to 
the cover  or not really  given a choice about it. So, based on what I have,  on balance I think 
Halifax likely made it clear  the plans were  optional and Ms F chose  to take them  out.
Halifax recommended  the plans to Ms F so it had to do more and check  the plans were  right 
for her. And based  on what  Ive seen of Ms Fs circumstances at the time, I think the plans 
were right for her. For example Ms F wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  The PPI was to help with the 
mortgage payments  if Ms F couldnt work  due to disability  or unemployment. It would  pay out 
for up to twelve months for a successful  claim.  And Ms F has told us she wouldve received 
work sick pay or redundancy benefits of less than six months  full pay. So the benefit couldve 
helped Ms F at what could be a difficult time if she were unemployed or too sick to work.
Ms Fs mortgage would  decrease over time. The life and critical illness cover she took on the 
later policy was on a level basis. But, from what Ms F has told us, when she came to sign 
the papers it turned  out that for a little bit more she could get the level figure rather  than the 
reducing one. And this made sense to her at the time in her circumstances. So, with this in 
mind, I dont  find Halifax at fault for selling Ms F this cover on a level basis.
Also I dont think Halifax was wrong  to recommend  that Ms F have life cover  and critical 
illness cover  to protect the mortgage in her circumstances.  Ms F has told us she had existing 
endowment cover in place. But I havent seen enough to make me think this matched Ms Fs 
mortgage term or covered her mortgage amount. So Im not persuaded it was adequate or 
Ref: DRN45008092appropriate alternative cover or made Halifaxs  advice to take the plans unsuitable. And 
bearing in mind what Ms F has said about  paying  more for level cover,  what I have doesnt 
persuade me the plans were unaffordable  for Ms F when Halifax  recommended them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms F about  the plans wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive explained that I think Ms F chose  to take the cover  so it looks  to me like she 
wanted this sort of cover at the time.  And, for the reasons  Ive given, it seems like the cover 
would have been useful in Ms Fs circumstances. So, taking everything into account, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Ms F off taking out the cover.
Ms F says she cashed in her existing endowment on Halifaxs  advice when it recommended 
the plans. But I havent seen enough to make me think that Ms F did cash  in an endowment  
at the time on Halifaxs advice. Ive thought about  all Ms Fs points. But with what Ive said 
above in mind and for the reasons Ive already  given  these dont points change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the plans were  mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt  need to refund 
everything Ms F paid for them. But, for the PPI elements, Halifax has already offered  to give 
Ms F back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think Halifax needs  to do anything  more for 
the PPI. Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms F this now Ive issued my final decision.
what Halifax needs to do for the life and critical illness elements of the first plan
Halifax should pay back to Ms F what she paid for the life and critical illness  cover  on the 
first plan. Halifax should also pay Ms F simple interest at 8% per year on each payment from 
when she paid it until when she gets it back.  Halifax has to take basic rate tax off this 
interest. Ms F can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold and Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all the cost of 
the plans to Ms F. But Bank of Scotland Plc has to pay back what Ms F paid for the life and 
critical illness cover on the first plan with interest like Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4500809