K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent him money  that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
Mr C wants Uncle Buck to refund all the interest that he paid on loans 
background
Mr C took out seven loans with Uncle Buck between January 2015 and March 2016.  A 
summary of the lending  is below:
Loan Date of Loan Date repaid Amount of 
LoanInstalments Highest monthly repayment
1 14/01/2015 26/01/2015 £250 1 £276
2 02/02/2015 26/02/2015 £225 1 £270
3 07/03/2015 26/03/2015 £425 1 £486
4 29/03/2015 26/06/2015 £345 3 £170
5 09/07/2015 25/09/2015 £560 3 £258
6 11/01/2016 24/03/2016 £250 3 £114
7 25/03/2016 outstanding £800 3 £411
 
Mr C says that he had a number of late payments on his other loans and was stuck in a 
cycle of payday lending.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld in part. He thought that 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have agreed  loans five to seven. So the adjudicator recommended  that 
Uncle Buck  refund the interest  and charges that Mr C had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator asked Uncle Buck to remove any negative information about loan five from 
Mr Cs credit file. The adjudicator recommended that Uncle  Buck remove loans six and 
seven entirely from Mr Cs credit file. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  thinks  that by 
removing the information about some of the loans from Mr Cs credit file, it will give a false 
picture of his credit history.
Uncle Buck  says that Mr C made some factual  mistakes in his complaint as it couldnt  find 
any evidence of late payments on his credit  file.
Uncle Buck  says that just because a customer borrows again  after repaying an earlier  loan 
isnt necessarily a sign that theyve become  reliant  on short term lending or that the loans 
are unaffordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN43570272Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to four. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr C had 
with Uncle  Buck, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loans.
Ref: DRN43570273loan five
By loan five, Mr C had been borrowing  regularly  from Uncle Buck.  Having borrowed £250 for 
loan one, Mr C now asked  to borrow more than twice this amount. And Mr C took out loan 
five within  a couple of weeks of settling  loan four.
The fact that Mr C had switched from single payday loans to instalment  loans  might  have 
been an indication  that he was struggling with his finances. And taking the overall picture of 
repeated and largely increasing lending, I think that Uncle Buck  shouldve  reasonably  been 
aware of the possibility  that Mr C might have been  having problems managing  his money.  In 
the circumstances, I dont think that Uncle  Buck shouldve agreed loan five.
Uncle Buck  points to the fact that Mr C kept up with his repayments as an indication of his 
financial stability but I dont consider  this necessarily means that Mr C did so in a sustainable 
way  that is without  borrowing elsewhere.  This is borne out by the fact that Mr C was 
borrowing money from a rolling credit  provider and at least  one other  short term lender 
around this time. 
I consider that its reasonable to uphold Mr Cs complaint about  loan five.
loans six and seven
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have given Mr C any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Cs borrowing suggested  that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr C had taken out in just 12 months.  Although there was a 
gap between repaying loan five and six, given Mr Cs previous borrowing pattern, I dont 
think that this break was sufficient for Uncle  Buck to conclude  that Mr C had moved on from 
whatever situation  had required  his earlier loans.
I think this pattern of lending was an indication that Mr C might  be having difficulties 
managing his money and was using short term loans for everyday  living  costs rather  than 
one-off expenses.
Mr C went on to take out his highest loan - £800  the day after he repaid loan six. So Uncle 
Buck should  have realised that it was more likely than not Mr C was reliant on short term 
lending and needed to borrow further  to fill the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving 
in his finances. 
Although the amounts that Mr C borrowed sometime fluctuated Mr C was making loan 
repayments for more  than 11 months out of the 14 month period since  hed taken out his first 
loan. So Mr C wasnt making  any real inroads into what he owed Uncle  Buck and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged. This meant  that Mr C had been paying  large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect; service a debt to Uncle Buck over a long period.
Ref: DRN43570274I think that Mr C lost out because Uncle Buck continued to lend money from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Uncle Buck money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about  loans five to seven and I still consider its fair to require 
Uncle Buck  to amend his credit  file.
As Mr C has had the benefit of the money lent to him, I agree that its fair to allow Uncle  
Buck to apply the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loan seven. But if Uncle  
Buck wants  to do this, it will first need to buy the outstanding debt back from the third party 
that it has sold it to.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr C paid on loans five to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan seven;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan seven 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr C**; 
remove any negative information  that it has recorded about loan five from Mr Cs credit  
file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six onwards is negative.  So all entries about  loans six and seven should be removed 
from Mr Cs credit  file.
I understand that Uncle Buck has sold loan seven to a third party.  Uncle Buck  should  buy the 
debt back before doing what  Ive said above.  But if this isnt possible, Uncle  Buck should (in 
addition to the above if necessary);
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr C has already paid to the third party,  plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and 
direct  the third party to remove any information  about loan seven from Mr Cs credit  
file once the debt is settled.
But if Uncle Buck  doesnt  buy the debt back then it cant offset the refund against  the 
outstanding principal balance due on loan seven unless  Mr C agrees to this.
Ref: DRN43570275*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Uncle  
Buck intends  to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding balance, it must  do so after 
deducting the tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding principal balance,  I remind  
Uncle Buck  of its obligation to treat Mr C sympathetically and reasonably  in any repayment  
discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019. 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4357027