K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained about a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold her in October 2000.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28th March 2019,  where I concluded that I was minded to 
not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
In summary,  I found:
Mrs G applied for a store card in October  2000. At the same time a PPI policy  was 
added. The policy  covered her against  accidents, sickness  and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Mrs G. I 
drew that conclusion based on what we know of how these  policies were  sold at the 
time. There was not very much sales documentation and both parties recollections were 
not detailed due to how long ago the sale took place.
There may have been shortcomings in the way FICL sold the policy. But after careful  
consideration I could  not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have affected 
Mrs Gs decision  to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mrs G would have  necessarily  declined the policy  if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Mrs G had a medical condition but I didnt think this would have put her off from having 
the cover  as she said it was controlled and she didnt have time off work for it.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint  and I do not make any award 
against Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4817148