K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with Aviva  Insurance Limiteds actions about their boiler  
breakdown cover.
Another company  is involved  in this complaint, but as Aviva  are responsible for any claims 
Ive only referred to them.
Background
In October  2017 Mrs P took out boiler  breakdown cover.  This cover included a health check 
on the boiler. The health check  was carried out on 16 December 2017  and when this was 
completed the engineer said there  was damage  to the flue, and a combustion  problem.
Mr P had boiler breakdown cover with Aviva before  and had an annual service  in 
August 2017.  After  this finished,  they took out another policy,  but this time in Mrs Ps name. 
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that the problems with the boiler werent  spotted  earlier,  and are 
concerned about  potential  consequences. Theyve  said if this was picked up during the 
August 2017 service  they wouldnt have been  left without hot water or heating  during the 
winter season.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy at how they were treated by Aviva   with calls not being  
returned, an engineer not turning up to an arranged appointment, and being told the wrong 
information about how long itll take for this matter to be resolved.
Aviva replied, and accept  the problem with the flue should have been picked up during the 
visit in August 2017. But under Mr Ps policy the issue wouldnt have been covered. And they 
offered £100.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept this. They said theyd had to spend money on alternative 
methods of heating, and wanted Aviva to pay £605   cost of repairs at £700, minus the 
excess on the policy of £95. They also said their family were at risk of carbon monoxide 
poisoning during this period.
So they asked  us to look into things. Our case handler did so, and felt ultimately Aviva had 
made a fair and reasonable offer. As Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this, its been passed  
to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about this complaint I think there are three sections that need  to be 
addressed:
Should the cost of the repairs be covered under Mr Ps policy
Should the cost of the repairs be covered under Mrs Ps policy
Mr and Mrs Ps overall concerns
Ref: DRN44635402Mr Ps policy
Aviva have accepted  they should have realised there was damage to the flue when  they did 
the annual boiler service  in August 2017. Because of this, I need to consider whether they 
would have been responsible for the repairs at the time under the contract of insurance  Im 
not considering  the annual service itself.
Having looked  at the policy terms Im can see any repairs  wouldnt have been covered. The 
boiler is defined  as:
Domestic gas central heating boiler (boiler) the private domestic gas central  heating  
boiler, supplying  your property, fired by natural gas, with a permissible  output  of up to 60 
kW/hr This includes from the boiler  isolating valve, including all manufacturers fitted 
components within the boiler together with the pomp, motorised valves, thermostat, timer, 
temperature and pressure  controls
As the flue is external to the boiler,  it cant be considered part of the boiler  and therefore 
doesnt fall under the definition of a boiler  in the policy.
This means  that, even if Aviva had identified the fault at the time, it would have been 
Mr and Mrs Ps responsibility to pay for the repairs.
Mrs Ps policy
Mrs P had a boiler health check completed in December 2017. The evidence Ive seen from 
Avivas engineers very strongly suggests that the damage to the flue was there  when the 
annual inspection was carried  out under Mr Ps policy.
Mr and Mrs P have  argued it could have  been  there after theyd taken  out the policy.  I agree  
its possible, but Im more  persuaded by Avivas engineers  reports.
This means  I think  its reasonable for Aviva not to pay for the repairs  under Mrs Ps policy  
either  because I think its more likely than not that the damage was there prior to Mrs P 
taking out her policy.
Mr and Mrs Ps overall concerns
Mr and Mrs P have  made a number  of arguments about what could  have happened  and the 
potential consequences  of this issue. One of those relates to the possibility their family could 
have been subjected to carbon monoxide poisoning. 
This would clearly be an extremely serious  issue  but theres no evidence this has 
happened. And I can see Mr P told our case handler  they have carbon monoxide  detectors 
in the house. I do understand Mr and Mrs Ps point here, but our role generally is to put 
people back in to the position  they otherwise would have been  in, had an error  not occurred. 
Because this didnt  happen I wont be awarding compensation for it.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the length of time its taken for Aviva to 
respond to their complaint. Clearly they would have been happier with a quicker response  
but financial businesses  are allowed eight weeks to investigate and resolve  an issue.  
Mr and Mrs P have  argued Aviva went over this. But I can see Aviva were in regular  contact 
with Mr and Mrs P  so I make  no award for this.
Ref: DRN44635403Mr and Mrs P have  also raised other concerns, such as:
The flue being  missed  during  the annual service under Mr Ps policy
Missed appointment  in December 2017, under Mrs Ps policy, where Mr P had to 
take time off work  Mr Ps mentioned his daily rate and said while hes not claiming 
for that it was inconvenient.
Phone calls not being returned when they should have been
Aviva have offered  £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by these  points. But as 
weve explained to Mr and Mrs P  these points relate directly to the annual  service (for 
Mr P) and the boiler health check (for Mrs P) and arent contracts of insurance. That means  I 
dont have the power to consider them as part of this complaint, but am including  this 
information for completeness.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied Aviva  wouldnt  have been responsible for the 
cost of repairs to the flue under Mr Ps policy.  And as the damage was pre-existing when 
Mrs P took out her policy  Aviva have acted  reasonably in not agreeing to meet  the repair bill.
If Mr and Mrs P wish to accept Avivas offer of £100, they should get in touch with Aviva 
directly.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4463540