K822xcomplaint
Miss U and Mr R complain about  the premium MD Insurance Services Limited have asked 
them to pay for a building warranty and about the scope of that warranty.  
background 
In 2010, Miss U and Mr R agreed a new home  warranty with MD Insurance  Services Limited 
to cover two houses they were building on one site.
The premium agreed at that time,  based  on the information provided by Miss U and Mr R, 
was just over £5,000.  The warranty  period of ten years would begin once the build was 
complete.
In 2019, after the build  was complete,  MDIS informed Miss U and Mr R that the premium 
would be increased  by over £7,000. And they said the warranty  would not cover the garages 
at the properties,  because  they were made of green oak  a material  their technical material  
made clear was not covered.
Miss U and Mr R complained to MDIS about  the increased premium. They  said theyd been 
quoted a price  at the outset and had never  been told - throughout the time of the build  that 
this might vary. 
And they also said the garages should  be covered   they had been  subject  to site inspection  
and audit by MDIS  surveyors  and, again, no-one had ever suggested they were outside the 
scope of the warranty.
MDIS didnt uphold Miss U and Mr Rs complaint. They said their technical manual was clear 
green oak wouldnt  be covered.  And they said the premium was increased for two reasons. 
First, because the time it had taken  to complete construction  of the properties meant they 
posed a greater risk. And second  to bring  the price in line with current  rates.
Miss U and Mr R werent happy  with this response  and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought MDIS had made mistakes which they should put right.
He thought the version of the technical manual which  applied  at the relevant time made no 
mention of green oak not being covered. So, the garages should be covered under  the 
warranty. 
He also thought that although the increase in the premium was justifiable, MDIS should have 
mentioned the possibility  of an increase to Miss U and Mr R during the time of the build  
when they had continued to carry out inspections and audits at the site. And he felt Miss U 
and Mr R should be paid £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by MDISs 
oversight. 
Miss U and Mr R disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.  They  believe 
MDIS should provide  the warranty at the originally quoted price.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41584972Ill deal with the simplest  issue first. In response  to our investigators view,  MDIS have  said 
that if Miss U and Mr R do go through with the warranty, they will cover the garages. 
Green oak is mentioned  in the recent versions  of their technical manual. But it wasnt in 2010 
when Miss U and Mr R began the build. And it hasnt been mentioned at site visits  or in 
any other way  by MDIS since then.  So, I think  its entirely fair and reasonable for the MDIS 
warranty to provide cover for the garages.
Ill turn now to the increase in the premium.  The evidence here suggests  to me that MDIS 
are entitled  to ask for an increased payment  from Miss U and Mr R. I know  that will 
disappoint Miss U and Mr R, but Ill explain my reasons for coming to that conclusion.
We have a copy of the contract information form completed by Miss U and Mr R before 
MDIS provided a quote for the warranty. This was signed by them in April 2010. They  say in 
that form that the approximate end date for the build  is 1 December  2010.
Miss U tells us she cant remember adding that information to the form, but its in the same  
handwriting as the rest of the information  on the form  and shes signed  the bottom of the 
form. So, Im satisfied  its very likely that was the information provided to MDIS.
The form is slightly confusing and/or has been  completed in a confusing  way because in 
response to an earlier  question, Miss U appears  to say that the two phases of the build begin 
on 14 March 2010 and 1 March 2011.
That said,  the later question about the completion date is clear and asks the applicant to 
complete  this section  in respect of the phase  terms are required for. And Miss U says the 
approximate completion  date is 1 December 2010.
In any case, the build wasnt reported as completed  to MDIS until 2019.  So even if MDIS had 
realised the possible  contradiction in the information  provided and had asked Miss U and 
Mr R about this, I am reasonably certain  they wouldnt  have  said the completion date for all 
phases would be in 2019. Miss U and Mr R have been clear that the build took much  longer 
than they anticipated at the time due to unforeseen personal circumstances over the 
following years.
After theyd received  that form, MDIS sent a quotation acceptance form to Miss U and Mr R. 
This was signed by Miss U and dated 14 April 2010. Immediately under the signature box, 
the following  paragraph appears  headed in bold and in capitals:
IMPORTANT  INFORMATION, PLEASE READ 
By signing this document you are confirming that any information provided  to 
generate this quote is accurate and correct. Please be aware that should our site 
inspections indicate  that there are inaccuracies  in the information you have  supplied  
us with, your quotation may be revised  or withdrawn.
Of course,  at the time, Im sure Miss U and Mr R thought the information they provided was 
accurate. However,  this paragraph would or should  have alerted them to the fact that the 
quotation was based on the facts as presented - and might change if and when those facts 
changed. It also justifies MDIS revising  their quote when it became apparent the completion  
date wasnt as anticipated.
Ref: DRN41584973Miss U and Mr R were  also made  aware  of the relevant Terms of Business by MDIS. This 
document says that in accepting the quote,  the customer is agreeing  to the terms of 
business. And says if the customer is unsure about any of those terms he or she should 
contact MDIS   and contact details are provided.
Under the heading Your Responsibilities , this document says:
You are responsible for providing the complete and accurate information which  
insurers require in connection with any proposal  for insurance cover. This is 
particularly important before taking out a policy, but it also applies throughout the life 
of a policy. If you fail to disclose information  or misrepresent any fact which  may 
influence the insurers decision  to accept the risk or the terms offered,  this could 
invalidate the policy and mean  that claims will not be paid..
It goes on to say:
You must inform us immediately of any changes in circumstances which  may affect  
the services provided  by us or the cover provided  by your policy. If you are unsure 
about any matter  please contact us for guidance.
As I say, Im not suggesting Miss U and Mr R provided information  they knew  at the time to 
be false. The build was delayed by unforeseen circumstances. And I can understand if they 
didnt remember to inform  MDIS about  the new completion date(s) as the delays  occurred.
However, I dont think MDIS can be accused  of not making it very clear  at the outset that the 
terms offered  including  the premium - might be changed if and when circumstances 
changed. 
Nor do I think theres anything inherently  unfair  in that. MDIS made a calculation  of the risk 
based on the information provided  in good faith - at the time. That calculation  changed on 
the basis of the new information about  the completion date. And so with increased risk, they 
increased the premium   which  is to be expected.
Miss U and Mr R say the contract didnt include a deadline date for the build to be 
completed. And throughout the relationship between them   which  was on-going  between  
2010 and 2019 because  MDIS were  monitoring the build throughout that time  MDIS never 
advised them that the estimated end date in the contract information they provided had 
passed or that that might affect the premium for the warranty  period.
I can certainly see this from Miss U and Mr Rs point of view. And I agree with our 
investigator that MDIS should have brought this to Miss U and Mr Rs attention  much  earlier  
 in fact, as soon  the original completion date had passed. 
Thats why Im going to agree with our investigators  view that MDIS should  provide £350 in 
compensation to Miss U and Mr R. Their expectations about the premium were 
disappointed. And it must have come as a shock and caused some stress to be told about 
the revised premium  very abruptly only once the build was completed.
However, I dont think that means  MDIS should honour the original quote for the warranty 
premium. The key question for me is what would have happened  if MDIS had done what 
they should have done and told Miss U and Mr R much sooner that their premium  was likely 
to be reviewed and increased when the build took significantly longer than expected.
Ref: DRN41584974Miss U and Mr R believe  that if they had been told sooner, they would have had the option of 
looking elsewhere for warranty cover. On the face of it, thats  true. But Im not convinced  
theyd have been able to secure cover at a much cheaper rate than that which  MDIS are 
now offering.
If Miss U and Mr R had changed insurers at any stage before the build was completed,  there  
would inevitably have  been costs associated with cancellation of the warranty  with MDIS and 
with any additional  site inspections the new insurer  wished to carry out.
I think its very likely  Miss U and Mr R would also have been  asked for their project plans  
including the timescale for the build.  
If Miss U and Mr R had estimated this accurately  as it turned  out  and said the build 
would only be completed in 2019, I suspect  they would have been quoted a relatively high 
premium for the warranty, if indeed  the insurer were willing  to offer a warranty at all. Other  
insurers risk calculations  are likely  to be similar to MDISs. 
 
If their estimated completion  date had again  been wrong  through no fault of their own,  I 
should add  because their personal  circumstances which caused the build to take so long 
still werent fully foreseen at the time,  I suspect  theyd  be in the same  position now with the 
new insurer as they are with MDIS. The new insurer would have reviewed the originally 
agreed premium in light of the incorrect completion  date.
On balance, Im satisfied Miss U and Mr R wouldnt be in a significantly better position now if 
MDIS had warned them much earlier that the premium would be reviewed  and likely  
increased. In other words, whats driving the price of the premium up here is not what  MDIS 
may or may not have  done between 2010 and 2019,  its the fact the build took so long to 
complete. 
Whichever insurer Miss U and Mr R buy a warranty from, that insurer  will take into account  
the fact that the build was planned originally to finish in 2010  or not long after, bearing in 
mind the confusion about phase dates in the original application  and didnt in fact finish  
until 2019. Insurers are more likely than not to think the risk profile associated with the 
properties is increased because of that fact.
So, in summary,  I dont think its unfair for MDIS to review the risk profile  - and the premium 
 in light of the changed  circumstances. And I dont think their failure to mention this earlier 
constrained Miss U and Mr Rs real options  to the extent  that they are significantly worse  off 
now than they might have  been.
I also dont think its unfair  for MDIS to take into account the fact that a ten-year warranty to 
start in 2019  costs  more than it would have  cost in 2010. I cant  imagine theres  any other  
product or service where a customer might reasonably expect to agree a purchase,  at a 
particular price, and say theyd complete the purchase in a few months  time  and then 
expect the same price  to apply when they eventually took the product or service  ten years  
later.
Im aware that MDIS have  offered to refund that part of the premium which Miss U and Mr R 
have already paid should  they chose not to go through with the warranty.
Ref: DRN41584975Im also aware that if Miss U and Mr R do choose to proceed, MDIS need to carry out a final 
inspection and issue a certificate of approval  before the warranty  takes effect.
To be absolutely clear,  my decision  is that MDIS should pay Miss U and Mr R £350 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by their failure  to tell them much sooner that 
the delayed completion date would  mean  a review of  and likely increase in - the premium.  
That compensation should be paid whether  or not Miss U and Mr R  and indeed MDIS  
decide to go ahead with the warranty.
If both parties do go ahead with the warranty, it should provide cover for the garages at the 
properties.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss U and Mr Rs complaint in part.
MD Insurance Services Limited must pay Miss U and Mr R £350 in compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
And if the warranty is taken out, it should cover  the garages at the properties. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4158497