K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1995. Mr M says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr M says he never knowingly asked for PPI and it was added  without his permission.
Barclays say it cant confirm how the credit card and PPI were sold, but assumed it was 
done in branch. Mr M says the sale was done  by post. Whether  the sale took place in branch  
or by post doesnt affect my decision on the complaint  though.
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mr Ms application  form for the credit card.  This application  
form included a section  on PPI, with a short explanation of what it covered and yes or no 
boxes to be ticked to show whether Mr M wanted to take it out. And the yes box has been 
ticked.
Mr M has said that the application  form didnt give a detailed explanation of the PPI and so 
he couldnt make an informed decision on whether to take it out. And I agree that the 
application form couldve given more information  about the PPI. But I dont think  theres  
anything on the form which  suggested Mr M had to have  the PPI. And if Mr M didnt want  the 
PPI based on the information he was given, I think he couldve left that section blank, or 
ticked the no box.
So I think Barclays made it clear  to Mr M on the application form that he had a choice about 
the PPI. And I think Mr M chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Mr M says Barclays didnt  recommend  the PPI to him, as the sale was done by post.  
Barclays says it cant be sure whether  it did recommend the policy, so has assumed that it 
did. If Barclays did recommend the PPI, it wouldve  had more responsibilities during the sale, 
which would be to Mr Ms benefit. So, as Barclays accepts that it may have recommended 
the PPI, Ive assessed the complaint as if it did. This means  Barclays  had to check  that the 
PPI was right for Mr M.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI was right 
for him. For example, he doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the likely 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy couldve  paid out for longer than hes told 
us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant  he didnt need to rely on 
any savings he had to make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclays had to give Mr M clear information about  
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him about the costs,  benefits and main 
Ref: DRN46745832exclusions of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for the same  reasons I 
think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for him if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.
Mr M has said the credit card was mainly to be used for business expenses which wouldve 
been refunded  to him by his employer, and so he didnt need the PPI. But paying back  the 
balance of the credit card would ultimately have  been Mr Ms responsibility.  So I still think he 
could have found the protection the policy offered appealing. And so I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking it out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4674583