K821x#15Complaint
Mr R has complained about advice he received from Portafina  LLP to transfer a defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his employer to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr R is being represented by a third party  but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr R.
Background
Mr R was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
A fact-find  was completed which noted  that Mr R was 45 years  old, single with one child and 
earned £40,250 per annum. He held around £500 in cash  savings and £100 in stocks  and 
shares. He didnt have  any other investments or savings. It was noted Mr R held retained  
benefits within a final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS), which had offered a 
Cash Equivalent  Transfer  Value (CETV)  of £213,613. This was projected to provide a 
pension of £20,939 per annum from age 60. The fact-find recorded that Mr R wanted  to 
retire at age 65.
Mr R held a separate  pension  policy with another provider which did not form part of the 
review. No details were recorded for this plan.
Portafina carried out a risk-profiling  exercise  and determined  Mr R had an adventurous 
attitude to risk. Portafina wrote to Mr R on 13 February 2015 and recommended that he 
transfer his OPS benefits into a new SIPP. It also said that the investment advice would be 
provided to him by Firm C.
The CETV was transferred to the new SIPP on 14 April 2015 and the following investments  
were made that same month, with the remainder held as cash:
UCIS
Strategic Residential  Development  £10,100
Real Estate Invest USA  £10,100
Motion Picture Global  £10,100
Lakeview UK Invest  £10,100
Brisa Investments Plc  £10,100
Biomass Investments Plc  £10,100
Regulated Investments
Marlborough ETF Global   £10,134.59
VT iFunds Absolute Return Orange  £50,686.14
VT iFunds Absolute Return Indigo  £40,551.55
VT iFunds Absolute Return Green  £30,416.95
Ref: DRN43321552In 2018 Mr R complained  to Portafina  that the advice to transfer his OPS  benefits was 
unsuitable for him and had his needs  and circumstances been  considered,  the 
recommendation would not have been made. However, Portafina rejected  his complaint, 
saying the transfer was suitable for him and that they had provided all the required 
information to Mr R, which he accepted. It also said that it wasnt responsible for providing 
any investment advice, as this was the responsibility  of Firm C. Mr R then brought his 
complaint to this service.  
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He didnt think 
Portafina had sufficiently demonstrated that transferring Mr Rs OPS  benefits into a SIPP  
was in his best interests. He noted that Mr R was in his mid-forties and could not access  his 
benefits for several  years and there was no need for him to transfer at that time. He thought 
it was highly unlikely  that the required critical yield would be achieved and that Mr R was 
likely to be worse off in retirement. He also believed that the transfer  was made  to facilitate 
unregulated investments and Portafina  was probably aware of this. Even if Portafina were  
not aware of this, they should have considered the underlying investments, as it was not 
possible to provide suitable advice  without knowing where the funds were going  to be 
invested. 
Portafina didnt  agree. It said the critical yield was not as relevant  as Mr R didnt  want to 
purchase an annuity. It said the lifetime hurdle rate had been used instead,  which they 
believed was achievable, based on their model  portfolio.  They did not agree that the correct 
advice was to leave Mr Rs pension plans in place.  Portafina maintained it should not be held 
responsible for the investment advice which was to be provided  by Firm C.
Because the parties have  been unable to agree, the case has now come  to me to make  a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr R to transfer  his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was supposed 
to provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated  firm to advise on and 
arrange Mr Rs underlying SIPP investments, I dont think  that meant Portafinas 
responsibilities ended  once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then 
made available for investment. I believe that as Mr Rs financial adviser, Portafina still had a 
duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated 
firm was going to be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out its own fund recommendations 
for the asset classes  Mr R should invest in and to what  extent, suggesting  that, due to his 
risk profile, Mr R invest in the following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 75%
Secured Structured  Bonds 15%
Ref: DRN43321553Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent volatile and therefore reduced the overall volatility of Mr Rs portfolio
The recommendations made up a model portfolio for an adventurous investor,  which 
Portafina satisfied  itself Mr R was. And its partly on this basis that, if Mr R invested  in line 
with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the relevant targeted  returns, Portafina 
concluded that transferring could increase his overall pension benefits and therefore  be 
worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr R it wasnt  providing  
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Portafina says that this alert was specific to situations where  the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Rs transaction from the 
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess  the 
overall suitability  of the proposed investments. Whilst  Ive given that possibility careful 
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances. 
Ref: DRN43321554I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable  investment advice  generally  requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Rs case). It further refers  to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases,  regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where  the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated  investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think this alert is relevant  to firms  in the position  of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014,  which  stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr R under the regulatory system.  So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Rs funds  would  be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr R. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr R to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Rs objectives  two of 
which were ownership and control  and a willingness to accept investment risk  and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Rs funds were  going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably 
Ref: DRN43321555linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr R would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  seem 
reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Rs transferred funds would  ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated 
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
Portafina also says that its advisers  carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company  directors, accounts and information  about previous 
complaints. It maintains  that Portafina followed FCA guidelines when only advising on the 
pension transfer  by performing the attitude  to risk assessment. It said Firm C wasnt  bound  
by this assessment  and could have recommended any investments they thought were 
suitable for Mr R. Portafina  says it was satisfied Firm C was qualified to provide investment 
advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to assess the pension transfer and the 
other to provide  investment  advice.
Portafina hasnt  provided us with evidence of the due diligence  it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina  had carried the general  due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in 
the alerts. The checks it made on Firm C weren't specific to the investments envisaged  for 
Mr R. I also havent seen  any evidence  that further  checks were  made  by Portafina to satisfy  
itself that the pension  transfer advice it was giving to clients  was aligned  with the investment 
advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the 
suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual  clients. But I think  it was also a 
reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with 
Firm C. This wouldve highlighted  any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned  advice, which 
could be identified and addressed.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Rs appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Rs best interests.  And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Rs funds  would be invested. 
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  makes it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. So, in the absence of 
Ref: DRN43321556Portafina knowing the investments Firm C intended  for Mr R, it couldnt provide him with 
suitable advice  to transfer his OPS.
As part of its duty of care to Mr R I consider that Portafina shouldve at the very least  asked 
Firm C at the outset for details of the model  portfolios  it adopted for various risk categories.  
And in doing so it ought to have  checked  these lined up with what it considered  to suit each 
risk group. Further to this Portafina shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio 
intended for Mr R and the proposed investments. I dont think  Portafina  couldve reasonably  
assessed the suitability of the transfer  it was recommending without doing so. 
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, a substantial  share  of Mr Rs 
SIPP was invested  in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings  are relevant here. 
Here it said that as well as UCIS only being  eligible for promotion to certain customers  
(generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer 
was deemed eligible  for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's 
exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Rs case, 
over a quarter, 28%, of his SIPP was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable for 
Mr R at all, let alone in the proportion invested. Theres  nothing  to indicate Mr R had the 
requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these 
types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr R at almost twice  the level of UCIS  funds  they had 
expected, it couldve  queried this, given  how at odds it was with what  it determined  an 
appropriate asset allocation for Mr R was.  
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Rs risk rating as adventurous and will 
explain why later. However,  I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve 
become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the transfer was 
therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr R being  exposed to more  risk than Portafina  
considered appropriate. 
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mr R aware of the situation so he could, if 
servicing rights had already been  transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective action 
himself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr R. It shouldve  asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr R that it couldnt recommend he transfer away  from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr R against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr R wouldve listened to it and not gone  ahead with the 
transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr R when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer  meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  was suitable for Mr R. 
And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems  to me that Firm C was in effect given the 
freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Rs SIPP was invested.
Ref: DRN43321557Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Rs funds were  ultimately  invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important  consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mr R wouldve  ultimately gone  on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer 
An OPS  typically has significant benefits  and guarantees.  Giving  up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
So, the starting point  is that a transfer  wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests  if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr R was 45 years old, employed and in good  health. He 
was a standard retail investor with twenty  years  until his intended  retirement age and could 
not access any pension  benefits for almost ten years. He had another  pension, which was 
not included as part of the review. He had minimal savings and investments. He was a home 
owner, with an outstanding  amount  on his mortgage. 
Before continuing,  I feel it is necessary to highlight a disparity in the information provided  by 
Mr Rs OPS and those  used by Portafina  in their suitability report. 
The retirement information provided by the OPS  stated that Mr R would receive a pension  of 
£23,992.78 per year without TFC, or £17,994  if the maximum TFC lump sum of £122,962 
was taken age 55. The suitability report however, stated he was giving up a lower  
guaranteed income of £20,939 from age 60. It did not say if this was with or without TFC.  It 
was also stated that Mr R would not be able to take TFC until age 65. 
At the time of the advice, the government  was reviewing the benefits available  from the 
OPS, with a view to making  some  changes.  These had not been formalised by that point and 
in early 2015, at the time of the report, Mr R couldve taken his benefits, in full, from age 55. 
This included the payment of TFC. Following the government review,  changes were 
implemented in late 2015 which increased  the age at which benefits could be paid in full, 
from 55 to 60. These changes were expected and I am satisfied that it is reasonable for 
Portafina to use the new higher age of 60 as the scheme retirement age. However,  recording 
the date at which TFC could be taken as 65 was clearly incorrect.  
As Portafina have not provided  a copy of the pension transfer  value analysis report  (TVAS), I 
cannot say why the projected income  figures  differ. It may simply be Portafina used a mid-
Ref: DRN43321558range figure which has assumed some  level of TFC, but not the maximum amount. 
However, I do not believe this difference has any significant effect on the advice and 
whichever figure is used, the level of income provided was significant,  for instance it is more 
than double the maximum state  pension payable. This is without taking into account any 
TFC, which  was substantial. As such, the level of income Mr Rs deferred pension  was 
projected to provide formed the majority of his future retirement income. Based on this, 
I think Portafina should have recognised the significance of Mr Rs OPS to his retirement  and 
proceeded with caution.
The report  showed  that a critical yield of 10.3% per year was required to match  benefits  from 
the OPS. But it did not make any allowance for advice, plan or other ongoing charges. This 
meant the growth  needed just to match the benefits being given up was understated. Like 
the adjudicator,  I feel the growth  required to provide  an increase in benefits for Mr R was too 
high to make  the transfer viable. 
Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a 
personal recommendation to transfer  away from a defined  benefit scheme, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which  may replicate the benefits being  given up from the defined 
benefits pension  scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think  its 
important to emphasise that the starting  point for the transfer advice in this case ought  to 
have been that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G).  So I think Portafina  ought to have made 
Mr R aware that it was in his best interest  to preserve his OPS  benefits.
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr R would  receive  a materially  higher pension  
at retirement as a result  of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where 
Portafina estimated  that, based  on Mr Rs adventurous attitude  to risk, his personal pension  
would grow at a rate of 7.76%. 
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield,  
saying it operated under the assumption  that Mr R wouldnt choose to purchase an annuity  
and instead preferred to take benefits  via income  drawdown. It argued that it knew 
drawdown was more suitable  for Mr Rs long-term objectives. Therefore, the critical yield 
was irrelevant. 
I dont agree with Portafinas position here and think it tends to underplay the importance of 
the critical yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle  rate. And although the fact-find 
recorded that Mr R preferred a drawdown  arrangement over an annuity and wanted 
flexibility, I dont think this was explored by Portafina  in any meaningful sense. I also dont 
think Mr R could say with certainty, having  at least 10 years before  he could access his TFC 
and around 15 years  before he planned  to retire, that he was definitely going to take his 
benefits via income  drawdown. So, I dont think it was right to make the assumption that he 
would, more likely than not, take his benefits  via drawdown when he retired. I also think 
Portafina ought to have  advised him that, it would be more  suitable for Mr R to secure a 
guaranteed income, particularly as this pension was to provide the majority of his retirement  
income. And so Portafina shouldve based  its comparison of benefits on the critical yield 
rather than the life time hurdle rate.
Ref: DRN43321559Portafina did not advise on how the funds were to be invested,  therefore the projections of 
performance based on its own model portfolios  were  not relevant in evaluating how likely it 
was Mr R would be able to achieve the hurdle  rate of 5.72%. As Portafina did not know  how 
the funds were to be invested, they were  not in a position to evaluate  the likelihood that a 
growth rate matching  their model  portfolios rate of 7.76%  would be achieved.
I am aware  that the hurdle rate is lower than the growth rate of 8% applicable for higher risk 
investors and Portafina recorded Mr Rs attitude to risk (ATR) as adventurous. However, 
Mr R had been classed  as having  an adventurous ATR based on the outcome of a third-
party risk profiling tool used by Portafina  and they had a duty to investigate  any 
inconsistencies in the fact-finding process. 
Portafinas report defines an adventurous investor as usually being  experienced investors,  
with high levels of financial knowledge and are happy to take on investment risk. They will 
readily take gambles and accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of 
long-term investment.
Mr R had £100 in shares  and no other investments. He could not be described as being an 
experienced investor. The fact find Portafina  completed on 23 December 2014 shows  that 
when Mr R was asked  about his tolerance  and capacity for loss, he confirmed that he could 
only accept losses of 10% and could afford to lose 10% of his pension. Neither of these 
responses are in line with an adventurous ATR. 
It would have been clear to Portafina that Mr R could not realistically be classed as an 
adventurous investor. Giving advice is not a tick box exercise  and the fact a risk profile  
questionnaire had marked him out as having a higher ATR should not have  overridden  the 
evidence the customer had provided to Portafina  about his own attitude to risk. 
Mr R stated in his complaint that he had a medium/balanced ATR. Given  the length  of time 
until retirement, I believe that he was able to accept medium risk investments.
As per the COBS guidance  applicable  at the time, 19.1.7:
When a firm advises  a retail client on a pension  transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients  attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved  to replicate the benefits  being given up.
Based on this, not only was the critical yield of 10.3% unachievable,  but the lower hurdle rate 
of 5.72% was also above the level of growth which could be expected  for a medium risk 
investor. 
The adjudicator has highlighted  the fact that Mr R was 45 and could not access his pension  
benefits until age 55 and Portafina  have  not offered any explanation why it was necessary  to 
transfer at this stage  of his life. It was stated  in the report that Mr R wanted the ability  to take 
his benefits flexibly  and at a different age to his ceding schemes  retirement age. However, 
the reasons given for this are contradictory.
The first Main stated objective said that Mr R Would like later retirement age to scheme 
normal retirement age, i.e. after age 60, which Portafina had established as the new 
scheme age. A few pages later however,  his first Key Financial Objective noted that he 
expressed the opinion that being  able to draw income from age 55 onwards would be a 
useful benefit  and that the flexibility to do so was important  to you.
Ref: DRN433215510The report  noted  that he believed he was likely to retire at age 65, whereas the Pension  
Client Factsheet completed by Firm C, which Portafina have provided  a copy  of, gives  a 
retirement age of 60. While this was completed with a third party,  it is further evidence  that 
the consumer  had no specific intended  retirement age which  could not be met through  
remaining with his OPS  and simply found  the idea of flexibility appealing. 
As noted by the adjudicator, the desire  for greater  flexibility is insufficient reason  on its own 
and there  was no explanation of why he wanted or needed to take his TFC before 60, or 
receive his pension after 60. There was also no benefit in transferring at this time, when he 
could not access  his pension for another 10 years.
The report  of February 2015 noted  that Mr R had concerns with his current scheme, as he 
believed that it may be changed. There was no record  of any discussion about  this issue  
with the consumer, for instance, how he thought it might be changed and what impact this 
could have on his plans for retirement.  In the absence of any investigation of this issue  by 
Portafina, I do not believe that an unspecified  concern about potential alterations  to a 
government backed  pension is a compelling  justification to recommend transferring  out.
For the avoidance of doubt, despite  the changes to the Mr Rs employers pension  in 2015, it 
is still possible for Mr R to take benefits before  age 60. If a member  wants  to take their 
income early, it can be paid out at a reduced  rate from age 55. So, I think Mr R wouldve  
been better off financially  by waiting until he was at, or close  to the age that he could take 
benefits before making any decision about transferring. I dont think he had any real need to 
transfer his pension at that time and expose his fund to unnecessary  risk.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability, and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have recommended the transfer  at all. 
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina,  Mr R would have 
gone ahead  with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances  in 
this case, I dont believe he would. Theres nothing to suggest that he was seriously  
considering transferring out of his OPS prior to being referred to Portafina  for a pension  
review. It is clear  from the available information that he had not given any serious thought 
about what he wanted to do with his pension and had not determined  at what  age he wanted 
to retire or take the benefits.
As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr R from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. 
Alternatively, had Mr R proceeded against such advice, Portafina  couldve discharged  its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr R wouldve  acted  against  the advice 
hed been given. 
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr R are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. Had it not been  for this unsuitable advice,  I dont believe he 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  of his OPS, or invested such  a large  share of his 
fund in UCIS. 
Ref: DRN433215511I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Rs 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Rs losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr R to Portafina. Portafina advised  
Mr R to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits  
to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr R to invest a significant share of his 
SIPP funds  in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  that it could  
reasonably limit its advice  to just the transfer  and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider 
the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr R on the investments. It was 
only as a result of Portafinas involvement  that Mr R transferred the funds  held in his OPS to 
the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant  on 
the funds being transferred first; if that hadnt  happened, Mr R couldnt have invested as he 
did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  This means that apportionment 
of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving  Mr R out of pocket. But I think its 
important to point  out that Im not saying Portafina  is wholly responsible  for the losses simply 
because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation.  My starting point as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr R suffered in 
transferring his existing  benefits to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational  but reflects the facts  of the case  and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Portafina to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the OPS.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB pension  transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance  of the decision.  If this is completed 
before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, Portafina must re-run  
Ref: DRN433215512the calculation  within a month  of the amended guidance being  published   ensuring that any 
shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly  made  up to Mr R. Portafina need 
only re-run the calculation once, to take account  of amendments currently  planned  by the 
FCA. Portafina does  not subsequently need  to recalculate following any further amendments  
the regulator might later make.
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr R in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  be paid directly  to Mr R as a 
lump sum after making a notional deduction  to allow for income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr R within  90 days  of the date
Portafina LLP receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes
Portafina to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Mr Rs representative.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Mr R £300  for the disruption to his retirement  planning.
As Ive said,  my aim is to return Mr R to the position he would have been in but for the 
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open  market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr R to provide  an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mr R to provide an undertaking,  
Ref: DRN433215513payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Mr R wouldnt have the SIPP. The SIPP  only exists 
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr R wish to move 
his investment portfolio)  and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments  need to be 
removed from the SIPP.  Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina  taking 
over the investments, or this is something that Mr R can discuss  with his SIPP provider  
directly. But I dont  know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr R an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
Determination and money award: I intend to require Portafina  to pay Mr R the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps  above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina
to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I can only require Portafina to
pay Mr R any interest  as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend  any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money  award is binding  on Portafina. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina. Further,  its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN433215514My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4332155