K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
On another note,  Miss M has also mentioned that BoS froze the account and were 
unsupportive when she fell into arrears.  Miss M would need to make a separate complaint to 
BoS about this issue  if she hasnt already done  so. To be clear, this decision is only dealing 
with whether BoS mis-sold the PPI policy.
background and summary to complaint
Miss M originally took out the mortgage in 1985  with her husband. Unfortunately Mr M died 
in 1994 and the mortgage was transferred into Miss Ms sole name.  However, there was no 
PPI covering the mortgage during this period. It wasnt until 1999 that Miss M took out the 
policy when she applied  for a further  advance.
In 1999 Miss M was a care worker.  Shes  told us that she would  only have received statutory 
sick pay if she was too unwell to work. Shes  also told us that she had no savings at the 
time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It would have paid Miss Ms mortgage repayments for 12 months 
per claim. The policy cost £8.14 per month.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative said:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs and the fact it was unlikely  you could make a successful claim meant  
the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means BoS should have told Miss M about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN41350892I issued my provisional decision in January 2020,  in which I said I was minded  not to uphold 
the complaint  and I gave the parties the opportunity to reply with anything  they wanted to 
add. Neither Miss M nor BoS responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The mortgage concluded prior to 2005.  That means  the unfair relationship provisions set out 
at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s140A of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA recently about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin  judgment, are 
not applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Mortgage Code  was a voluntary code followed by subscribing lenders and mortgage 
intermediaries. Whilst predominantly about  mortgage related matters, it also included some 
insurance related  commitments. Subscribing lenders (but not mortgage intermediaries) also 
agreed to comply with relevant codes including  the ABI Code (below).
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN41350893Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Miss Ms case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note under the 
Insurance Ombudsmans terms  of reference  to Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ms complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN41350894did Miss M know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional.
Due to the passage of time, BoS no longer has any paperwork available  from the time of the 
sale and is unable to confirm how Miss M took the policy out.
Miss M was arranging further borrowing in 1999 and it was at this time that she bought the 
PPI.
Miss M disputes that she would have bought the PPI in 1999. She believes that she took it 
out in 1994 when the mortgage  was transferred to her sole name. Miss M had also told us 
that she couldnt remember when she bought the policy.  Overall  Im not persuaded that 
Miss M has any clear recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given the time that has 
elapsed.
BoS has provided copies of internal  screenshots showing  the start date of the policy as 26 
August 1999 and evidence that the first premium  was taken on 1 September  1999. On 
balance, I am persuaded that Miss M took the policy out in 1999.
The PPI was set up to cover Miss Ms entire mortgage repayment.  As Miss M bought the 
policy a number of years after the mortgage had been running, I consider that she would 
have known that it was not a condition of the mortgage lending.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.
Did BoS provide  advice?
As BoS doesnt  know how it sold the policy to Miss M, in order to treat her fairly when 
dealing with her complaint,  it has assumed  that this was an advised sale. Miss M hasnt said 
whether she thought she was advised  to buy the policy or not.
If BoS did recommend  the policy to Miss M, it would have needed to ensure  that it was 
suitable for her. 
Miss Ms representative has said that she was suffering from depression at the time of the 
sale. We asked for some  evidence of this, however the doctors note that we received only 
details Miss Ms ill health in 2018.  Miss M herself said that she had an accident at work in 
2017 and was diagnosed  with depression shortly afterwards. Therefore I am not persuaded 
that Miss M had a pre-existing medical  condition at the time she decided to buy the PPI in 
1999. As such and because Miss M was employed  at the time, I dont think  she was caught 
by any of the significant exclusions  on or limits to the cover,  which might have made the 
policy unsuitable.
Miss M wouldnt  have received any sick pay from her job and she had no savings to fall back 
on. So I think she would have quickly had trouble in making her mortgage repayments  if she 
had been unable to work.  Overall Im satisfied  that Miss M had a need for the policy  and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have  been a difficult time.  So the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
Ref: DRN41350895the information
BoS had to give Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to make 
an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to her attention  
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions.
BoS hasnt been able to locate a policy document from 1999.  It has instead provided  the 
closest one available  to that date. This sets out a summary of the policy  terms and 
conditions and which I accept, on balance of probabilities applied to policies like Miss Ms 
incepted in August  1999. 
Overall, looking at the available evidence, Im not persuaded that BoS gave Miss M the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
Miss M recalls the sale taking place during a meeting in branch. I dont know  what BoS told 
Miss M about the PPI but I think its unlikely she would  have  agreed  to take it out without at 
least having a broad understanding  of the cover  it provided  that it would cover  her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment.  
And I think Miss M would have known shed have to pay something for the policy.
But it was BoSs responsibility  to draw to Miss Ms attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded BoS did enough  to do this. For example, its unlikely BoS adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think BoS gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. I 
have considered these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Ref: DRN41350896Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Miss M has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on BoS. 
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Miss M? To what extent did Miss M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that BoS did not do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Miss M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
Miss M says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. She also says weve just dismissed 
her testimony about her circumstances at the time.
Miss M had to decide  whether  to follow the advice to buy the policy by weighing  up in her 
own mind the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences 
if she didnt insure against  the risk of being  unable to work.
As Ive found above, I think Miss M chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.   So what  Miss M 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Miss M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss M knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, I dont know if BoS told her the exact premium at the point  she 
applied for the PPI. Having said that, Miss M paid for the policy for a few years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with her expectations, it is possible  she might have raised 
that with BoS at the time or reconsidered her decision. Overall I am not persuaded that 
Miss M would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been  given the exact figure 
during the meeting in which she agreed  to buy the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  (subject to time limits); 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss M be unable  
to do her own job or any occupation  in any capacity. 
Ref: DRN41350897I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have given Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to her should the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions - as mentioned above,  I havent seen any 
evidence that Miss M had any pre-existing medical conditions - and she was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  she had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
If Miss M had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any occupation  which  in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified for, 
it might  have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Miss M was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up any other occupation would also,  
in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss M would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think 
the policy could  have provided  a useful benefit at a difficult time. And in those circumstances 
I consider it more likely  than not that Miss M would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss M would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN41350898Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude that BoS should  pay Miss M compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss M and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it 
should have done.
my final decision
Overall, for the reasons  Ive set out above, I have decided not to uphold  this complaint and I 
make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135089