K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) failed to carry 
out adequate affordability  checks. And that if it had, Sunny wouldve seen that the loans 
werent suitable for Mr A.
Mr A wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  and charges that he paid and remove  any negative  
information about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr A took out six loans  with Sunny between October  2017 and April 2018. A summary  of his 
lending is below:
Number AmountDate 
borrowedDate repaid InstalmentsMaximum 
repayment
1 £200 10/10/2017 30/01/2018 6 £59
2 £100 08/11/2017 30/01/2018 6 £30
3 £100 17/11/2017 30/01/2018 6 £33
4 £200 19/11/2017 30/01/2018 6 £67
5 £100 19/03/2018 23/08/2018 6 £33
6 £100 14/04/2018 23/08/2018 6 £29
The adjudicator recommended that Mr As complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans four to six. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr A had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator also recommended  that Sunny remove any negative  information about loans 
four to six from Mr As credit file.
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that the monthly  repayments  
represented a small percentage of Mr As declared  monthly income. Sunny said that Mr A 
was able to repay all of the loans.
Sunny said that it took account  of the fact that Mr A was repaying more than one loan at the 
same time when assessing  affordability.  Sunny said that it offers customers a flexible 
product allowing them to take out up to four loans at any one time.
As Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation, the complaint has come  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
Ref: DRN44745352different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr A could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Mr A didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to three.  Because of this, 
I dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr A had 
with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loans.
loans four to six
When Mr A took out loan four his three  earlier loans  were still open. Although Sunny says 
that Mr A had been able to keep up with his repayments, I think  the fact that he was taking  
on new debt before settling his existing loans shouldve alerted  Sunny to the fact that Mr A 
was having problems managing his money.
Ref: DRN44745353I appreciate what Sunny  says about the flexibility of the loans and the fact that Mr A could  
have borrowed the money in one single loan rather than split across  four different loans. But 
I still consider the fact that Mr A had taken out three  of the four loans  with the space  of 11 
days was a strong indicator that Mr A was struggling with money  and couldnt afford to repay 
loan four  and any subsequent loans  sustainably.
Sunny points to a break in lending  between loans four and five. But I dont consider this was 
significant enough to be taken as an indication that Mr A had moved  on from whatever 
situation had required his previous loans. So it doesnt change  my decision to uphold Mr As 
complaint about  loans  four to six.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr A paid on loans four to six;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  that it has recorded about loans four to six from Mr As 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4474535