K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about a transfer that Metro Bank PLC completed for him.
background
Mr D said that he made  a transfer to someone he was paying regularly. He did this over the 
counter in a Metro store. He said he told the cashier the name of the person he wanted to 
send the money  to. The cashier told him that he had two payment instructions under the 
same name. Mr D said he asked for the money to be sent to the same account that he had 
been paying for the last several months. But he said that the cashier sent the money to the 
other account. And that account was closed. 
Mr D said that he asked  Metro to recall that payment, but it wouldnt. He said that the bank 
was just covering  its own back, with no sympathy  for his position. And it rushed him through  
the complaints  process, insisting that he made  decisions  straight away. It also rang at times 
that hed asked it not to, when he was working. He didnt think  that Metro had been fair. 
Metro said that Mr D had told it that hed transferred some money  into an incorrect  account. 
He had signed to request the payment  be sent to that account on 1 February. Metro had 
then processed a recall  request for him on 5 February, but was told that the money had gone 
into an open and active account in the name  of the intended beneficiary. So Metro  couldnt 
get the money back. 
Metro said that unfortunately, due to a backlog  of work, it didnt contact Mr D about  this until 
18 March. Metro said it was only then that Mr D explained that he had two payment 
instructions for this one person, and hed asked the cashier to send the payment to the 
account he transferred  money to regularly. But Metro said it had a signed  instruction from 
him to pay into this account. It also noted that its cashier had a different recollection of the 
transaction. 
Mr D complained. On 20 March, Metro said that it couldnt refund the amount he had 
transferred, because it had only processed Mr Ds own instruction. It offered him £50 to say 
sorry for what  had gone wrong. 
Metro said it was sorry that it had taken so long to get back  in touch with him about  the 
transfer. It said that Mr D could always have contacted it, if hed been  concerned.  And it said 
that it realised that a store manager  had then told Mr D either he needed  to accept the offer 
of £50, or it would be withdrawn. Metro said she shouldnt have done that. Metro also said 
that the offer of £50 was still open to Mr D, if he wanted to accept it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Metro  had done  everything he 
would expect it to do to try to get the money  back. He wouldnt  ask Metro to pay Mr D back 
the transferred  money when it went into an account held by the right person. 
Our adjudicator thought that a payment of £50 was a fair and reasonable offer based on the 
circumstances of this complaint. Our adjudicator said that Metro had accepted that it 
shouldnt have withdrawn  the offer of £50 that it had made. It doesnt usually do that. And it 
said that the offer was still open to Mr D if he wished to accepted it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Metro had called Mr D at times that he didnt want it to. 
Ref: DRN45189212Overall, our adjudicator thought that reinstating the offer of £50 was a fair resolution  to this 
complaint. He asked  Mr D to let him know if he wanted to accept  that. 
Mr D thought that Metro  should pay more than that, but Metro said it wouldnt. It thought that 
Mr D couldve  avoided the delay  in telling him about  the outcome of the money recall by just 
contacting it and asking. And it thought that Mr D would always have turned down its offer of 
£50 anyway, so the impact  on Mr D of giving him a deadline to make  up his mind on that 
was minimal. Our adjudicator said he still thought that £50 was fair. 
Mr D didnt agree with that. He said that the compensation that hed been offered didnt 
include anything to reflect  the fact that Metro had tried to withdraw the offer it had made, and 
tried to pressure him into accepting that offer. So he didnt think  that this was fair.
Because Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator, the case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr D transferred some money.  It went to the wrong account, but that account is also held 
by the person that he wanted  to pay. Metro  tried to recall that payment, but it wasnt  able 
to. Id seen what  Metro did then, and I thought that Metro did everything that I would 
expect it to, to try to recall that payment.
-Mr D said that this transfer went wrong because of something that Metros cashier did. 
Metro thinks that its likely  that Mr D wouldve mentioned this on his first call to the bank, 
if this is what had happened.  But I noted that Mr D has been making payments in this 
way for a while. And Metro accepted on a call that there was a mix-up  in communications 
between its cashier  and Mr D, when it offered him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. So I did 
think it was likely  to be partly  Metros fault that this money went  into a different account. 
-Because of the situation of the receiving account, the recipient didnt actually get the 
money. It may have  been used to pay some  outstanding debts instead. 
-I could understand  Mr Ds concerns about this, but although the recipient  hasnt  actually 
been able to access the money  themselves, that person has benefited from the money. 
So I didnt think it was reasonable  for me to ask Metro to pay Mr D back  the £300  now.
-Metro offered Mr D £50, but then it said that it would withdraw  the offer unless he 
accepted it, that day. Metro said that this was wrong, and it wouldnt usually withdraw an 
offer like this, or pressure someone  to take a decision within  24 hours. I thought  that the 
person that Mr D was talking to on that call, who told Mr D he had to accept the offer that 
day, was misinformed. She also told Mr D that the call she was making  to him wasnt  
recorded, and it was. Id listened to it. 
-Mr D has told us that he thinks Metro  had behaved unprofessionally. I thought that Metro  
did make  mistakes  in this case.  I thought  it was more likely than not that Metro was partly  
responsible for the transfer  that Mr D made  going to the wrong  account.  And I thought it 
was very unhelpful for Metro to seek to pressure Mr D to accept its offer.  I also thought 
Ref: DRN45189213that Metro did try to arrange to ring Mr D at a time when hed previously said he couldnt 
take a call. 
-Whilst I appreciated that Metro has said it will give feedback to the staff involved,  so 
hopefully this wont happen again,  I didnt  think  that made  up for what has happened to 
Mr D. I thought that Metros offer of £50 wasnt quite  enough  to make up for what had 
gone wrong in this case. I thought that £100 would be the right amount to make up for 
what had happened.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Metro accepted my provisional decision.  Mr D didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr D £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4518921