K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Santander UK Plc blocked  an international payment that had been made 
into his account.  
background
The international payment was made to Mr M on 26 March 2019.
On 27 March 2019 Santander  called  Mr M to enquire about the payment that had been sent 
to his account. It said it may need him to provide an invoice but would be in touch  if that was 
the case. 
The payment didnt credit the account so Mr M contacted Santander on 4 April to find out 
what was happening.  He was initially told there was no blocked payment but was then put 
through to the business complaints department and told the payment had been blocked. 
Santander wouldnt tell him why but asked him to provide an invoice  which he sent in 
immediately. 
The following  day Mr M spent more time on the phone  to the complaints department  where 
he says the staff member  was unsympathetic  and rude. After to speaking to a manager he 
received an apology and was told hed be compensated for the service hed received from 
the advisor. 
The issue  with the payment remained unresolved so Mr M contacted  our service. 
Santander sent Mr M a final response to his complaint on 12 April 2019 explaining that it had 
to adhere to legal  and regulatory checks, but that it would make the team dealing with the 
payment aware  of the severity  of the delay  and the potential consequences  if the payment 
wasnt released soon.  Santander recognised the poor service  Mr M had received on one 
particular call and paid him £50 in compensation, as well as refunding a £24 unarranged 
overdraft fee. 
The payment was released to the account  on 26 April 2019. 
Mr M remained unhappy due to the length  of time Santander held his payment and the lack 
of explanation as to why. He explained the impact this had on him including  financial 
damage to his business due to cashflow issues, as well as reputational damage as he 
couldnt pay his subcontractors on time. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but didnt  uphold it. He concluded that Santander 
was able to review the payment in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms 
and conditions of the account.  In relation to the service  Mr M received he explained  that 
Santander isnt obliged to give a reason for the review, so no error occurred there. But he 
said he thought  the compensation paid by Santander was fair for the service he received 
when calling. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators findings. He explained hed received payments from 
the well-known and legitimate source  previously, with no problems. He said that Santander 
may have  to follow regulations but taking  months to determine  his payment was legitimate, 
and not providing  any explanation as to why, wasnt appropriate. 
Ref: DRN47527292Because Mr M disagreed with the investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
Payment delay 
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory  obligations it must  meet  when providing 
account services to its customers.  These  are ongoing  so dont just apply at account  opening  
stage. To comply with these obligations,  it may need to review  accounts and the activity  
taking place on them. If Santander didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Im satisfied Santander was within its rights  review the payment into Mr Ms account and 
request information  from him in relation to this. It did so in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and, having reviewed the terms and conditions from the time, it did so in line with 
these too. Santander also wasnt obliged to tell Mr M the reason for the review and it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to. 
Mr M has explained how he was impacted by the delay in receiving  his payment, so Ive 
looked at whether Santander couldve acted any quicker than it did. But from everything Ive 
seen, Im satisfied the time taken was necessary and reasonable for Santander to conduct 
its review and meet its legal and regulatory obligations. 
So, whilst appreciate  the delay in receiving  his payment caused Mr M a significant degree of 
trouble and upset,  I cant say Santander  made any mistakes that mean  it should  compensate  
him for this. I understand Mr Ms feelings  around  Santanders actions and the perceived 
legitimacy of the payment, but the fact remains that it has legal and regulatory  obligations  to 
meet and its reasonable for it to take steps  to ensure it does so. 
Customer service  
Mr M is unhappy  with the service provided by Santander. He says it wouldnt give him any 
clear answers on what was happening with his payment or when he could expect it into his 
account. 
However, Ive already  explained that Santander  wasnt under any obligation  to tell Mr M why 
it had stopped the payment. And in order to comply  with the rules and regulations in place, 
the reviews can take an indeterminate amount of time. So, I think Santander staff acted 
correctly in telling Mr M they couldnt give a specific timeframe as to when  the payment 
would credit, rather than guess and give him unrealistic timescales that wouldve raised  his 
expectations. 
The tone of these  types of conversations can be different  from the usual customer service 
call, due to the nature  of what  is being  discussed and the limited  information the advisors 
can give. I appreciate it mustve been frustrating for Mr M. Having listened to various calls 
Mr M had with Santander, Im satisfied  that overall  the members  of staff remained 
Ref: DRN47527293professional. However, there was one call where I agree the advisor couldve been more 
empathetic to Mr Ms situation. Im satisfied  she was giving Mr M all the information  she 
could, but her tone wasnt what I would expect.  Santander has already paid compensation 
for this though  and I feel the amount is fair. 
Taking everything into consideration, I wont be asking Santander to take any further  action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4752729