K820x#14complaint
Mr P is complaining on behalf of V  a limited company  that Bennett Gould & Partners 
(Dorset) Limited (BGP) didnt make  it clear that he had to disclose that a company hed 
previously been  a director of had been  dissolved. This meant Vs commercial vehicle 
insurance policy was avoided. 
background
Mr P was previously a direct  of another company (R) which had a commercial vehicle 
insurance policy taken  out through BGP   a broker. The policy was due for renewal and as 
part of the renewal process, Mr P said that the name on the policy  needed to be changed to 
V.
One of Vs vehicles  was later stolen so V claimed for the loss on the insurance policy. But 
the insurer said that it had found  out that R had been liquidated. It said it wouldnt have  
insured V had it known this so it avoided  the insurance policy back  to the beginning and 
declined the claim.
Mr P complained to BGP  that it didnt make it clear that he had to disclose this. He says he 
answered everything to the best of his knowledge and belief and he thinks  its unfair  hes lost 
out.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said it was Mr Ps responsibility to ensure 
that the insurer had all the correct  information  it needed to assess whether it was willing  to 
provide cover. He also said that BGP  sent him a copy of the statement of fact which  clearly  
asked whether Mr P or any partners, directors or drivers currently in Vs employment,  either  
personally or in connection with any business in which they have been  involved been 
declared bankrupt. And the form said they hadnt.  The investigator said it was Mr Ps 
responsibility to check  that the information in this document was correct.  He ultimately didnt 
think BGP had done anything wrong.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He didnt agree that it was his responsibility to 
tell the broker  everything.  He said that he could only disclose the information  that was asked 
of him. So he said he cant be held responsible if the broker didnt ask him about previous 
liquidated companies. He said that hed had two previous liquidations since 2008 and at no 
point during the time he was insuring  with BGP was he ever asked  about  this.
Mr P also said that, on receipt of the statement of fact, he saw that it had the wrong business 
name on the document. At this point he stopped reading the document and queried  this with 
BGP. He said he BGP didnt send him revised documentation, so he had no reason to check 
the documentation. 
Mr P also says that he queried how long he would have to disclose this and he hasnt had a 
response to this. He said that this is a crucial  fact and no one has explained where  in law he 
had to disclose  his previous companys liquidation.  
As Mr P didnt agree,  the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN42790212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that Im only looking at the actions of BGP  in this complaint. A complaint 
about the insurers decision to avoid the insurance policy  has been considered under a 
separate complaint. So Im not looking at whether the insurers  decision to avoid the 
insurance policy was fair or not in this case.  In this decision Im looking at whether BGP 
acted fairly  and reasonably in respect  to its responsibilities to arrange an insurance policy.
V took out a commercial insurance policy. So the relevant  law in this case is the Insurance  
Act 2015.  This says that Mr P had a duty to make  a fair presentation of the risk when he 
arranged Vs insurance policy.  That means  it was Mr Ps responsibility to tell the insurer 
about anything  that would  affect its decision about  whether  to offer V a policy  and on what 
terms. 
However, BGP was acting  on Vs behalf  in arranging the policy. So it needed to ensure that 
it had all the correct  information to provide to the insurer. Mr P says that no point during the 
time BGP was arranging  insurance policies for him. was he ever asked about this. 
However, V and R are both separate limited companies. So, under our rules, as this 
complaint relates  to losses  V has incurred following the insurers decision to avoid Vs 
insurance policy, I cant look at BGPs actions in setting up Rs previous insurance policy  
including Mr Ps comments that it should have previously  asked him whether any companies 
hed been a director of had been  liquidated.
In arranging Vs insurance policy, BGP needed to ask Mr P if anything  had changed  and 
then send out the insurance documents for Mr P to check were accurate. I think  it did this. I 
can see that BGP did discuss the renewal with Mr P. I can see that Mr P explained that the 
name on the policy needed  to be changed to V. But he said in an email on 7 April 2017  this 
was because he had to change  the business model  of the company due to PAYE issues. I 
havent seen anything to show that Mr P told BGP that R had been  liquidated. So, while I 
accept BGP didnt  change the name on the policy  from R to V, I dont think V has lost out as 
a result of this.
I can see that BGP did then send out the renewal  documents, which included the insurers 
statement of fact. This sets out everything  that the insurer needed to know. It was Mr Ps 
responsibility  on behalf of V  to read the documents careful  and inform  BGP or the insurer 
if anything was wrong on there.
The statement  of facts  clearly says:
Have you or any partners, directors or drivers  currently in your employment, either  
personally or in connection with any business in which they have been  involved ever been 
declared bankrupt or are the subject of any bankruptcy proceedings or any voluntary or 
mandatory insolvency?
And the box is ticked to say no.
Ref: DRN42790213Mr P has queried where in law he had to disclose the fact that companies  he was the 
director of had been liquidated. Given the insurer needed to know this, the Insurance  Act 
2015 required him to disclose  this. Whether it was fair for the insurer to want to know  this is 
something hell need to raise  with the insurer separately.
Ive taken Mr Ps comments into account  that he saw that the wrong business name was on 
the statement  of fact so he didnt read any further. But it was his responsibility to ensure that 
all the information  on there was correct. So he should have read the whole document and 
then explained  to BGP the issues with the previous liquidation. BGPs responsibility in 
respect to this matter  was to send V the policy documents,  which it did. So I cant  say that 
BGP acted unfairly here.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show  that Mr P told BGP that R had been liquidated. 
So I cant say that BGP was responsible for the insurer subsequently avoiding  his insurance 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P  on behalf of 
V  to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279021