K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that after she made  a claim on her motor insurance policy,  an approved 
repairer used by U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) caused damage to her car.
background
Ms As car was hit in the rear by another  vehicle. She says she drove  the car home from the 
accident, and it was then towed to UKIs  garage. Ms A told us that when the car was 
returned to her, there was a fault with the speedometer, the clutch and the brakes. She says 
UKI told her the problem  wasnt accident-related,  but was due to wear and tear to the clutch.    
In its response to Ms As complaint, UKI said underlying issues  can sometimes  be 
highlighted by an accident. It said its approved repairer only worked on the rear of the car 
and thought the problem  Ms A identified was due to wear  and tear. But it agreed  to send the 
car for a full diagnostic check to a dealership garage. The dealership garage also thought  
the problem was due to wear and tear.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms As complaint. She didnt think there  was any 
evidence that UKIs  repairer had caused any damage to Ms As car. Ms A said she was sure 
it did, although she gave  no further explanation for her belief.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
The invoice from the approved repairer  shows that all the work it carried  out was done  to the 
rear of the car. Ms A thinks as she was able to drive the car home after the accident, the 
damage to the clutch must have been done  after the car was in the approved repairers 
control. But I dont think  theres  any evidence of that. 
Wear and tear happens  over time.  The dealership garage noted  that there was slippage to 
the clutch and said it needed to be replaced.  Slippage is caused by wear and tear, and the 
clutch on Ms As car was worn enough  to need  replacing. So I think  it was reasonable for UK 
to accept the view of the engineers that it didnt happen quickly, but over time. So it couldnt 
have been the result of the actions  of its approved repairer. 
UKI asked  the repairer if the car was still driveable, and it said it was. But if the clutch was 
slipping, I can see why Ms A thought it wasnt safe to drive. I think it would have been  much 
harder to drive, as the clutch operates in tandem with other parts of the car. 
Ms A initially told UKI she thought the accelerator  and the speedometer werent  working 
properly. I think the clutch slippage might well have affected the way they worked.  Ms A 
didnt pursue these  issues  separately, and UKI says she must have realised they were  
symptoms of the worn  out clutch.  Although Ms A also mentioned a problem with the brakes 
to us, UKI says she didnt  raise it with UKI. Theres no reference to the brakes in the claims 
notes or in other correspondence, as far as I can see. In my opinion, as the clutch wasnt  
working properly, it may well have affected the operation  of the brakes  as well. 
Ref: DRN46992662Taking everything into account,  I dont think Ms A has provided any evidence  that UKIs  
garage caused damage to her car, so I cant uphold her complaint.
Ms A complained to UKI about a courtesy  car she got from the approved  repairer. UKI dealt 
with the issue.  But as Ms A didnt complain to us about it, the investigator didnt include it in 
her view, and I wont comment further  on it.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699266