K820x#14complaint
Miss A is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited cancelled  her annual  service 
appointment and the customer service she received after this.
background
Miss A had a service booked when British Gas called  around half an hour before  the 
appointment slot was due to end to cancel and rebook. It said there  had been an emergency 
to deal with. Miss A wasnt happy  with the late notice and the issues this caused  her with 
time off work. British Gas offered £30 as compensation and a new appointment roughly  two 
months later. Miss A wasnt happy with this and escalated her concerns within British Gas.
Later Miss A was given a different explanation about the cancellation.  British  Gas explained 
that her appointment was cancelled due to a backlog caused by bad weather and in view of 
the service shed received the compensation offer was increased to £50. Miss A accepted 
this offer but it never  materialised.  Miss A made further calls trying to track down where  her 
payment was and when  nothing happened she request the amount be increased to £70 and 
the formal complaints process be followed.  In the end it was discovered that bank transfer 
issues had occurred and when cheques (for £50 and £70 respectively) were sent instead 
these were made out in the name Miss A had noted  on the policy, but her bank wouldnt 
accept these. British  Gas increased  its offer to £120 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Miss A remained unhappy  and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She noted that Miss A probably could expect 
payments to be paid by bank transfer but British Gas hadnt  specifically  said this. Instead  
after reviewing everything British Gas increased  the amount  to £120 in total and as it now 
couldnt send  bank transfers it sent two cheques. Our investigator didnt think  the issue with 
the cheques merited  any more compensation as British Gas used the name it knew Miss A 
by. Miss A didnt accept  this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Listening to the telephone  calls that took place  between  British Gas and Miss A I could 
sense Miss As frustration  with the process,  with the chasing up she had to do and with the 
delays she encountered.  I do think  British  Gas couldve  been clearer and acted more quickly  
to resolve the issues as and when they came up.
It seems  logical to me that even though the initial  attempts to pay the lower compensation 
awards directly to Miss As bank account  didnt happen she wouldve expected  the further 
attempts to be done the same way. But I note in correspondence from British Gas as 
Miss As customer service  issues escalated there was confirmation that at least the extra 
£70 would be sent by cheque. I understand that Miss A may prefer not to receive  the 
payment this way but that doesnt mean  its unfair.
British Gas told this service after Miss As direct debit was cancelled  its internal process  
meant it wouldnt make payments by bank transfer. British  Gas said this was standard  
procedure and I think its reasonable. Overall,  based  on the difficulties Miss A suffered with 
Ref: DRN41256452British Gas I think the £120 compensation is a fair amount. As errors were  made  British  Gas 
did reconsider and revise  the offers it made  to Miss A. The final review  increased the amount  
to £120 in total which I think is a fair outcome.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4125645