K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the amount which Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
charged them for their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out the policy in 2010  through a price comparison website. They  renewed 
the policy each  year.
At the 2015 renewal, Mrs C telephoned Tesco because she was concerned at the increase 
in the premium. Tescos  representative asked if Mrs C had a Tesco Clubcard. She confirmed 
that she did. He said the premium  could therefore be discounted by £230. After further 
discussion, Mrs C agreed to take out the policy as if she were a new customer  which  
reduced the cost further.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Tesco that it hadnt  previously  made  them aware  they could 
obtain a discount through  Mrs Cs Clubcard. They asked  that it provide them with a 
retrospective discount for previous years.
Tesco said it hadnt previously spoken  to Mr or Mrs C and so hadnt had the opportunity to 
tell them  of the potential discount.  It wouldnt agree  to provide a retrospective discount but 
offered them  £100  as a goodwill gesture.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  at Tescos response. They referred their complaint to us. They  
also complained  that existing  customers paid higher  premiums than new customers which  
they considered  to be unfair.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She was satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs Cs premium had been  calculated fairly over the years. She also noted that 
when the policy had first been taken out, although  it had been  branded  as Tesco,  it was sold, 
administered and underwritten by another insurer. However, she noted  that from the 2011 
renewal Tesco had been responsible for administering and underwriting  the policy  and since 
then it had routinely  asked new customers if they had a Clubcard. The adjudicator thought 
Tesco should at this time have either  cross-referenced existing customers  details on its 
systems to identify Clubcard holders eligible for the discount or drawn attention  to the 
discount on the renewal documents. She thought Tesco should provide the discount 
retrospectively and refund this amount to Mr and Mrs C, plus interest.  If Tesco couldnt 
calculate what this discount would have  been,  the adjudicator said it should  apply  the 18.3% 
rate which would have applied  to Mr and Mrs Cs premium in 2015.
Tesco didnt  accept  the adjudicators findings. It said its current systems would allow it to 
match a Clubcard with a customer only at the policys inception  and not at renewal. It said if 
the customer hadnt been invited for whatever reason to have a Clubcard  discount  at the 
time the policy was first taken out, it was up to that customer  to tell Tesco that they had a 
Clubcard so that it could  then offer a discount, though not retrospectively.  It considered  that 
it was allowed to offer discounts at its discretion and said the renewal price had been  made  
clear each year to Mr and Mrs C and they had accepted it.
In view of the continued  disagreement the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN44861522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this discretion  fairly and consistently  in accordance with its 
internal guidelines, this is a matter in which we would not normally interfere. I should  clarify 
that we consider it reasonable for an insurer to offer new customers  a discounted  premium.
Tesco has provided  details of how it calculated Mr and Mrs Cs premiums. I cant share this 
information with Mr and Mrs C because  it is commercially  sensitive.  However, I can assure  
them that Ive checked it and am satisfied the premiums were calculated  fairly and 
accurately. 
With regard to the Clubcard discount, I think that if Tesco is applying this to new customers,  
it should reasonably offer it also to existing  customers. Tesco  has confirmed the discount 
was available  to existing customers but that in some cases  it required the customer to tell it 
they had a Clubcard. I think Tesco should  have done more to ensure that existing customers  
were aware of the potential discount so they could benefit in the same  way as new 
customers. I acknowledge that Tescos  systems  may make it difficult for it to identify existing 
customers who held a Clubcard, and there could be problems in matching a customer  with a 
Clubcard because of variations  in the information on different databases.  But as the 
adjudicator pointed out, Tesco could  simply have drawn attention  to the potential  discount on 
renewal documents,  which may have prompted Mr and Mrs C to approach  Tesco sooner.
I think it was unfair for Mr and Mrs C to miss out on a discount which  was being offered to 
other policyholders  due to Tescos failure  either  to identify  them  as Clubcard holders or to 
highlight the potential discount on their renewal documents. I think Tesco should have made 
more effort  to ensure  the consistent  application of the discount  across eligible policyholders. 
I therefore think it fair that Tesco  offer Mr and Mrs C the discount retrospectively.
If Tesco can no longer  calculate what the discount  would have been then I agree with the 
adjudicator that it would be fair to use the 18.3% discount rate which would have applied in 
2015.
I further think that Tescos  goodwill offer of £100  is suitable compensation for any trouble  
and upset caused to Mr and Mrs C.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to calculate the amount  Mr and Mrs C would have  
saved on their premium through the Clubcard  discount at each renewal from 2011  to 2014 
and refund this amount to them. Tesco should add interest to this refund  at the annual 
simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each  premium was paid to the date of 
settlement.*  If Tesco cant calculate  what the discount would have been, it should apply a 
discount rate of 18.3% which was the rate which would have applied in 2015.
I further require  Tesco  to pay Mr and Mrs C £100  compensation if this has not yet been  paid.
Ref: DRN44861523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Tesco considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN4486152