K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to tell her about the need to 
register her mobile phone handset for the mobile phone  insurance policy  included  on her 
Tech pack. Ms N says that this has led to her having  a claim declined and this is unfair.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 26 March  2019,  which forms part of this final decision. 
My provisional decision set out why I didnt intend  to uphold  Ms Ns complaint. I invited both 
parties to respond  ahead of my final decision.  
Barclays agreed with my provisional decision and provided nothing  further.  Ms N reiterated  
that she wasnt covered  by the mobile  phone insurance. She also reiterated her friend had a 
claim turned down on the mobile phone insurance  because her handset wasnt  registered.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N has reiterated that her handset  wasnt covered. But I can only reiterate that despite 
what Ms N may have been  told by her friend, registration of a handset  wasnt  a requirement 
for cover on the mobile phone insurance included on the Tech  pack.  And in the absence of 
anything else, Ive not been  persuaded to reach  a different conclusion to that in my 
provisional decision. So considering everything, including  Ms Ns further comments, Im 
afraid Im not upholding this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 26 March  2019, Im not 
upholding Ms Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42333472COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed  to tell her about the need to register 
her mobile  phone handset for the mobile  phone insurance policy included on her Tech  pack. Ms N 
says that this has led to her having a claim declined and this is unfair.
background
Ms N was migrated onto the Tech pack when Barclays discontinued her previous Current Account 
Plus packaged bank  account  in May 2016. Ms N hasnt complained  about the initial  sale of her 
Current Account Plus. So this wasnt investigated by Barclays. 
Ms N says that she wasnt told about the need to register handsets for mobile  phone insurance on the 
Tech pack. She says she only realised that she wasnt covered when a friend  told her this was the 
case and she immediately cancelled the Tech pack as a result. Her phone  is now damaged and she 
thinks it is unfair for Barclays not pay for a repair  or replacement.
Our adjudicators looked  at Ms Ns complaint and didnt think that it should be upheld  as Barclays 
hadnt done anything substantially wrong. Ms N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having carefully thought about everything provided, Im not intending uphold  Ms Ns complaint. Id like 
to explain why.
Ms N believes  that she wasnt  covered  by the mobile phone insurance, from the outset, because  her 
handset wasnt registered. Its fair to say that insurance providers have in the past required mobile  
phone handsets to be covered. And it may well have been  the case  that Ms N had to register her 
handset with the insurance provider  when  she was initially sold the Current Account Plus account.  But 
requiring a customer to register a handset for cover hasnt been general industry practice  in more 
recent times.  
Having looked at the terms and conditions for the policy  included on the Tech  pack, I can see that 
while registration is advised, in order to speed-up the claims process, it isnt a condition for any 
handset to be covered. And Ms Ns handset  was covered as long as she could  prove  ownership. 
So while I dont know what  Ms Ns friend told her or what,  if anything, said was based on, Im afraid 
that I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong here as Ms N did have the cover she was led to 
believe she had. I cant hold Barclays responsible for any misinformation that mightve  been provided  
by Ms Ns friend. And as this is the case and Ms N chose to cancel her Tech pack before her phone  
got damaged, I cant say that Barclays should cover  the cost of any repair to Ms Ns phone  either.
All of this means that Im not intending to uphold  Ms Ns complaint.
Ref: DRN42333473my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not intending to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
If Barclays or Ms N have anything  further to add before I issue my final decision, they should  ensure  
anything they send reaches me by 26 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233347