K820x#14complaint
A representative, on behalf  of Mr C, complains that he has suffered consequential  losses as 
a result of being mis-sold a discounted  fixed rate range tailored business loan (TBL) by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc (Clydesdale).  This TBL was taken out by Mr C and his, now,  ex-wife.
background
Mr C is the remaining partner in a property investment enterprise. This was originally a joint 
partnership with his ex-wife. Mr C was also a director and shareholder in a property 
development company. Clydesdale reviewed the sale of this TBL under voluntary agreement 
with the FCA. Clydesdale agreed to put Mr C (and his ex-wife) in the position as if theyd 
taken a capped  rate TBL instead. Both accepted the basic  redress. Mr Cs ex-wife didnt 
wish to purse any further claim for consequential losses.
Clydesdale has also offered Mr C simple interest at 8% per annum on the above basic  
redress award. Along with this Clydesdale is offering to make a payment to cover charges, 
interest and an adjustment debit which wouldnt have incurred under the replacement TBL. A 
further payment  of simple interest at 8% per annum  would also be made on this figure. But 
Mr C still feels  hes incurred further  consequential  losses and isnt minded to accept this 
offer. Its these consequential  losses which  have  been referred to our service  to consider. 
With our consent, and that of Clydesdale, this complaint  is being  brought  by Mr C alone. 
Upon the complaint being referred  to us, an adjudicator considered  the case. He felt, having  
reviewed all the evidence,  that he was unable  to uphold the claim for consequential losses.
Unhappy with the investigators findings, this matter has now been referred to me to 
consider. I can assure both parties that Ive looked at all the evidence  which  has been 
submitted. And this includes all the further submissions received since  the adjudication was 
issued. Ultimately I have focused  on what I consider to be the key issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to say that I too am unable to 
uphold this complaint for reasons in line with those already  expressed  by the adjudicator.
Ive carefully reviewed Clydesdales actions. I know  Mr Cs representative has mentioned  
Clydesdales restrictive attitude  and that the TBL overpayments were a material 
contribution to the termination events.  Im afraid that having looked at all the evidence I feel 
the TBL payments were a relatively  small part of the financial difficulties which Mr C found  
himself in. I dont think the TBL payments  themselves  were  a material  contribution  towards 
the termination events which eventually occurred.  Mr Cs margins always seem  to have been 
very tight and cash-flow issues appear  to have been caused by other matters, rather  than 
the TBL payments. 
A lot has been made around  Clydesdales reliance on demanding payment of all debts 
outstanding under a cross default provision. I do think Clydesdale  was entitled to review the 
borrowing position when  they did and then take this course of action. I appreciate the calling 
in of debts was incredibly  difficulty. And Ive no doubt having  to sell the former marital home 
was especially upsetting. General economic difficulties seem to have contributed  to Mr Cs 
Ref: DRN43916862problems. I think these  conditions frustrated Mr Cs plans more than the TBL payments  
themselves. 
Mr C says rental income from certain properties  had to be used to service  the TBL.  And 
because of the break costs associated to the TBL, he was unable  to dispose of these 
properties when  he wanted. Its worth acknowledging  that theres little evidence  from the 
time the TBL was taken out that Mr C would have done what  he says he would  have done  
with certain properties.
As the adjudicator has already explained Mr Cs financial  position was bound  to become 
even tighter  when the 3 year interest  only period on the TBL came to an end. This does 
more or less seem to have coincided with the financial difficulties of Mr Cs company. 
Ultimately Im just not persuaded that the TBL caused Mr C to suffer reasonably  foreseeable 
consequential losses that he wouldnt otherwise have suffered if hed taken the replacement 
TBL. Based  on the figures Ive seen, I dont think the material  events which eventually took 
place would have  been any different even if the replacement  TBL had been in place from the 
start. 
Just like the adjudicator  Im not minded to award  anything for legal and professional fees.  I 
fully appreciate that Mr C feels his case is complex.  But ultimately he was able to refer his 
complaint to our service without professional assistance. And indeed not all the fees incurred 
specifically relate to the bringing of this complaint.  
Clydesdale has already offered to pay Mr C simple interest at 8% per annum on the basic 
redress awarded. They have also agreed to pay a further sum covering charges, interest and 
an adjustment debit  which  would not have been incurred under the replacement TBL.  On top 
of this Clydesdale will then pay simple  interest  at 8% per annum on that figure.  Clydesdale 
has agreed to bring the interest calculations up to date. If Clydesdale believes it is legally 
obliged to deduct tax from the interest, it should send a tax deduction  certificate with any 
payment. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied this is sufficient and fair in the 
circumstances. Im therefore not minded  to make any award.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the representative on behalf  of Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4391686