K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont reimburse  him for the 
higher fees and interest that he had to pay for a mortgage because  of the default that it had 
recorded on his account.
background
Mr P had a credit  card account with Halifax that was in arrears.  It defaulted  the account in 
April 2014 and registered the default  with the credit reference agencies.  Mr P applied  for a 
buy-to-let mortgage   but his chosen lender would only lend to him if no defaults  had been 
recorded in the last twelve months. So Mr P says that he had to take out a secured loan and 
that he had to pay an arrangement fee of £4,900  and an interest rate of 11.25 %  which  
were both higher  than they wouldve been if he hadnt had the defaults. He was advised that 
the Halifax default shouldve been recorded  years earlier  than it was  so he complained  to 
Halifax. 
It said in February 2015 that it could see that Mr P had been  finding it difficult to maintain 
regular payments to his account and it was taking payments from his bank  account  which  
delayed the account from defaulting. So it back-dated the default to April 2012 (as that 
wouldve been when  the account wouldve  defaulted if the payments werent being taken 
from his account) and it refunded interest  of £4,714.90, returned direct  debit charges of £36, 
over-limit charges of £156 and late payment charges of £312. And it paid him a further £100 
compensation.
Mr P then successfully re-applied for the buy-to-let mortgage and used it to clear  his 
outstanding debts and the balance of the secured  loan. And he says that the successful 
application shows that it was Halifaxs default that stopped him from getting a buy-to-let 
mortgage when  he first applied for it. And he feels that Halifax  has admitted to registering the 
default incorrectly so it should reimburse him for the arrangement fee, the redemption  
penalty and the difference  between the interest rate of the buy-to-let mortgage (4.18%) and 
the secured loan (11.25%). 
He complained to Halifax  in October 2018. It said that it had amended the default based 
upon processes  in place in 2015  and not those in place when Mr Ps account was originally 
in collections.  And it said that the refund and the amendment were  made  as a goodwill 
gesture and in no way constituted an admission  of error and that no reimbursement of 
charges or interest would  be made. Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Halifax  had 
explained that prior to 2015  a customers account  could stay in collections indefinitely  but 
this changed in 2015 when the decision was taken  not to allow  a customers account  to stay 
in collections for longer  than a year. But he said that this doesnt mean that the action  taken 
prior to this was incorrect  merely  that a new standard was applied. So he didnt think that it 
would be reasonable for Halifax to reimburse Mr P for the cost of the secured loan.
Mr P has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN43743062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only considering the complaint  that 
Mr P made to Halifax  in October 2018  that it wouldnt reimburse him for the charges and 
interest that hes incurred  on the secured loan. Im not considering  his complaint about the 
default. 
Halifax agreed in February 2015 to back-date the default to April 2012  because thats when 
the account wouldve been  defaulted if it hadnt  been taking  the payments from Mr Ps bank 
account. And it refunded £4,714.90 of interest  and £504 of charges and paid him £100  
compensation. 
But that was only done because Halifax had changed its processes and chose to look at the 
default on the basis of its new processes and not the processes that were in place in April 
2012. And it says that the refund and the amendment were made as a goodwill gesture and 
in no way constituted an admission of error.  
Mr Ps first application for a buy-to-let mortgage wasnt successful so he took out a secured 
loan and agreed to pay the arrangement fee of £4,900 and an interest rate of 11.25%. That 
was his decision at that time. Hes since benefitted  from Halifaxs  decision to back-date  his 
default and to refund interest  and charges and to pay him compensation. But Halifax 
wouldnt have defaulted the account  in April 2012  as its policy  at that time wasnt  to default 
accounts in Mr Ps circumstances. And Im not persuaded that it would now be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Halifax to reimburse Mr P for the arrangement fee and interest 
that hes paid on the secured loan.
Im not persuaded that Halifax has responded to Mr Ps complaint  unfairly  or unreasonably.  
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to make any further  
payments to Mr P or to take any other action in response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4374306