K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint is mainly about  the level of redress offered  by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  
Management Limited (Hargreaves) for problems he faced in transferring his portfolio.  
background
I issued a detailed  Provisional  Decision (PD) for this complaint on 27 January 2020. A copy  
of the PD is attached (below) so I will not repeat all of its contents. The abbreviations and 
identifications used  in the PD apply to this decision. In the main: 
I summarised Mr Rs complaint issues as follows  delays over seven months 
(between February and September 2018) in a transfer process that he says should 
have taken around three  to four weeks to complete;  his claims for financial loss 
arising from the delay  in the transfer; and his dissatisfaction with the level of 
customer service  he received from Hargreaves in the matter.
I noted Hargreaves  offer of £1,000  to Mr R for the trouble and upset caused to him 
by his experience  in the transfer process and his counter proposal of £1,800  in this 
respect.
I summarised the 11 claims for financial loss pursued by Mr R.
I provisionally upheld  the merits of Mr Rs complaint  on the basis  that Hargreaves 
mishandled the transfer process, as it has conceded.
I provisionally addressed Mr Rs claims for financial  loss as follows;
oI said claim 11 (trouble and upset) has been addressed by Hargreaves offer 
of £1,000, that it should not pay any more and that I was not persuaded by his 
counter proposal.
oI accepted claim 1 (compensation for inactive cash) and set out the basis  on 
which it should be redressed.
oI said claims 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 appeared to duplicate each other  with pursuits 
for compensation connected to the same issues, investments and periods  
and I set out a single basis for redress in this respect.
oI accepted claims 8 and 9 and set out how they should be redressed.
oI did not accept  claim 5 and I said claim 10 is remote to the complaint.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the PD. Hargreaves said it was the transferor  firms 
decision to transfer  Mr Rs stock  first and his cash second; if he wanted  his cash transferred 
sooner he had the option to instruct the transferor firm accordingly;  the timing  of the sales  
executed by the transferor firm was outside  Hargreaves control;  it accepts that it may have 
been helpful to determine which  investments  could  be held on its platform following receipt 
of his transfer application but it still required valuation information  for the transfer  at the time.
Mr R made  the following  main submissions:
He notes that the merits  of his complaint have been provisionally upheld and he 
repeats that the transfer should  have been  completed before May 2018.
He should  be entitled to a refund of part or all the fees he paid Hargreaves during the 
relevant period.
The seven months over which the transfer  took place is close  to the worst transfer 
delay case he is aware of, which took eleven  months. His experience should warrant  
a greater trouble  and upset award (under  claim 11), but if I disagree he will accept 
my decision  (that Hargreaves offer of £1,000 addresses the matter).
Ref: DRN44674482Redress for claim  1 is wrongly based on a balanced risk profile.  His portfolio had 
always been at the higher end of medium  to high risk. In addition,  his plan (under 
claim 7) to invest (more) into global funds shows that  contrary  to what is said in the 
PD  his portfolios profile was to be changed upon the transfer.  He has also 
presented additional  evidence of how it has since changed.
He disagrees with the PDs finding on claim 5. The timing of the sale of funds by the 
transferor firm was impacted by Hargreaves delay in providing  the requisite  
instructions. There is a direct line of culpability between  it (and its delays in the 
transfer process) and the timing  of the sales  and a summary  of evidence has been 
presented to establish this.
He disagrees with the PDs finding on claim 7. He discussed  his plan to invest more 
into global funds with his accountant and with Hargreaves.  The former has been 
confirmed and Hargreaves disputes the latter. He has maintained credibility in the 
evidence he presented in the case,  whereas Hargreaves  has not, so this should  carry 
sufficient weight  to conclude that the discussion was indeed  held with Hargreaves. In 
addition, evidence that he eventually made the global fund investments adds weight 
to the probability  that they would  have been made earlier, but for the delayed transfer 
process.
In the course  of upholding claim 9 I should  provide that Hargreaves is not allowed to 
recover the loyalty bonus redress from him in the future  given that it previously  told 
him it could recover the loyalty  bonus if he left Hargreaves within a year.
Based  on the PDs finding that claim 10 (including its relation to claim 11) is remote 
to the present complaint  he wishes to pursue a new and separate complaint about it.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including the submissions 
made by Mr R and Hargreaves  in order to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have not been persuaded to change  the 
findings and conclusions in the PD. I retain those findings and conclusions, and I incorporate 
them into this decision.
I respond to Hargreaves comments as follows:
The main subject  of complaint  is about  its overall delay in and mishandling of the 
transfer  which  it has conceded. Its point about the sequence in which  components 
of the portfolio were arranged for transfer does  not alter this.
I agree  with its point  about the timing  of sales under claim 5, the PD did the same 
and, as stated  above,  I retain  the PDs findings.
Timely determination  including notice to Mr R/the transferor firm  of what 
Hargreaves could and could  not hold on its platform is the issue  that is relevant to 
claim 8. Hargreaves did not provide such determination and notice, so its comment  
on this issue does  not alter the PDs  finding  on it.
I respond to Mr Rs comments  on redress  as follows:
The claim for a refund  of fees appears  to be new. It was not a part of the 11 claims 
addressed in the PD  based  on the claims Mr R presented to Hargreaves.  I consider 
that a claim for a refund  of fees is remote to the present  complaint.  If the claim seeks  
Ref: DRN44674483to reflect  Mr R being denied the service he was entitled to from Hargreaves, I 
consider that the award for trouble and upset (under  claim 11) covers  that.
I understand the point about how notable it was/is for the transfer process  to have 
taken seven months to complete. In the context of specific  awards  being  granted  for 
the financial loss this caused Mr R, I remain satisfied that Hargreaves offer of £1,000 
addresses the separate matter of the trouble and upset caused to him under claim 
11. I am not persuaded to award  more. I order Hargreaves to make the £1,000 
payment to Mr R under this claim.
Claim 1  The PD neither sought to suggest  nor did it say Mr Rs risk profile (or that 
of his portfolio)  was precise.  It concluded  that, based on available evidence,  the 
portfolio had a broadly balanced risk profile  and I am not persuaded that this 
conflicts, in the manner  or to the extent that he considers, with his reference to the 
portfolio being  at the higher end of a medium to high risk profile.  The PD made a 
broad reference in this respect and this service can take the approach of identifying  a 
risk profile on such a basis for the sake of a benchmark related redress  award. With 
regards to the prospects of a subsequent change  in the profile at the time, I address  
below (under claim 7) the reasons why I retain  the PDs finding that investment in 
global funds do not appear to have  been the probable next step from the transfer.  
Claim 5  The sale of assets prior to the transfer was instructed by Mr R and 
executed by the transferor firm. The PD found that Hargreaves was at fault in 
delaying the transfer  of the proceeds. That finding  is retained. However,  there is a 
key distinction  between fault for the delay in transferring the proceeds and fault for 
the timing (or any delay) in selling assets  before the proceeds from the sales  could 
be transferred. I have not been  sufficiently satisfied by available evidence  and/or by 
Mr Rs submissions  that Hargreaves played a role within  the sale of the assets or a 
role that impacted upon it. 
Mr R says the assets could not be sold because Hargreaves  delayed and 
mishandled different aspects of the transfer  process (such as in the processing of the 
transfer application form). However, the sales happened between March and April 
2018; the transfer process (including  delays)  continued for around  five months 
thereafter and was not fully completed until September; this does not suggest that 
the sales were dependent  upon  progress or completion of the transfer process   
especially as the sales were to happen prior to transfer in order  for the proceeds (not 
the assets) to be transferred.
Mr R says the transferor firm was hindered by not knowing which assets  Hargreaves  
could and could  not hold on its platform.  I do not consider that uncertainty  in this 
respect would  have impacted upon a plan to sell assets and then transfer the cash  
proceeds. I have not seen evidence of uncertainty about Hargreaves holding  cash on 
its platform. I can understand that, for assets which were to be transferred in specie, 
uncertainty about whether  (or not) they can be held on Hargreaves platform would 
have been relevant. It is noteworthy  that the PD reflected  this in upholding claim 8. 
The assets in the claim were sold only because Hargreaves declared, late, that they 
could not be held on its platform  so they could or would  have  been  sold earlier,  but 
for its late declaration. The assets  sold under claim 5 do not share  this context. 
Mr R has made different arguments about  how Hargreaves inaction frustrated the 
transferor firms  efforts but they appear  to relate to the transfer  process, not to 
Ref: DRN44674484liquidation of the assets prior to transfer. Overall  and on balance, I do not consider 
that Hargreaves  responsibility for claim 5 has been  established.
Claim 7  As stated  in the PD, I do not disregard the evidence related  to Mr Rs 
account. I also understand  his point about credibility of evidence.  In the context of 
redress, the task for me in claim 7 is to determine whether  (or not) the transfer  
process delay hindered a probable (or, as Mr R asserts,  certain) next step of [him] 
investing further in global funds at the time. I accept  that his previous global fund 
holdings and the additional holdings he bought after the transfer  carry their 
respective weights in this consideration.  I also accept that they suggest such a next 
step was possible  at the time,  but I need  to address whether it was probable. 
Mr R says he informed Hargreaves about  this plan in May 2018 and that the plan 
was hindered by the transfer delay  that continued up to September  that year. 
Available evidence  shows that the proceeds of liquidated assets had mainly been 
transferred around  May 2018.  The nine investments,  which consumed £84,000 from 
the proceeds and feature in claim 3, were also made in this month. I do not doubt 
that Mr R considered or could have considered the possibility of the global fund 
investments at the time.  However, he could have made, but did not make, those  
investments (or some  of them) at that time.  This  in addition  to the lack of 
persuasive evidence,  as mentioned in the PD  creates a counter balance  to the 
weight of evidence  he has highlighted in favour of claim 7 and it suggests  that the 
global fund investments were not the next step(s) to follow the transfer  at the time.
Overall, I do not consider  that the balance of evidence supports claim 7.
Redress under claim 9 is part of the compensation award  that Mr R is entitled to from 
this decision. I do not have  a basis to prescribe or address any recovery  action 
Hargreaves might  or might not take in the future, but I confirm that Hargreaves is 
ordered to redress  claim 9 as stated  below and that the award is made  without any 
expression or implication  that Mr R should return it to Hargreaves in the future.
Hargreaves must  pay Mr R £500 under claim 9; this is money  he has been  entitled 
to but deprived  of since 3 September 2018,  at the latest, so Hargreaves  must also 
pay him interest, at the rate of 8% simple per year, on it from 3 September 2018  to 
the date of settlement; income tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
redress
I have expressed,  above, orders for Hargreaves to redress claims 9 and 11.
To redress claim 1 I order Hargreaves to do the following:
Calculate interest, if any, that the respective cash  holdings earned between  12 
February 2018 (two working days after the transfer  application date, excluding  the 
application date), by which time Hargreaves ought reasonably  to have been able to 
transfer the cash holdings, to the dates each of the cash  holdings were  transferred. 
The result, in total, will be the actual  value.
Calculate what would have happened  to the cash holdings  if they were  invested on 
12 February 2018 and on the basis of a benchmark comparison. A benchmark 
comparison is required because there is a lack of evidence  to confirm, precisely, 
what the cash holdings would have been invested in. 
Ref: DRN44674485Available evidence  supports  the conclusion that Mr Rs portfolio was based, broadly, 
on a balanced  risk profile and I have not seen enough to conclude that this was to be 
changed upon the transfer. This services approach towards redress on such  a risk 
profile is to use the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return Index (prior  to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income  Total  Return Index) as a 
benchmark.
Hargreaves should calculate the returns that could have been  achieved on the cash  
holdings between 12 February 2018  and when each holding was eventually 
transferred, on the basis of the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  
Index benchmark.  The result, in total,  will be the fair value .
If the fair value is greater than the actual  value Hargreaves must pay Mr R the 
difference as compensation for claim 1. If the fair value is less than the actual value 
no compensation is payable. Hargreaves must also pay interest, at the rate of 8% 
simple per year,  on the compensation from the date of this decision to the date of 
settlement (if the compensation is not paid to Mr R within 28 days of Hargreaves 
being notified of his acceptance of this decision). Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
I retain  the finding  that claims 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 duplicate  each  other but, as explained in the 
PD, there is an entitlement to compensation (for Mr R) that arises  from part of them.  To 
perform redress  in this respect  I order Hargreaves to do the following:
Calculate interest earned, if any, on the proceeds from each liquidation date up to 18 
May and then calculate the returns,  if any, made in the nine investments from 18 May 
to 3 September 2018. The total will be the actual  value.
Calculate how the proceeds, from each liquidation date, would have performed (in 
terms of returns) up to 3 September 2018  based on the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index benchmark. The total will be the fair value.
If the fair value is greater than the actual  value Hargreaves must pay the difference  in 
compensation to Mr R. If the fair value is less than the actual value no compensation 
is payable. Hargreaves must also pay interest,  at the rate of 8% simple per year, on 
the compensation from the date of this decision to the date of settlement  (if the 
compensation is not paid to Mr R within 28 days of Hargreaves being notified of his 
acceptance of this decision). Income  tax may be payable on any interest  awarded.
To redress claim 8 I order Hargreaves to calculate the average price  at which  each of the 
relevant six funds could  have  been sold between 8 and 12 February  2018  (fair value),  during 
which Mr R could have sold them had he been  told Hargreaves could not hold them;  and to 
establish the sale revenue for each of them (actual value). If, for each fund, the fair value is 
greater than the actual value the difference must be compensated to Mr R. If not, then no 
compensation is payable. Hargreaves must also pay interest,  at the rate of 8% simple per 
year, on the compensation from the date of this decision to the date of settlement  (if the 
compensation is not paid to Mr R within 28 days of Hargreaves  being notified of his 
acceptance of this decision). Income  tax may be payable on any interest  awarded.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in the Provisional Decision, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I 
order Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management  Limited to pay redress  to him as detailed 
above and to provide him with a calculation of redress in a clear and simple format.
Ref: DRN44674486Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44674487Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr Rs complaint is mainly about the level of redress offered by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  
Management Limited  (Hargreaves)  with regards to problems he faced  in transferring his portfolio  to 
Hargreaves. 
background
The problems Mr R says he faced can be summarised as follows:
Delays over seven  months (between February and September  2018) in a transfer process 
that should  have  taken around  three to four weeks to complete.
Financial losses arising from the delay in the transfer.
Dissatisfaction with the level of customer service he received from Hargreaves in the matter.
The background  of the complaint can be summarised as follows:
The transfer involved Individual Savings  Account  (ISA)  funds  and non-ISA funds. It also 
involved the transfer of cash  holdings from across Mr Rs portfolio.  The process  began  with 
Mr Rs transfer application in February 2018. A succession of delays followed  and the process  
appears to have  finally concluded on 3 September 2018. Funds  were encashed during  the 
process and the transfer of the proceeds mainly  concluded in May 2018. Transfer of ISA and 
non-ISA cash also concluded in May 2018. The remainder of the portfolio appears to have 
been transferred  in specie.
Hargreaves  conceded responsibility  for not being  as proactive in the transfer process  as it 
should have been and for not keeping  Mr R updated in the process as it should have done.  
Mr R agreed with both concessions.  For the trouble  and upset caused by his experience of 
the transfer process Hargreaves offered  £700  (later increased to £1,000)  to Mr R. He counter 
proposed the amount  of £1,800 in this respect.
Hargreaves  invited Mr R to particularise his alleged  financial losses. His present  position in 
this respect can be summarised  as follows  
oA claim  for £261 , representing loss of income/growth on a total of around £12,700 in cash  
(ISA and non-ISA cash)  that remained inactive  for around two months (for the non-ISA 
cash) and around three months (for the ISA cash) due to Hargreaves delay and inaction  
in transferring the relevant cash amounts. This assertion is based on the cash being 
available to transfer  from 8 February 2018. [claim  1]
oA claim  related to nine investments made with the cash proceeds (from ISA and non-ISA  
fund sales). Mr R says the proceeds were available for transfer from March and April 
2018 but were transferred  late (by May 2018);  the specific nine investments that could 
have been made with available cash as of 15 March  2018 had to be made  on 18 May 
2018 due to Hargreaves  inaction; the claim  is for £3,672 in compensation  for the total loss 
based on purchase prices  on 24 May that were higher than those on 29 March; in 
addition, an estimated £1,028 caters for the potential price differences/loss between 15 
March and 29 March. [claim  2]
oA claim  based on Mr Rs assertion  that the nine investments he made  on 18 May were 
unsuitable, as were his investments in what he refers to as the Woodford  funds; based 
on his assertion  that Hargreaves was responsible for recommending these  unsuitable 
investments; based on his dispute against Hargreaves claim that it did not recommend 
investments/the nine investments; based on his offer to quantify what he seeks for the 
Woodford funds upon confirmation that this service accepts the claim; and based on his 
quantification of £8,400 compensation for the nine unsuitable investments. [claim  3]
Ref: DRN44674488oA claim  for £2,426 based on an earlier benchmark comparison related offer from 
Hargreaves to compensate him for financial  loss arising  from the delayed transfer; and 
qualified by his call for a review of the offer given that the specific benchmark that was 
used is potentially  inappropriate. [claim 4]
oA claim  for a total of £6.098  as compensation  for the less favourable prices  at which his 
funds were sold (the ISA and non-ISA fund sales)   first up to 31 March 2018, then up to 
3 April 2018 and then up to 6 April 2018. Mr R says the funds  were sold by the transferor 
firm up to these three dates whereas  they could/should have been sold earlier, from early 
February 2018, at better prices; a comparison  between the more  favourable prices in 
February and the less favourable prices  the funds were eventually sold at produces a 
deficit, which  is the amount he claims; Hargreaves inaction delayed the sales of these 
funds so compensation in this respect is its responsibility. [claim 5]
oA claim  for £1.348 based on the delayed  investment opportunity that arose  from cash  (the 
cash proceeds from the ISA and non-ISA  fund sales and pre-existing cash elements)  
being inactive in his portfolio  for two to three months after they were  available and should 
have been transferred by Hargreaves. [claim  6]
oA claim  for £23,324  based on Mr Rs assertion  about his original  plan for all but £15,000 
of the total of around £125,000 cash proceeds from the ISA and non-ISA fund sales. He 
says his original plan had been to use the balance of around £110,000 to increase his 
holdings in three  global  funds he already  held and to invest  in a fourth; he has evidence  
from his accountant of this plan and evidence that he made  reference to the plan in an 
email to Hargreaves in May 2018;  he has evidence  to show  that between  March 2018 
(when the cash transfer should have been completed (but was not)) and up to September  
2018 (when  the entire transfer  process was completed) these investments would  have 
grown by 21%, equating  to the amount he claims. [claim 7]
oA claim  for £1,378 based on a loss arising  from notice from Hargreaves, delayed over 
seven weeks (between his transfer application on 8 February and the notice date on 27 
March), that it could not hold six funds he had intended to transfer in specie. He says 
upon receipt of the notice  he had to decide  to encash the funds  and transfer the cash; 
they were encashed  at a less favourable  price than they would have  been encashed  at 
the time of the transfer  application and the total difference is in the amount  he claims. 
[claim 8]
oA claim  for £500  which stands as the loyalty bonus Hargreaves was supposed to have 
paid him (into his loyalty bonus account,  for the purpose of reinvestment) because  he had 
applied to transfer  his portfolio before the bonus deadline of 15 February. He says this 
should have been paid to him in September when the transfer was completed, but it was 
not and has not been paid since; lost income  and growth (for around a year) on this 
bonus payment  accounts for a further £50, which he also claims. [claim 9]
oA claim  for £589  based on Hargreaves  incessantly quoting various  yield values  from 
1.41% up to 4.60%  and then down to 1.53%  for a BlackRock fund he was invested in. 
He says these variations prompted the basis for the fund to interchange  between income 
and accumulation;  the resulting  uncertainty  led him to sell the fund £589 less than he 
had bought it. [claim  10]
oThe counter proposal of £1,800  for the trouble and upset caused to him by the transfer 
process plus £500 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the matter in claim  10. 
[claim 11]
Hargreaves  maintains its position that its offer of £1,000 for trouble and upset  is reasonable 
and it has offered  no more in this respect. In terms of Mr Rs claim  for financial loss it has 
offered redress broadly based on claim 2 (and on the calculation start date of 29 March). It 
disputes claim  3 because it says it gave no investment advice  or recommendation to Mr R. It 
says claim 4 was the idea it initially  explored before substituting that idea with the idea within 
claim 2. It appears to dispute  responsibility for the fund sales that were  taking place in the 
course of the transfer process and the other claims.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and concluded that it should  not be upheld. He 
considered that Hargreaves  concession in the matter was sufficient and that the same applies to the 
Ref: DRN44674489offers it has made  to redress the complaint (including  the offer for trouble and upset). Mr R 
vehemently disagreed  with this outcome, asked for an ombudsmans decision and made updated 
submissions (with some re-submissions of evidence)  for the attention of the ombudsman. His 
submissions relate to merits and redress, with regards  to the latter  the summary  of his 11 claims  
above applies.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In the course of doing so I have reviewed  the complaint afresh and 
reached some conclusions that differ from the adjudicators.
Merit
I provisionally  consider  that Mr Rs submissions and available evidence  supports the conclusion that 
Hargreaves mishandled the transfer process. I also consider that it has conceded this and that the 
main issue  in dispute  relates to redress. I uphold  the part of the complaint  about Hargreaves 
mishandling the transfer and I do not consider it presently necessary to give detailed reasons for 
doing so. As this is a provisional decision, if Hargreaves wishes to withdraw, revise or qualify its 
concession I will consider  what  it submits  and address  it in the subsequent  decision. Given that it has 
consistently, to date,  accepted responsibility  for mishandling  the transfer  I do not consider this a likely 
scenario.
Redress 
Claim 11
I begin with this claim because it relates  to the trouble  and upset  caused by Hargreaves overall  
service in the transfer matter  and it has an association  with the events in most of the other claims. I 
provisionally agree with Hargreaves offer of £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr R by his 
experience in the transfer  process. I have taken  on board  the reasons  behind his counter proposal. I 
separate his claim for £500,  for trouble and upset, related to claim  10 and I address this further below 
in my treatment of claim 10. I am not persuaded that his remainder claim,  for trouble and upset, of 
£1,800 is fair.
I do not consider  that £1,000 is beneath the sort of award for trouble  and upset this service  has made  
in delayed portfolio transfer cases comparable  to Mr Rs. It is not an insufficient amount to address  
the trouble and upset he was caused over the seven months  long process  he experienced.  I am also 
mindful that the majority  of the transfer was completed by May 2018, about three months after his 
transfer application,  and that he could use the transferred assets from then. I do not suggest  this as 
justification for his experience but it appears to be a matter of fact that is relevant to claim  11. Overall 
and on balance, I do not consider that there are grounds to ask Hargreaves to pay any more than 
£1,000 for this claim. I provisionally order Hargreaves to pay Mr R £1,000 for this claim. 
Claim 1
I provisionally  accept the basis of this claim but I consider that its calculation  should be based upon a 
benchmark comparison exercise.
There is sufficient evidence that £12,742 in cash (from  the ISA and non-ISA accounts)  was available 
for transfer from the outset of the transfer process. Mr R provided a list of the subject matters of the 
overall transfer to Hargreaves in February and he updated Hargreaves in this respect in March.  
Hargreaves says it was still required to receive  details  of the transfers contents directly  from the 
transferor, despite the information Mr R gave,  but I have not seen enough  evidence  to justify, on 
balance, why this specific cash element was not transferred  as soon as it was available.
Ref: DRN446744810It could be argued that the cash holdings prior to the transfer would  have likely remained cash  
holdings thereafter, but there is enough wider evidence to show that Mr R was in an overall pursuit of 
liquidations and reinvestments in the course of the portfolio transfer. As such, in his case, there is 
ground to consider that his cash holdings would  probably have  been invested upon transfer. The 
delay in transferring his cash  can therefore  be said to have happened at an investment cost to Mr R, 
during the period of the delay.
I provisionally  order Hargreaves to do the following:
Calculate interest,  if any, that the respective  cash  holdings earned between  12 February 2018  
(two working days after the transfer application date, excluding the application date),  by which  
time Hargreaves  ought reasonably to have been able to transfer  the cash holdings,  to the 
dates each of the cash holdings were transferred. The result  will be the actual value.
Calculate what would  have happened to the cash holdings if they were invested on 12 
February 2018 and on the basis of a benchmark comparison. A benchmark comparison is 
required because  there is a lack of evidence to confirm, precisely, what  the cash holdings  
would have  been  invested  in. 
Available evidence supports the conclusion that Mr Rs portfolio  was based,  broadly, on a 
balanced risk profile  and I have  not seen  enough  to conclude that this was to be changed  
upon the transfer.  This services approach  towards redress on such a risk profile is to use the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income Total  Return Index) as a benchmark. I note comments from Mr R 
about his investments  not being  total return based investments. I do not suggest they were, 
however this is the benchmark we use to reflect  the sort of returns  that could have  been 
achieved on a balanced  risk profile.
Hargreaves  should  calculate the returns that could have been achieved on the cash  holdings 
between 12 February 2018 and when each holding  was eventually transferred, on the basis of 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index  benchmark. The result  the total 
for the cash holdings  will be the fair value.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value  Hargreaves must pay Mr R the difference as 
compensation for claim 1. If the fair value is less than the actual value no compensation  is 
payable. Hargreaves  must  also pay interest, at the rate of 8% simple per year,  on the 
compensation from the date of the final decision to the date of settlement (if the compensation 
is not paid to Mr R within 28 days of Hargreaves being notified of his acceptance of the final 
decision). Income tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
Claims 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7
These claims appear to duplicate  each  other.
Mr Rs overall portfolio was valued at around £215,000 at the outset of the transfer. More than half of 
this was liquidated in fund sales and, in the main, the proceeds were  transferred to Hargreaves by 
May 2018. The remainder  assets (six funds) were transferred in specie. On 18 May 2018 Mr R 
invested £84,000 in the nine funds he has mentioned. This amount was from the proceeds that had 
been transferred by May 2018.
Hargreaves accepts that liquidation proceeds could have been transferred by 29 March  and its 
position on redress  under  claim 2 is based on this date. Mr R disagrees. He says the proceeds should 
have been generated and transferred by 15 March, but for Hargreaves delay. 
I am not persuaded that Hargreaves is responsible  for the timing  of the liquidation of the funds, which  
appears to have been  done  by the transferor firm, and I repeat this in my treatment  of claim 5 below.  
The funds were liquidated between 12 March and 6 April 2018  on 12 March, 13 March,  21 March,  3 
April and 6 April (the liquidation dates). Separate transfers of these  proceeds were  concluded by 
Hargreaves between  March and the middle  of May, hence the availability  of the funds Mr R invested 
on 18 May. I consider  it broadly  fair to regard  the delay as being from each liquidation date to 18 May 
Ref: DRN446744811[period 1] and then to recognise the period from 18 May to 3 September when  the entire transfer 
process eventually concluded [period 2].  
Based on Mr Rs submissions, he appears to be pursuing  compensation for period 2 under claim  2 
and claim  3; and he appears to be pursuing  compensation for periods 1 and 2 under claim 4, claim  6 
and claim  7. The first pursuit features claims  for the same  nine investments made  on 18 May and the 
second pursuit features claims  for the same period  beginning from when the liquidation proceeds 
should have been transferred up to when  the transfer process  concluded.  It would  not be fair to 
duplicate compensation in this manner,  given  that the matter relates to a single  set of transferred 
proceeds and to their reinvestment. Compensation should reflect what would have happened to each 
of the transferred proceeds had they been transferred on time.  
With regards to claim 3, I have not seen evidence to conclude,  on balance,  that Hargreaves gave Mr 
R investment advice  as defined by the regulator  and it appears that the complaint he referred  to 
this service did not included one about  unsuitable  investment advice. However, had the liquidation 
proceeds been transferred  as and when they became  available, before 18 May, it is not clear  that Mr 
R would certainly have  invested in the same nine funds, so he could have invested differently. 
Mr Rs argument in claim 7 about alternative investments has not been  established as a probability (or 
a certainty, as he appears to assert). I do not disregard the evidence related  to his accountant but 
evidence that a plan for these specific investments had been expressly shared with Hargreaves  is 
more important, in order to hold Hargreaves  responsible  for the alleged  missed investment 
opportunity. I have not seen written evidence  in this respect and Mr Rs account  of verbal evidence  
appears to be in dispute.  On balance, I do not consider that there is enough to say precisely what Mr 
R would have  invested in, instead of the nine funds, so I consider that compensation should be based 
on another benchmark comparison exercise, similar  to what I provisionally concluded for claim  1. I 
provisionally order  Hargreaves to do the following:
Calculate interest  earned,  if any, on the proceeds from each liquidation date up to 18 May and 
then calculate the returns, if any, made in the nine investments from 18 May to 3 September  
2018. The total will be the actual value.
Calculate how the proceeds, from each liquidation  date,  would have performed  (in terms of 
returns) up to 3 September 2018 based on the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total 
Return Index benchmark. The total will be the fair value .
If the fair value is greater than the actual value  Hargreaves must pay the difference  in 
compensation to Mr R. If the fair value  is less than the actual  value no compensation is 
payable. Hargreaves  must  also pay interest, at the rate of 8% simple per year,  on the 
compensation from the date of the final decision to the date of settlement (if the compensation 
is not paid to Mr R within 28 days of Hargreaves being notified of his acceptance of the final 
decision). Income tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
I consider 3 September 2018 to be a fair end date for the calculation of compensation as this was 
when the entire transfer process concluded,  this was when the delay ended and this was when Mr R 
was, at the latest, in a position to mitigate any concerns he had about his portfolio. The idea behind  
the compensation award above is to cover, as fairly  as possible (and at present), any loss in the 
matter before he was in a position to mitigate.  
Claim 5
I do not consider  that there is a reasonable  basis to hold Hargreaves  responsible for the timing of the 
sale of funds  that it did not sell and does not appear to have been responsible for selling. It follows 
that any complaint Mr R has about the sale prices  that resulted from that timing(s) is beyond 
Hargreaves responsibility.  Liability for the delay in transferring the proceeds from the sales is one 
thing  which  has been addressed above  but liability  for how, when and the prices  at which  the 
sales were  executed is another. Unless Mr R can establish Hargreaves direct responsibility in this 
matter and that it did not discharge such responsibility  reasonably, I do not accept  this claim. 
Ref: DRN446744812Claims 8 and 9
In straightforward terms, I provisionally accept the basis for claim 8, for the reasons given by Mr R. I 
consider that Hargreaves ought reasonably to have known, and to have declared, at the outset (or 
shortly after submission of Mr Rs transfer application) the funds it was unable to accept. Mr R gave it 
the list of funds at the outset.  I have not seen  evidence that justifies the period of around seven weeks 
it took to notify Mr R that four of the funds  (with  two more subsequently  identified) could not be held. 
His decision to sell the relevant six funds  in order to aid the transfer was reasonable in the 
circumstances, so any losses he incurred  in those sales must be compensated to him.
I provisionally  order Hargreaves to calculate the average price at which each of the relevant six funds   
could have been sold between  8 and 12 February (fair value), during which Mr R could have sold 
them had he been told Hargreaves could not hold them,  and to establish the sale revenue for each  of 
them (actual  value). If, for each fund, the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference  must 
be compensated to Mr R. If not, then no compensation is payable.  Hargreaves must  also pay interest, 
at the rate of 8% simple  per year, on the compensation from the date of the final decision to the date 
of settlement (if the compensation is not paid to Mr R within 28 days of Hargreaves being notified of 
his acceptance of the final decision). Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
I also provisionally accept the basis for claim 9. Mr R applied to transfer his portfolio before what 
appears to have been  the deadline relevant to a loyalty bonus in the amount  of £500. On this basis,  
he should have received  the £500 loyalty  bonus by the completion of the transfer on 3 September at 
the latest. If this remains outstanding, I provisionally order  Hargreaves to pay him £500 under claim 9. 
As this is money  he has been entitled to but deprived of since 3 September 2018, at the latest, 
Hargreaves must also pay interest,  at the rate of 8% simple per year,  on it from 3 September 2018 to 
the date of settlement. Income  tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
Claim 10
I provisionally  conclude that this claim, including the issue within  it, is remote to the complaint Mr R 
referred to this service.  I understand he might consider it relevant to his overall dissatisfaction  with the 
service he received from Hargreaves, but the matter of his portfolio transfer was the basis for his 
complaint and for the complaint referred to us. This claim does not appear to arise from that matter,  
so I do not address the amount he has claimed under claim 10 and the amount in claim  11 that is 
related to it.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I provisionally uphold  Mr Rs complaint based on the findings  (including 
those for redress) detailed above.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4467448