K822xcomplaint
Mrs J complains about the amount that shes been charged by BMW  Financial Services  
(GB) Limited for damage to a car that she returned  when her hire purchase agreement  with it 
ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs J under a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that she signed in February 2015.  BMW Financial Services  arranged  for the car to 
be collected from her and inspected by a third party on its behalf in March  2019 when the 
agreement ended. The inspection report recorded that the car had been  driven  for 53,771 
miles and identified damage to the car with a total cost of £865. BMW Financial Services 
charged her for the damage  and some excess mileage.
Mrs J paid the charge  for the excess  mileage  and accepted that there was some damage to 
the car but disputed the amount of the damage. She complained to BMW Financial Services 
and it said that the damage exceeded the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
guidelines on fair wear  and tear. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He felt that the 
pictures provided for the right rear and left front door pads didnt show  clear  evidence of 
damage that was more  than fair wear  and tear so he recommended  that BMW  Financial 
Services should credit  Mrs Js account with £58. But he felt that the other damage was 
chargeable. 
BMW Financial Services accepted the adjudicators recommendations but Mrs J has asked 
for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in summary, that:
she fully accepts responsibility for the damage to the left rear wing and left front and 
rear doors;
the door pads  and seat back covers may have had small marks;
she cannot see how it came to the decision  that the other  parts of the car were  
damaged and the photos of the damage arent clear; and
the photos in the inspection report were taken after the car had been collected from 
her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement says that BMW Financial Services:
 will charge  if you return  the vehicle not in good repair  and condition  (allowing  
for fair wear and tear) our reasonable estimate of the resulting reduction in the 
Vehicles value or it we decide at our discretion to carry out any repair or replacement 
of parts   the cost of such repair and/or replacement and our estimate of any 
remaining loss in value.
Ref: DRN48889992When the agreement  ended BMW Financial Services arranged for the car to be collected  
and inspected. The inspection report identified that the left front wing,  left door mirror 
housing, left front door, left rear door,  left quarter  panel arch and moulding, right rear quarter 
panel, right rear door, right front door and right wing moulding were  all scratched and that 
the left front door pad, left rear seat cover,  left rear bumper moulding and right rear door pad 
were all scuffed.  It included  photos and a video  of the damage and recommended total 
charges of £865. Mrs J was also charged  for some excess  mileage  but she accepts the 
charge for that so I havent considered that any further.
BMW Financial Services says that the photos and video were taken the day after the car 
was collected  because the inspector was having  issues with his recording equipment.  I dont 
consider that to be unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances and the damage shown in 
the photos and videos  is consistent with the damage  described  in the inspection report. 
Mrs J signed the inspection report but the report says: Customer does not agree with 
reported condition.  Signed for collection only".
Mrs J accepts that the left front wing and left front and rear doors were damaged and that 
there may have been small marks on the door pads and the seat covers. The adjudicator 
didnt feel that the evidence  showed  that there was damage to the door pads that was more  
than fair wear and tear and he recommended  that BMW Financial Services should remove  
the £58 charge for that damage. BMW Financial Services has accepted  the adjudicators 
recommendation and I find it to be fair and reasonable  for it to credit £58 to Mrs Js account.
Having considered the photos and information  contained in the inspection report, I consider 
that there  was damage to the cars  left front wing, left door mirror  housing,  left front door,  left 
rear door,  left quarter  panel arch and moulding, right rear quarter panel, right rear door,  right 
front door, right wing moulding,  left rear seat cover  and left rear bumper moulding. I consider 
that the damage is more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines.  
I consider that its fair and reasonable for BMW Financial  Services  to charge Mrs J for that 
damage and Im not persuaded  that the charges are excessive  or that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to waive or reduce  any of those charges  or to take any 
other action  (other than the credit referred to above) in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint in part and I order BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to credit  her account with £58.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888999