K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage Mr and Mrs H used to hold with Capital Home 
Loans Limited (CHLL).  The property was put in the hands of Law of Property Act (LPA)  
Receivers in 2013.  Mr and Mrs H complain that CHLL acted  illegally by appointing LPA 
Receivers rather than a Receiver under  the Insolvency Act.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide.  This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of 
me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not 
be side-tracked by matters which have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Our investigator explained that wed already dealt with a complaint in 2014 about the 
decision to appoint receivers  generally.  All shed  be considering was whether CHLL was 
entitled to appoint specifically LPA Receivers  rather than Insolvency Receivers. In her view,  
it was, but Mr and Mrs H disagree. They say the distinction between  the two is akin to that 
between a chartered accountant and a turf accountant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round. In doing so, I dont take instructions from 
either side in the dispute.
Ive no intention of re-visiting the decision of my fellow ombudsman in 2014  on the earlier 
complaint about  the circumstances in which the LPA Receivers were appointed.  In any 
event, Mr and Mrs H made very clear  the limited focus of this complaint when they said: 
The only issue that we are asking  the Ombudsman  to consider is if CHL were  justified to 
renege on their Terms  and Conditions  and forge  their own path via a completely different 
entity, "a Receiver", or indeed, as we are Claiming, that they knowingly and willfully (sic) 
chose to bully us into submission and use an "LPA Receiver" (A property  Receiver),  
because it served their means to an end more successfully.
That being  the case, this complaint is a lot simpler than its been made  to look; CHLL didnt 
renege on its terms and conditions but followed them  exactly  and to the letter.  Ill explain 
why.
Section one of the terms and conditions is headed Definitions and Aids to Interpretation.  
Mr and Mrs H point out that nowhere  in that list is there a definition of a receiver.  That may 
be so, but section 1.1.2 does  define  the Act as the Law of Property Act 1925. So, 
wherever the phrase  the Act is used  in the terms and conditions,  it means  the LPA is the 
relevant legislation.
Section nine of the terms and conditions is headed The Lenders Powers. Section 9.2 says:  
Ref: DRN456763629 2 The power  of sale and incidental powers  conferred by the Act (my emphasis) are 
hereby extended  and varied to authorise the Lender at its absolute  discretion 
9 2 1 to enter into possession of the Property or any part thereof or into receipt of the 
rents or profits of the Properly or any part thereof Moreover, whether or not the 
Lender has entered into possession or into receipt  of rents  or profits, the Lender may 
at the sole cost and risk of the Borrower appoint  one or more receivers (my 
emphasis) of the Property and the other property of the Borrower charged under or 
pursuant to the Mortgage, each  of whom shall have the power  to act alone.
Insofar as CHLLs power under the mortgage  agreement to appoint  Receivers  arises  
specifically from the LPA, its a very simple deduction to reach that the power  in question 
must allow it to appoint LPA Receivers. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H describe  the terms and conditions as convoluted, not factual and 
a honey trap.  I have  no power to tell a lender how to draft its contracts.  What  I can say is 
that the power to appoint LPA Receivers  is pretty much universal in buy-to-let  mortgage  
contracts. 
If Mr and Mrs H had been so concerned about  the existence of such a standard  provision 
that theyd have had second  thoughts  about  going ahead with the CHLL mortgage, all I can 
add to that is that theyd have struggled  to find a buy-to-let lender whose contract didnt  
include it
Mr and Mrs H say they are of above intelligence and able to read and understand terms and 
conditions. I cant speculate on how much  of the detail of their contract with CHLL they read 
and assimilated. The responsibility for ensuring the contract was suitable for them and met 
their broader  requirements would  have lain with the broker who arranged  it for them.  
It was also the brokers  responsibility, when Mr and Mrs H signed  to say they agreed to be 
bound by the terms and conditions of the mortgage, to make sure theyd seen and 
understood them. I can make no findings here on the advice or information given by the 
broker, as this is a complaint against CHLL, and CHLL didnt sell or recommend the 
mortgage. If Mr and Mrs H wished to pursue a separate mis-selling complaint, theyd need to 
do so with the broker. 
But they should draw no inferences  from anything I say here about whether they should 
complain against  the broker,  or what the outcome would be if they did. What I can say is if 
they did complain,  and werent happy with the outcome,  they wouldnt be able to refer that 
complaint to us. Advising on and arranging  buy-to-let  mortgages isnt a regulated  activity,  so 
doesnt fall under our jurisdiction.
Ref: DRN45676363my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Capital Home Loans Limited. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4567636