K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc handled his requests to transfer 
some money.
background
In October  2018 Mr S wanted  to do an online transfer of several thousand  pounds. He 
suggested he wanted to do the transfer in sterling but instead it was done  in Euros  by 
mistake. As a result,  he said he lost money  on the transaction. Specifically, the money  was 
returned to his account, he instructed NatWest  to convert the money back into sterling.  But 
instead of doing this immediately as Mr S expected that it would, NatWest did the conversion 
later when the interest rate had changed to be less favourable to Mr S. Further, it initially 
agreed to cap its commission for converting the money  to a certain amount, and then went  
back on that and charged  him more.
NatWest said it wasnt  at fault. Its version of events differed  from Mr Ss. It said he chose to 
send the money  in euros. The money  was returned  by the beneficiary  bank because the 
beneficiary did not hold a Euro  account  with it. Subsequently the transfer was sent again in 
sterling. But before this was done  the euros  which had been returned  were converted back 
into sterling. It suggested any mistake was due to how Mr S had set up the first transfer as if 
it were an international  rather  than a domestic  transfer. Plus it said the conversion of the 
currency, from euros back into sterling, happened at the appropriate time that is when the 
second transfer happened. It agreed  it had given him incorrect information about  the 
commission it would charge.
Dissatisfied, Mr S came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He did not recommend upholding it. He was 
satisfied that Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware that the transfer was made in 
euros. Further, he didnt  agree  NatWest had done anything  wrong  in how it had handled 
converting the euros back into sterling.
NatWest accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr S didnt. He responded to say 
that the transfer process was confusing. However,  he also said I take responsibility. I should 
have, like you have suggested, got in touch  with the bank directly  for help.  But he continued 
to object to the timing  of the currency conversion.  He accepted this was NatWests  way of 
operating but he suggested it was unfair.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Mr Ss 
complaint. I am not going to uphold it. I realise  this may well disappoint Mr S. Please let me 
explain why I have  come  to this decision.
I understand that Mr S found  the online transfer  process confusing. But whilst I realise that 
this was his experience, I cant fairly  say that NatWest made the process confusing. And it 
seems Mr S is no longer  pursuing this point  going  by his response to the investigators view.
Ref: DRN47228592If Mr S was still disputing this point, I would  not have agreed  with him. As I think  it was clear  
or should have  been that he was sending the money in euros. So I cant fairly say NatWest 
has to take responsibility  for this as it merely followed his instructions, as Id expect it to do.
Ill now move  to the banks system limitations,  as Mr S appears to see it. What systems  a 
bank has is an internal matter for individual businesses to decide. We dont have the power  
to tell a business to change its systems.  But I can look at whether those systems mean that 
Mr S was treated unfairly. Thats what Ive thought about here.
Its easy to see that Mr S is disappointed  that NatWest did not convert  his cash back  into 
sterling at the point  that he wanted it to. He has lost a considerable amount of money.  Mr S 
had this to say about it: 
You stated that "NatWest do not offer retail customers the ability  to fix the foreign  exchange  
rates" without  you questioning the fairness  of such a procedure. And this is the heart  of my 
complaint.
He then compared NatWests approach to other businesses where instructions are followed 
immediately by action,  such  as when a broker is instructed to sell shares. That may well be 
Mr Ss expectation of a retail bank like NatWest but it is entitled to decide  if it will operate like 
that. I dont  agree that NatWest gave  the impression that it did operate  like that. It follows I 
dont agree Mr S was treated  unfairly because NatWest followed its own processes.
In any event Mr S was only in this predicament in the first place  because  he made a mistake  
with the online transfer. So I dont think I can fairly say Mr S made  a loss because  of 
something NatWest did wrong.
Even if it did think NatWest misled Mr S about  whether it would  carry out his instructions 
immediately, I dont  think Mr S was in a position  to do anything  differently. It is clear from the 
information Ive seen the beneficiary was chasing Mr S for the money he wanted to send it 
and this was the only way it was going to go. Ive seen nothing  to suggest he had an 
alternative plan in place which he would have  used if he had understood  how much money 
he was going  to lose.
Mr S found  himself in a very unfortunate situation.  In a short space of time he lost a lot of 
money. However, in all the circumstances, for the reasons Ive outlined, I have no proper 
basis to hold NatWest  responsible for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4722859