K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that TFS Loans  Limited  (TFS) irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable guarantor  loan. He says that he shouldnt have been given the loan due to his 
situation and the risk that he posed bearing  in mind  his existing  debt and gambling addiction.  
background
TFS provided Mr B with a guarantor loan in December 2013. The loan was for £6,000.00.  A 
broker fee of £600  and a lender  fee of £295  appear to have been added  to the loan, which  
was due to attract £10,024.28  in interest should it have run to term. So the total charge for 
the credit  was £10,919.28 and the total amount to be repaid was £16,919.28.  All of this 
meant that Mr B needed to make  72 monthly repayments of £234.99.
One of our investigators  had an initial look at what TFS and Mr B told us. And she thought  
that TFS hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly when providing this loan. So 
she didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Mr B disputed our investigators assessment  and asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
Mr Bs complaint was then reviewed by one of our adjudicators with a view to the case being 
passed to an ombudsman. And after her review she told TFS that the checks it carried out 
before providing  Mr B with this loan werent  reasonable  and proportionate  and if such  checks  
had been carried  out it would have  seen that it Mr B wasnt in a position to sustainably make 
the repayments. 
So she thought that TFS shouldnt have provided Mr B with this loan and upheld the 
complaint. TFS disagreed with our adjudicators  assessment and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
TFS provided Mr B with this loan in the period up to the end of March 2014. During this time 
it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to carry out 
consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
Ref: DRN40442412(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mr Bs case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
Ref: DRN40442413otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
Ref: DRN40442414should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
Ref: DRN40442415the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
Ref: DRN40442416And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Bs loan was provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came  into force on   
6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine that the 
relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
Ref: DRN40442417(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr B would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way? 
Ref: DRN40442418oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been  able to do so?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that TFS didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B and that he 
has lost out as a result,  I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  and regulations at the time TFS lent to Mr B required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable 
manner. TFS was required to carry out this borrower  focused  assessment in addition to a 
similar one on the guarantor. This assessment  is sometimes  referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for TFS to simply think about  the likelihood  of it getting  its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr B. The existence of a 
guarantee and the potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor  instead of Mr B, for the loan 
payments doesnt  alter,  lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN40442419There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were TFSs checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B and 
produced a credit report. During this assessment Mr B confirmed that he a monthly income 
of £4,680.00 and existing  monthly credit commitments of £2,922.84, which meant  that he 
was left with £1,438.16 for his other living expenses once his TFS loan payments were  also 
taken into account.  Mr B also disclosed that hed defaulted on a credit  card around three 
years or so previously. 
Ive carefully thought  about what TFS has said. But simply requesting  information  from a 
borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably  repay a loan. 
Mr B told TFS that hed previously defaulted  on a credit  card and thats why he wasnt  able 
to obtain mainstream  finance. So while I accept that Mr B may have said that the default was 
historic, I still think that TFS ought  to have taken  steps to verify Mr Bs monthly expenditure. 
In my view, this default coupled with the significant amount of other existing debt Mr B had 
was inconsistent with someone having  the level of disposable income that Mr B declared.  
I say this while especially  mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules  and guidance  
suggest that the risk of any credit  not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and TFS had been told that Mr B had previous problems 
repaying credit.  
I accept that TFS might have been prepared to accept  this credit risk because the existence 
of Mr Bs guarantor might  have given  it more confidence that the payments would be made,  
But I dont think that the existence  of the guarantor, on its own,  meant that Mr B himself 
would be able to sustainably make the payments given what  the credit  file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed  
affordability assessment,  without the need for verification,  is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period.  
But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  a customers finances are showing signs of 
possible strain  and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of 
time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely  that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order  for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Ref: DRN404424110In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan,  the cost of the credit, what TFS had seen or 
ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS needed to get a thorough  understanding of Mr Bs financial position in order  
to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he was 
being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking  Mr B about  the details of his income  and expenditure, I think that TFS 
needed to verify what it was being  told by Mr B, rather  than relying  on what  Mr B declared for 
his monthly expenditure. It could have done this by asking for information such  as bank 
statements or copies  of bills. And when  it obtained this information  it needed  to properly 
scrutinise it and ensure  that Mr B did have enough  funds to be able to make  the payments.
 
As theres  no evidence  that TFS did properly scrutinise  the information provided,  or that it 
asked Mr B to provide  documentary evidence to support  the expenditure declarations made,  
I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability  checks before 
providing Mr B with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to TFS that Mr B would have 
been unable  to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before this loan was provided,  
I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely  
than not that a proportionate check would have  told TFS that Mr B wouldve been unable  to 
sustainably repay  this loan. 
Mr B has now provided us with evidence  of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for this loan.  Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr B has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS mightve  carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS showing what  this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable  and proportionate to place considerable weight  
on it as an indication of what  Mr Bs financial circumstances  were  more likely than not to 
have been at the time.
As Ive already  explained, TFS was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their 
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mr B has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows that that Mr B was gambling unsustainable  
amounts of money.  In these circumstances, I dont think that TFS would have lent if it knew, 
as I think it ought to have,  that Mr B owed so much on payday loans because  of his 
Ref: DRN404424111gambling. And that his ability to repay this loan would, to in all intent and purpose,  be based  
on his success as a gambler. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr B would not have been able to make  the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further  and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances,  I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than 
not have alerted TFS to the fact that Mr B would not be able to sustainably make  the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some  other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other 
way.  
So I find that TFS didnt act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
eight of this decision, I find that:
TFS didnt complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr B to satisfy  itself 
that he was able to repay his loan; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Mr B 
was unable  to sustainably make the repayments  to this loan;
TFS didnt also act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way.
The above  findings leave me concluding that TFS unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr B 
with a guarantor  loan in December 2013.
Did Mr B lose out as a result of TFS unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Bs indebtedness as it led to him 
to being provided  with expensive credit for a significant sum. This loan was expensive  and 
he ended  up paying interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt  have been given in the 
first place. 
So I find that Mr B did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out because TFS 
unfairly provided him with this loan.
Ref: DRN404424112fair compensation  what  TFS needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Ive carefully thought  about what TFS should  do to put things right in this case. Having done 
so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for 
TFS to put things right by:
refunding the interest and charges (including  all broker and document  fees) Mr B 
paid on his guarantor  loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give    
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. TFS Loans  Limited  should  
put things right for Mr B in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4044241