K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a mortgage. Mr T says National  Westminster Bank  plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr T says it wasnt clear  the PPI was optional and it was added without his consent  - but I 
havent seen any evidence to support this. And based on the evidence  I have seen, I think  
NatWest made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this now. Mr Ts mortgage  application 
form included a section  for PPI where it asks Do you want Mortgage  Repayments 
Protector?  to which the yes box has been ticked - but theres also a no box available. Mr 
T says the form was completed by the sales person and he was just told where to sign. And 
while I accept its possible that the form was completed by the NatWest sales person,  it was 
Mr Ts responsibility  to have read and checked all the information on the application before 
signing it. And its likely Mr T wouldve checked  the information before signing to agree to it, 
as I think this wouldve  been his most significant  financial commitment  at the time. Mr T 
signed the mortgage application form, so I think this reflected  what  he wanted  at the time.  
More recently Mr T has said that he was manipulated into taking out the PPI and that he felt 
highly pressured  into it. This is difficult to reconcile with his earlier statements about the PPI 
being added without his consent. And again, Ive not seen anything  to support what Mr T has 
said, nor has Mr T provided any more detail about what made  him feel pressured at the time.  
So Im not persuaded that he was pressured into taking out the policy  and I cant  fairly and 
reasonably uphold the complaint on this point.  
Mr T has said on a number of occasions that NatWest recommended the policy to him, so I 
think he feels strongly about this. NatWest  says it didnt give him any advice or 
recommendation when selling the PPI. Ive not made a finding on this point as I dont think  
its crucial to the outcome of the complaint. I say this because, had NatWest recommended 
the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable  recommendation to have made for the reasons 
Ive set out below.  As a result, Ive considered the circumstances at the time for both an 
advised and a non-advised sale.
As an advised sale NatWest wouldve had to check that the PPI was right for Mr T  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. I say this 
because Mr T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  Ive also 
seen that Mr T was entitled  to sick pay and said he couldve  relied  on his partners income or 
help from family. But help from others cant always be relied  upon  as their circumstances 
can also change.  Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, 
and this wouldve  been in addition to Mr Ts sick pay or other means.  So these funds 
wouldve been free to use for other expenses.  Mr T also said that once he turned 50 he 
Ref: DRN41836472couldve taken money out of his pension to make  his repayments. But having  the policy in 
place meant  that his pension would remain protected for his retirement.  And so I still think he 
had a need for the cover.  
As a non-advised sale NatWest wouldve had to make sure Mr T got the information  he 
needed to decide if the policy  was right for him. Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer that 
followed his application  for the borrowing. In this the cost and benefit amounts are clearly set 
out. However, its possible some of the other information NatWest gave him about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable  
for Mr T, I also think it wouldve been useful for him if something had gone  wrong.  And so I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI wouldve  put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr T paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest treated 
him unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Ts PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ts commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr T back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4183647