K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding it for 
reason that Ill now explain.
Mr B says he was led to believe that the PPI was compulsory and a requirement  for getting 
his card.  He says that if hed known  he could choose not to take the cover  he would have 
declined to do so. But Mr Bs recollection  of this sale doesnt  appear to be that strong  or 
vivid. This isnt that surprising given how long ago it took place.  But I need to look at all the 
available evidence to decide what I think is most likely to have happened then.
BoS have provided  a copy  of the credit  card application form which Mr B completed. It 
includes a separate  section  headed  Payment  Protection dealing  with PPI. I can see that 
Mr B has signed in the space provided to confirm he wanted to take PPI. And I think the way 
the PPI is presented makes it clear that he had a choice about taking the cover.  So I think  
Mr B actively  decided  to take the PPI, knowing he could choose  not to. But I can understand 
why he might not remember this now.
BoS says this was an advised sale and our adjudicator took this to be the case.  Mr B says 
he cant remember if he received advice about  taking out the policy.  I can see that BoS 
strongly recommended taking out PPI on Mr Bs application form. But I havent seen 
anything to show that BoS made a bespoke  recommendation to Mr B about  taking PPI, 
based on his specific circumstances  at the time.  
Nevertheless, Ive also taken this to be an advised sale because this means that BoS 
needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr B. I dont know  if, or how,  it did do this. 
But from what I know of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, I cant  see any reason why the 
policy wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr B appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr B says he was entitled  to generous  sick pay from his employer at the time. He also 
thinks that he could  have relied  on his wifes  income in need.  But this policy  would have 
paid out in addition to any other means  available to him. It could have  paid out for up to 
twelve months on a successful claim if Mr B wasnt able to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So I still think he would have valued the extra  security  which  
the policy gave  him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr B. And as it was paid for by 
monthly premiums, it could be cancelled if it no longer  met his needs.
Ref: DRN45606542BoS also needed to give Mr B enough  information about the policy  for him to decide if he 
wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information BoS gave him could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for Mr B, I dont  think better information  would  have changed his mind  about taking it. I think  
he would  still have  thought it gave him useful cover  at an affordable cost.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  BOS  didnt  tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4560654