K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr L said he wasnt given enough information  about the policy to be able to make an 
informed choice. Halifax has said it would  have made the optional nature of the policy 
clear and would have got Mr Ls consent to add the policy. Where theres a dispute about 
what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  taking into account  all the evidence thats available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Mr Ls personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected   whilst other 
equally prominent products have not. From what we know more  generally about how 
Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely  there would  have been  a conversation 
with the Halifax  representative about  PPI prior to the details being entered on the 
application and Mr L has signed the application so I think this reflected what he wanted.  
If he didnt want the PPI he could have questioned this at the time. 
So overall I think Halifax made Mr L aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, 
and he agreed  to take the policy at the time.  
From  what I have  read and been told I think Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what he has told us about his sick 
pay. Mr L has said he wouldve got six months full sick pay followed by six months half sick 
pay from his employer. But this policy couldve  paid Mr L a monthly  benefit for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work through an accident or sickness and this wouldve been in 
addition to any sick pay Mr L mightve  had. It wouldve  also covered him if he lost his job for 
up to 12 months. Again  this would have been  in addition to any redundancy payment he may 
have got. So I think he couldve found  the policy  useful.  So these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN43366112This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mr L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4336611