K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold him a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his store card repayments.
background
Mr W took out a store  card in 1995.  Some months later,  in 1996 he was sold a PPI policy 
over the phone to cover  his card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100  of the balance on 
Mr Ws store card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding 
balance on the store card if Mr W was unable to work due to accident  or sickness  or lost his 
job. The benefit  would continue to be paid until Mr W returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld  because she thought  the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Mr W.
Mr W disagrees. He says he didnt know he had PPI.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information  I 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice in taking the policy. The policy was 
sold over the phone.  From what we know of FICLs sales process I think  its likely that the 
sales adviser wouldve  explained to Mr W he had a choice in taking the policy.  And because 
the policy was sold after the store card was taken out I think  its likely Mr W wouldve known 
he had a choice  in taking it and the policy was taken because  he chose to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Mr W to buy the policy. What  this means is that FICL  didnt  
recommend PPI to Mr W, they just gave him information about  PPI. This information  needed  
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
Ref: DRN40023482I cant say whether FICL gave all the information as they shouldve.  That being  said even if 
FICL did give all the information  Mr W needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Mr W was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr W says he wasnt  entitled to any sick pay and had no other  
means of making his repayments if he couldnt  work. So I think the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for Mr W in his circumstances. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr W and if he no longer 
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr W on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if FICL  had done  more as it suited 
his needs and was of value to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4002348