K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the works  to their new home  undertaken by National House-
Building Council  (NHBC) under its Buildmark building  warranty.
background
Mr and Mrs P moved into their new home in November 2013.  It came with a 10-year building 
warranty provided by NHBC.  In September 2015  they reported some  issues with their house 
to NHBC.  NHBC undertook an investigation  in November 2015 and it was discovered that 13 
items didnt  comply with its Technical Requirements. These included problems with the first 
floor dropping causing the ceiling below to bow and problems  with the windows,  doors and 
door frames.  As the builder was, by then, insolvent,  NHBC  (as per the policy  terms) took 
over the claim. 
After various visits, a schedule of works  was prepared and NHBC moved Mr and Mrs P into 
alternative accommodation in July 2016 whilst the remedial works were carried  out. It was 
planned that Mr and Mrs P would  move back in in December 2016  but, due to delays caused  
by the nature of the works, that didnt happen until July 2017. 
Mr and Mrs P submitted a complaint to NHBC in July 2017. They complained  about  the 
standard of the remedial works. Specifically they were  unhappy  with the following:
That the windows  and doors  had been badly fitted. Whilst the installation  was CERTASS 
(a glazing trading  association) registered the name  on the certificate  is not the name  of 
the company that fitted them.  Mr and Mrs P consider the certificate to be invalid.
There are gaps  between the render and newly installed windows. These have been filled 
with mastic or overlaid with new render that doesnt abut the frames meaning  large  gaps 
were left. Mr and Mrs P doubt  this is weather proof.
The tile trim in the bathroom has been  badly installed  so that it overhangs  and there are 
sharp edges which are dangerous. 
The door handles  installed  on the new French doors were not the ones  Mr and Mrs P 
selected. 
The shower screen was removed,  without their permission, and was replaced with one of 
inferior quality. 
The electrical test certificate  they were sent to guarantee the works that were undertaken 
contained incorrect information. They asked for an amended  replacement  and despite 
now having received three certificates  still dont  have one which  is correct.  They  are 
worried that if they have to sell the house  they wont be able to show  that the electrics  
are regulation compliant. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint NHBC offered  them £300 to replace two sets of the 
French door handles  and £500 for a like-for-like  replacement of the shower screen. It also 
offered £1,500 compensation  for the way it had handled their claim.
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with NHBCs response so they complained to this service.  They  
said they wanted the following:  
The installation of the windows and doors needed to meet  building regulations.  They said 
the CERTASS certificate was invalid because  the company  named  on the certificate 
didnt install the windows. They said NHBC should bring  in their local Building  Control  to 
Ref: DRN44333542inspect the installation and to see if a certificate of compliance was capable of being 
issued;
The render repaired so there were no gaps around the windows and doors. 
The dangerous chrome tiling trim to be rectified;
For an accurate and correct electrical  test certificate to be issued;
For all four sets of incorrect handles on their French doors  to be replaced  with the ones 
they chose;
For NHBC to replace their shower  screen with a like for like version of the one it 
removed;
Compensation for their house being in a filthy state when they moved back  in. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and made some  recommendations.  
She said the windows  were installed  by the company  named  on the CERTASS certificate. 
She also said that she was unable to comment on the quality of the work that NHBC had 
undertaken. After  speaking to NHBC,  it offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £1,000  so they could 
replace their shower  screen which our investigator thought was fair. She initially asked 
NHBC to re-inspect the electrics and provide  a new certificate but it said it wasnt  prepared 
to do so. She asked  NHBC if it would  pay to replace all four sets of door handles which it 
agreed to as a gesture of goodwill. Finally  she thought that the compensation of £1,500 
offered by NHBC was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with our investigators  findings so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case in December 2018. I made the following 
provisional findings:
CERTASS building regulation compliance certificate and the render
Mr and Mrs P are concerned  that the replacement windows and doors installed in their 
house have been badly  fitted. The photographs Ive seen would seem to suggest they were. 
They are also worried that their installation wasnt building  regulation compliant. 
My understanding is that any replacement windows and doors  need  to be CERTASS 
building regulation complaint. In essence this requires the installer  to be registered  with 
CERTASS. Providing they are, CERTASS issues a certificate after the installation  which  
states the installation complied with the relevant building regulations. It says on the 
certificate: this certificate is evidence,  but not conclusive evidence, that the requirements 
specified in the certificate  have been complied with.
Mr and Mrs P say that the installer named on the certificate didnt install  the windows and 
doors so the installation  isnt a compliant one. They say the main contractor that undertook  
the overall repair works installed the windows. The main contractor isnt CERTASS 
registered. They say theyve been  left with badly fitting windows that arent building  
regulation compliant. 
NHBC say the work done met the required standard and that the windows were  installed by 
the contractor named  on the certificate.  Im unable to agree. 
The photographs Ive seen show some of the windows were poorly installed. Mastic  has 
been used extensively to fill large  gaps where the render should be.
Ref: DRN44333543Theres a letter from the installer named on the certificate dated 22 June 2017 stating it 
installed the windows  and another from November 2017 saying that CERTASS  had been  in 
contact to say it was satisfied with the works undertaken. Finally theres a copy  invoice  
produced at the very end of our investigators  investigation - from the installer to the main 
contractor. The invoice  is for the cost of installing the windows at Mr and Mrs Ps house  for a 
total of £1,260. 
But the invoice  doesnt include the customer  address or the supply date. Theres  no order  
number on it. And the total doesnt correspond  with the total contract value inserted on the 
insurance backed guarantee Mr and Mrs P were  given after the installation.  The value on 
that is £850. Ive also seen  the email from the main contractor to Mr and Mrs P (which  pre-
dates any of the letters or invoices I referred to above) naming two of their carpenters  as the 
installers and not the company named on the certificate. Ive also seen correspondence 
between NHBCs personal  claims consultant and Mr and Mrs P which indicates that it was 
the main contractor that installed  the windows and that four months  after the installation they 
were still trying to get a certificate of compliance  with building  regulations. There  was no 
mention by the main contractor or the personal  claims  consultant  of the company named on 
the certificate. 
Taking all the evidence into account I think,  on balance, that the windows were installed by 
the main contractor. I understand the main contractor isnt a certified  window installer. That 
would explain the delay in the production  of the certificate (which I understand to be 4 
months), which was only produced after Mr and Mrs P repeatedly  asked for it. 
My understanding is that if windows and doors are installed that need to be building 
regulation compliant then they must be installed by a certified  or registered installer. If they 
arent, then the local authority Building Control must be asked  to certify the installation. As 
Ive said above,  it appears  the main contractor wasnt certified. 
That means I think that NHBC need  to involve Building Control to inspect the installation and 
see if it meets the required standard for a certificate  to be issued. 
Whilst I agree that from the photographs the windows  appear to have been badly fitted, I 
think that its the responsibility of Building Control  to say whether they are or arent  so I dont 
intend to make any provisional  findings about the quality of the installation. But if it turns  out 
that the windows havent been installed according to the necessary regulations Id expect 
NHBC to do the necessary work  so they are compliant.  In such circumstances it would be 
only fair and reasonable that NHBC put Mr and Mrs P back in the position they were before 
they had to make their claim. 
tiling trim
This was initially correctly installed when the WC was retiled. It was then then damaged by a 
following tradesman. NHBC  sent in a contractor  who has filed down a sharp edge. Mr and 
Mrs P have said it is still dangerous and the trim itself  which I understand was replaced as 
a result of the following  tradesmans damage   is incorrectly installed so that there is an 
overhang. 
The damage to the trim arose out of NHBCs contractors actions. It is neither fair nor 
reasonable that Mr and Mrs P should  be left with dangerous  and unsightly  trim or pay to 
replace it themselves. NHBC should  carry out a proper repair  or replacement  if necessary 
 of Mr and Mrs Ps tiling trim.
Ref: DRN44333544the electrical test certificate
NHBC has issued Mr and Mrs P with three  incorrect test certificates.  Its not unreasonable 
for them to require an accurate test certificate.  NHBC  should provide them with one. They  
can do this in one of two ways. Either by amending all the errors in the ones they have so far 
provided and issue  a fourth, correct one or, if it would prefer, attend Mr and Mrs Ps home,  
inspect the electrics and issue  a new one. Either way, it is only fair and reasonable that they 
are provided  with a certificate containing the correct details. The mistakes  may well be 
administrative errors but that isnt a valid reason for leaving Mr and Mrs P with an incorrect 
test certificate. 
door handles
NHBC has offered to replace all four sets of door handles  which  it agreed to as a gesture of 
goodwill. That seems fair to me. 
shower screen 
Ive thought about whether paying  Mr and Mrs P £1,000 so they could arrange to replace the 
shower screen themselves instead of NHBCs contractors doing the work is fair. NHBC says 
that relations between  its contractors and Mr and Mrs P have broken down so they want  to 
cash settle for this part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P say they want NHBC to arrange  and carry  out the repair  because  there maybe  
damage to the tiles when the cheap  screen  is removed. I think, at most, there will be some  
holes in the tiles that may need to be fixed. That is something any competent  
plumber/tiler/bathroom fitter can undertake. I think that £1,000  is more  than adequate for Mr 
and Mrs P to replace  and fit the high end screen that NHBCs contractors removed and 
make good  any snags. So Im not minded to make NHBC send round a contractor to 
undertake this work. 
compensation
NHBC has offered Mr and Mrs P compensation of £1,500 for the way their claim was poorly 
handled. Mr and Mrs P have mentioned that their house was dirty when they moved back in. 
When this service thinks about what fair compensation should be we look at everything that 
has gone on. I have to say that if this complaint  had passed across  my desk without there 
being any compensation offered by NHBC,  its unlikely Id have awarded any more  than 
£1,500. I think  thats a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint and in line with this services awards  in similar complaints. Im not minded  to 
award any more. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I require National House-
Building Council  to do the following:
Arrange for Mr and Mrs Ps local Building  Control to assess whether the window and 
door installation  is compliant  with the necessary regulations and carry our any 
remedial work required to ensure compliance;
Repair any render  damaged  in the repairs;
Ref: DRN44333545Repair or replace the tiling trim; 
Issue Mr and Mrs P with the correct electrical  test certificate;
Replace all four sets of door handles on the French  doors;
Pay Mr and Mrs P £1,000 so they can replace their shower  screen;
If it hasnt  done  so already, pay Mr and Mrs P compensation  of £1,500  for any distress and 
inconvenience they were caused  by the poor handling of their claim.
Mr and Mrs P replied  to say that they accepted my provisional findings in full. They asked if 
they could have a cash settlement for the four pairs of door handles  and for the tiling trim. 
They stated  that no work  had been done  to render, the windows/doors  or the reveals since 
they complained  to NHBC. 
NHBC replied  with the following comments:
That the installer named on the CERTASS certificate is both CERTASS registered 
and meets CERTASSs required criteria;
That the installation  neednt be undertaken by a CERTASS registered installer as 
long as someone from the registered  installer company is on site when the windows 
are installed;
That it is categorically evident that the installation was undertaken by the installer 
named on the certificate. The copy invoice shows the address of the property. The 
omission of a supply  date doesnt  prove the invoice isnt genuine. 
CERTASSs  main  function is to ensure double glazing installations follow building  
regulations and the issuing of a certificate  overrides  the requirement for the local 
Building Control to inspect;
As far as CERTASS is concerned its information is correct,  the certificate is genuine 
and it confirms compliance with the necessary Building Control requirements;
Even if the windows  were inspected by local Building Control the issues Mr and    
Mrs P complain  about dont fall within Building Regulation requirements. The 
installation was inspected by NHBCs claims area manager  who previously had been 
a Building Control inspector. He confirmed  compliance;
Any issue Mr and Mrs P have with the windows isnt related to whether they meet  
Building Regulations;
It doesnt understand how Mr and Mrs P could know that the installer on the 
certificate wasnt on site given they were in alternative accommodation;  
That my provisional decision suggests the invoices  are in some  way fraudulent. Its 
not reasonable to assume the named installer  didnt install the windows based  on Mr 
and Mrs Ps say-so;
Whilst I also referred to delays and the names of individuals,  doing so doesnt 
confirm the information  on the certificate  and invoices isnt genuine;
According to NHBCs  records the window reveals  have been  made  good  after the 
windows were replaced;
That it questions what evidence Ive relied on when provisionally  finding that the tile 
trim needed to be replaced. Its Claims Area Manager inspected  the repair,  felt the 
overhang was minor and that there  were no sharp edges. The appearance and 
workmanship is acceptable. It sent three photos  of the tile trim after it was made  
good in June 2017 taken  by the Claims Area Manager on his inspection  of the works;
It considers the issue with the electrical certificate to be resolved  a new one was 
sent and nothing further was heard from Mr and Mrs P;
It already agreed to cash settle for all four sets of the door handles; 
Ref: DRN44333546The complaint was passed  back to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CERTASS building regulation compliance certificate  and the render
Ive thought carefully about everything NHBC said about this issue in response to my 
provisional decision but its not persuaded me to change my mind.
 
I accept that the installer named on the certificate is CERTASS registered and meets  its 
required criteria. But for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  its reasonable to 
think the named  installer didnt install the windows. Nothing NHBC has said has persuaded 
me that such a conclusion  was an unfair  one to reach. 
NHBC has said that the installation could be carried out by a non-registered installer 
providing someone from the registered  installer was on site when the installation  was 
happening. Ive no doubt it could but Ive seen no evidence that this is what  happened here. 
As far as Im aware, this is the first time NHBC has suggested that this is what happened.  Its 
not unreasonable to expect that, if it did, it wouldve  been mentioned before now.  
Whilst I accept  that the copy invoice does show the property address Im afraid  Im unable  to 
agree that its categorically evident  that the installation was undertaken by the company 
named on the certificate. I say this for the reasons given  in my provisional decision. And 
NHBC itself has suggested that the named installer may indeed only have been on site 
rather than actually installing the windows. I havent based  my findings  solely  on Mr and   
Mrs Ps say-so.  To do so wouldnt  be reasonable.  My findings were based on the evidence I 
referred to in my provisional decision. 
I accept what CERTASSs  function is but that function can only override the need  to involve 
Building Control if the installation is undertaken by a registered contractor. Presumably 
CERTASS can only produce a certificate based upon the information its provided  with. For 
the reasons Ive given, I cant fairly  conclude  that the installation was undertaken by a 
registered contractor.
Ive made  no findings in respect of the quality of the installation or whether the installation  
actually satisfies the necessary  building regulation  requirements.  My finding  relates  to 
whether the installation was properly certified (achieved either by certification by a registered  
CERTASS installer or an inspection by Building Control). For the reasons Ive given I dont  
think it can be reasonably  said that it was. So I remain of the view that local Building  Control  
should be asked  to certify the installation. 
Mr and Mrs P should be aware that such an inspection may not encompass or comment on 
the issues that concern them. And the installation may indeed meet the required standard 
(and Ive noted  what NHBC has said about the relevant window installation building  
regulations). But, as Ive said, should  the inspection conclude that the installation isnt 
building regulation compliant then I expect NHBC to carry out the necessary work to make  
sure that it is. 
Ref: DRN44333547That the installation  was inspected by NHBCs Claims Area  Manager  isnt relevant. It must 
be certified by a registered installer or local Building Control. As the manager works for 
neither he is unable to provide the necessary  certification.   
Ive set out in my provisional decision how Mr and Mrs P came to understand the installation  
had been carried  out by the main contractor.  That they were living in alternative 
accommodation, and not on site, doesnt  allow me to reasonably  disregard that evidence. 
tiling trim
Following NHBCs  reply  to my provisional  decision I asked  Mr and Mrs P to send me some  
photographs of the tiling trim as it currently is. These were  in addition to those already on the 
file. The photographs they sent were taken in January  2019  and show  that the trim 
overhangs the tiles below. This is in contrast to the photographs of the trim before the works 
were undertaken and to the photographs  NHBC sent to me after my provisional decision.  
Those photographs are undated although I note that NHBC  say the making  good  took place 
in June 2017. But its unclear to me whether  they pre or post-dated the damage  caused by 
the following  tradesman. However, whether they did or didnt isnt relevant to my decision. I 
have seen photographs  of the tile trim taken in January 2019 and they show an overhang 
(that causes a noticeable shadow on the tiles)  and an excessive use of mastic.  My 
understanding is that the trim should be flush to the tiles. 
NHBC sent round a contractor to file down  the sharp edges. So its reasonable to assume 
that the need to do so was borne out of an inadequate installation.  Ive thought about what 
NHBC said in response to my provisional  decision but, for the reasons I gave there Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind about this issue. The damage to the trim arose  out of NHBCs 
contractors actions. It is neither fair nor reasonable that Mr and Mrs P should  be left with 
dangerous and unsightly  trim or pay to replace it themselves. NHBC should carry out a 
proper repair   or replacement if necessary  of Mr and Mrs Ps tiling trim. 
Mr and Mrs P say that they would prefer a cash settlement for the trim. That doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me although I have  no information  before me about what that might  cost. 
That would need to be agreed between  NHBC and Mr and Mrs P.
the electrical test certificate
Nothing NHBC said in response to my provisional decision has caused  me to change  my 
mind about  this part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  A new, third certificate, was indeed  sent 
but my understanding is that it contained  the same  incorrect information that had appeared 
on the second certificate. By the time it was sent,  Mr and Mrs P had already complained  to 
this service (perhaps explaining why they didnt liaise  directly  with NHBC about the errors). 
Through this service, NHBC was aware that part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint related to the 
incorrect third certificate but I note that NHBC told our investigator that it wasnt  prepared  to 
do anything further  about it because it considered the issue to be administrative. I explained 
in my provisional decision why I thought this was unfair. My view remains unchanged.   
door handles
NHBC has agreed to replace all four sets of door handles. It has also agreed that its willing  
to cash settle for this part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  I think the agreement reached about  
this item is fair so theres no need  for any further comment  from me. 
Ref: DRN44333548shower screen 
Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional findings  in full  including  those relating to the shower 
screen. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I think this is a fair resolution  to 
this part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
compensation
Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional findings  which included those related to the amount 
of compensation  theyd  been offered by NHBC. As theres no dispute around this issue I 
wont comment any further  on it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building Council to 
do the following: 
Arrange for Mr and Mrs Ps local Building  Control to assess whether the window and 
door installation  is compliant  with the necessary regulations. If it isnt it should  carry 
out any remedial  work  required  to ensure compliance;
Repair, replace,  or (by agreement)  cash settle  the tiling trim; 
Issue Mr and Mrs P with a correct  electrical test certificate;
Pay Mr and Mrs P a cash sum to replace all four sets of door handles on the French  
doors;
Pay Mr and Mrs P £1,000 to replace their shower screen;
Pay Mr and Mrs P the compensation it offered them of £1,500  for the distress and 
inconvenience they were caused  by the poor handling of their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4433354