K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund two transactions  from his account, 
which he says he didnt  authorise.
Background
Mr M is disputing two transactions,  each for £4,000,  which debited his account on 26 March 
2018. He said he didnt recognise the merchant and he hadnt authorised the transactions.  
He raised a fraud complaint  with Santander  on 12 May 2018.
Santander made some enquiries. It told him the payments had been  made  to a payment 
service provider, who was handling payments on behalf of his landlord  a housing  
association. It contacted the housing association but, before it had received any response,  it 
declined his claim because: 
Mr M had previously  paid rent to the payment  service provider between 2013  and 
2015 and so there was a relationship between them.
The disputed transactions were card payments. Previous rental payments had been 
made by direct debit  payments. A new debit card was used to make the disputed 
payments. The housing association and the payment service provider had the card 
details for his new card. Therefore, he must  have given his card details to housing 
association.
Mr M checked  his online banking 20 minutes before the disputed transactions  were  
made and in the subsequent days and weeks. However,  he didnt raise a complaint 
until May 2018. This suggests he already knew about the disputed payments.
However, Santander paid him £200, as a gesture of goodwill, for poor service issues.
Mr M wasnt happy with Santanders  decision,  so he asked  this service to investigate.
He said Santander  had already made  up its mind  and didnt wait for the housing  association 
to respond. He didnt think this was fair. And he said Santander couldnt prove hed 
authorised the payments.
An investigator looked into his complaint. She issued  two opinions. In her first opinion, she 
upheld Mr Ms complaint. She wasnt satisfied, at the time, that Santander had provided 
sufficient proof that Mr M had authorised the two transactions.
Ref: DRN40668232Santander didnt  accept the investigators  view and decided to contact the housing 
association again.
Subsequently, both Santander and this service obtained further information from the housing  
association. It confirmed  that it had issued eviction  proceedings  against Mr M for rent 
arrears. A few days  before the court  hearing, Mr M called the housing association  and asked 
how he could pay £8,000 to clear most of the arrears. The housing association  said he made  
two card payments  over the phone, each for £4,000.
The investigator issued  a second  opinion,  this time rejecting  his complaint. She concluded  
that Mr M had authorised  the two disputed  payments and that he made them to clear his rent 
arrears.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. He said he didnt owe any rent arrears and that 
neither Santander  nor the housing association could  prove  he had called and made  the 
disputed payments. He also said the housing association paid him £7,277.12 which  proves 
he didnt owe it any money. And he said Santander  failed  to follow  the chargeback rules.
Mr M has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  
He has asked for a refund  of £8,000 plus interest,  £2,500 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and a further  £900  in correspondence costs.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  a timeline, the 
transactions, the relevant  regulations and the evidence. Both Mr M and Santander have read 
the investigators view,  so I wont repeat  every  detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of 
my decision.  However, I can assure Mr M that Ive read the file, including  his comments. 
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator in her second  view and for broadly the same  reasons.
In short,  Santander  is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). But the bank  can hold Mr M liable for any disputed transactions  if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
Mr M says he didnt  make the disputed  payments  and he wants  a refund. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think  he authorised the payments.
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied Mr Ms genuine card was used,  in order  for the 
disputed payments to take place. They couldnt  have happened without the card number, 
expiry date and three-digit  security  number. But the regulations  relevant  to this case say that 
Ref: DRN40668233is not, on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold him liable.  So, I also need  to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to 
the payments  by making them himself. 
Under the relevant regulations, a payment transaction is regarded as having been 
authorised by the payer only if the payer  has given its consent to the execution  of the 
payment transaction. The regulations go on to say that such  consent must be given in the 
form, and in accordance  with the procedure, agreed  between the payer  and its payment 
service provider. The form and procedure are usually set out in the terms and conditions  
and are typically the use of banking details  such as the card details and/or PIN. 
And, having authorised a payment, a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the customers account.  
From what  Ive seen, Im persuaded that Mr M authorised the disputed payments. 
Firstly, the disputed payments were  made  with a new debit card. Neither  the housing 
association nor the payment service provider had the card details on its records. Mr M hadnt 
lost his card and he isnt suggesting that a third party made  the payments with his card.  
Indeed, there was no benefit to a third party in paying off his rent arrears. Im afraid the only 
reasonable conclusion I can reach is that Mr M gave  the housing  association his card details 
so that he could pay off his arrears.
Ive also seen the court documents for the eviction proceedings. Mr M will have  these 
documents. These show he owed rent to the housing association.
When the proceedings were issued, the arrears stood at £10,346. A court  hearing  date was 
listed for 27 March 2018.
According to the rent arrears schedule  from the housing association, the arrears increased  
to £10,851.35 by 26 February 2018.  The schedule  shows that the housing association  
received a payment from Mr M on 5 March  2018  for £2,000. 
The housing association told this service  that Mr M called it twice on 21 March 2018  
querying the balance on his account.  It sent a statement to his email  address on the same 
day. On 23 March 2018, it received  an email  from him asking how he could pay off his 
arrears. It called him and he made two further  payments over the phone for a total of £8,000.  
Santanders records confirm the payments were made on 23 March 2018. 
I havent got the call recording but Im satisfied Mr M called the housing  association and 
made the two disputed  payments. It simply  isnt plausible that his rent arrears were reduced  
just before the court hearing by error, fraud or pure coincidence. And I note the housing  
association said hed paid off 13 weeks rent arrears, which meant  it couldnt lawfully evict 
him. It had to be Mr M who paid off most  of the arrears. He is the only person who benefited 
from the payments.  I dont  think it mattered to the housing  association whether it received a 
payment or not because it was seeking to evict him anyway.
Mr M has relied on the court order dated 27 March  2018 to prove  he didnt owe the housing  
association any money. He says it shows that he only owed rent arrears of £851.35 and 
ongoing monthly charges, implying  he would  never  have made a payment for £8,000  if he 
didnt owe that amount.  Im afraid I think he is being very disingenuous.  By the time of the 
Ref: DRN40668234court hearing, he had cleared most of the arrears. The housing  association wouldve been  
obliged to tell the court about  his payments. So, the court order only records  the outstanding 
arrears on 27 March  2018, which was £851.35.  
He also said the housing association owed him money. I note the eviction proceedings were  
transferred to another tribunal for the service  charges to be assessed. And it seems the 
housing association was ordered to refund £7,277.12 of service  charges. I think  thats a 
different issue. The fact remains that, as at 23 March 2018,  he was in arrears of over £8,000. 
Lastly, Ive seen the online audit  reports.  I can see that he logged on to his online banking  
on the day the payments were made and in the following days  and weeks. He would have 
seen those payments  after they were made, yet he didnt raise any concerns until May 2018.
In summary,  I dont consider that the disputed payments  were  made  fraudulently. And I dont 
find Mr Ms evidence to be reliable or credible. Based  on the information  most  of which  is 
contained in court documents  Im satisfied  that Mr M made the two disputed  payments. 
The payee  was his landlord, not a stranger. He was facing eviction for rent arrears and he 
needed to pay off most of the arrears  in order to avoid an eviction. This is the most plausible  
and convincing explanation for what happened.
I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Santander to refuse a refund of the disputed  
payments on the basis they were authorised by Mr M. 
Poor customer Service
Ive seen Mr Ms further comments about the poor customer service he received from 
Santander. He has also complained about the quality of its investigation and its failure  to 
comply with the chargeback rules. 
At first glance, it seems that Santander declined Mr Ms claim prematurely and without 
hearing from the housing association. However,  even if it had waited for further evidence, 
the outcome would have been same  because,  as Ive explained,  the evidence  shows its 
more likely that Mr M authorised the disputed payments. 
Also, the chargeback process  usually applies where  there is a dispute  between the 
cardholder and the merchant or payee.  For example,  where a payment is taken  twice.  Its 
not used for complaints where  the cardholder denies making a payment. Mr M cant say he 
didnt make the payments and then complain  that Santander didnt follow the chargeback 
rules.
Despite this, Santander has already paid £200 for poor service issues.  I think  this is a fair 
and reasonable sum for the issues he experienced. And having concluded that he 
authorised the disputed  payments, I wont be asking  it to pay anything more.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr M, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
Ref: DRN40668235My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4066823