K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  with their mortgages.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage through the Nationwide in 2000, and with it a monthly 
paid PPI policy. This was taken out at a meeting  with the building society. The policy  gave 
them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It cost £26.98 per month and covered  
their mortgage repayments of around  £450  per month. The cover  was split equally between  
them. They were covered for up to 24 months per successful claim.
In 2005, they took out a new mortgage and with it PPI. Nationwide says that Mr and Mrs R 
only paid one premium  and this PPI policy was then cancelled and the one premium paid 
refunded.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept our adjudicators 
view and so their complaint has been  passed to me to consider. They  said the were told they 
had to take PPI to get the mortgages.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive taken into account everything that  Mr and Mrs R have said, but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs R had to agree  to 
take it. I cant know what was discussed at the meetings with Nationwide.  Mr and Mrs R said 
they were told they had to take PPI to get the mortgages. This is a very subjective  area and I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that more  likely than not they were left with the 
impression that they had to take PPI to get the mortgages.
As well as listening to what Mr and Mrs R have  said, Ive looked at the paperwork from the 
time of each  sale. I can see that on their mortgage application paperwork theyve said they 
want cover  and signed the form to confirm that. The paperwork makes it clear that PPI is an 
optional extra. Nationwide said that Mr and Mrs R selected cover over 24 months, rather 
than over 12 months, so I think  it likely that there  was a discussion about PPI and Mr and 
Mrs R selected the cover  they felt was right for them.   So, I think  it more  likely that 
Nationwide did make Mr and Mrs R aware that PPI was optional and they opted to take it.
From what  Ive seen, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, I dont think  
Nationwide recommended these policies to Mr and Mrs R, so it didnt have  to check  PPI was 
suitable for their needs. But, Nationwide did need to give them  clear  information about the 
PPI so they could  decide  whether they wanted  to buy it. 
Ref: DRN417977422000 policy
I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for them. I say this because:
they were eligible  for the PPI  that is, they qualified to be covered by the insurance;
they werent affected by the main  limitations or exclusions in the policy,  so I dont think  
having better information about  these things wouldve  changed their decision to take out 
PPI because they couldve benefitted  from everything the policy offered;
both Mr and Mrs R worked  for the same employer and said they were entitled  to a 
generous amount  of sick pay from their public sector employer; six months at full pay 
and six months at half pay.  The  policy  wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits 
and for longer, for up to 24 months  per successful claim. So, I still think  it couldve 
provided them with a useful benefit  in their circumstances. It wouldve allowed them to 
use their work benefits to meet  other  household expenses if one of them  was out of 
work. They also said they had an income  protection policy, but I cant  see that this 
provided them with duplicate cover. 
Ive taken into account that they said they had around £7,000  worth  of savings. The PPI 
wouldve allowed them  to use their savings for other  household expenses should one or 
both of them be out of work.
Its possible that Nationwide couldve made  the costs of the policy clearer. However, it 
seems likely that they wouldve thought the cost was acceptable and affordable  given 
that they signed to say they wanted  PPI. It was a monthly paid policy so they couldve 
cancelled it at any time without losing out financially.
I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of anything that Nationwide mayve done 
wrong.
2005 policy
Ive looked at Nationwides records from the time of sale and it seems that Mr and Mrs R 
paid only one premium.  This was then refunded. So, I cant see that theyve lost out 
financially here and make no award.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs R have said,  but this doesnt change my 
view. I dont think theyve  lost out because  of any problems with the sale of the policies. It 
follows that I dont  uphold their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN41797743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4179774