K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC gave him poor customer service. He was 
unable to access his online  credit card account  because he didnt  receive text messages 
from Tesco. 
He wants an apology  from Tesco for the poor service that they gave to him.
background
Mr J said that between  12 and 14 January  2019,  he tried to log onto his online  credit card 
account that he held with Tesco.  He asked for an access code to be sent to his mobile 
number that he had used before. He didnt get the access codes. 
So, on 15 January 2019, Mr J called Tesco. He said that he was told that his was his fault as 
the messages  had been sent by Tesco. Mr J said that they didnt understand the anxiety that 
this was causing him as he wanted  to check his balance because he knew itd be high and 
he wanted to make a repayment. 
Mr J raised a complaint  with Tesco. 
Mr J said that he had received other calls and text messages  there was nothing wrong with 
his phone. 
On 18 January 2019, Mr J said that he received 18 messages from Tesco giving him access  
codes.
Tesco wrote  to him on 24 January 2019. They said that their records showed  that they had 
sent two messages to Mr J with access codes. They didnt uphold  his complaint.
Mr J called Tesco on 29 January 2019  and pointed  out that more  than two messages had 
been sent. He said that Tesco agreed  to re-open the complaint but he didnt hear from them  
so he called them again on 25 February  2019.  They still hadnt looked  at his complaint.   
Mr J brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Tesco were to blame for the text messages being received 
late by Mr J. He thought that the likelihood was that there was a fault with Mr Js phone.  
Mr J wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has now come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr J wont  be happy with my decision.  Im not upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered the information received from both Mr J and Tesco. I can see from Mr Js 
screenshots that he did receive many text messages all at once on 18 January 2019. I can 
also see that Tesco sent text messages to Mr J. 
Ref: DRN40220632I believe Tesco when they say that there wasnt a problem with their text service. I can find 
no evidence that there  was. 
I can only say that there was certainly a problem  somewhere with the text messaging service 
but there is no way of knowing  where  it was. I think that Tesco,  in their letter dated 24 
January 2019,  are apologetic about  Mr J not receiving the messages but they are fair in 
saying that they didnt  think that there was a problem with their service. I dont think  that they 
are trying to blame Mr J.
I note that Mr J said that not accessing  his account caused him anxiety.  I do think that he 
couldve used the telephone banking service instead. He said that he couldnt have gone 
through all the transactions properly  using this service. But, I think that just knowing his 
balance and what he was likely to have to repay wouldve been  enough until he could 
access his online account again.  
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr J hoped for. I hope that Ive clearly  explained the 
reasons for my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC to do anything 
else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4022063