K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Mortgage Express wrote to him to say his payment arrangements had 
been broken when  it was a system error.  Mr Ms concerned  that his credit  file might  have  
been affected and he might  have incurred charges.
background
Mr M has buy-to-let  mortgages with Mortgage  Express and the accounts were in arrears. 
Mr M set up payment arrangements on the accounts  to repay the arrears.
On 29 December 2017 Mr M made his payments to the accounts and these were credited as 
normal. However on 2 January 2018  Mortgage  Express credited the amounts again, and 
then reversed the duplicated  transactions. This caused letters to automatically generate and 
be sent to Mr M saying the payment  arrangements  had been  broken.
Mortgage Express apologised  for the error  and offered £50 compensation. It also confirmed 
no charges had been incurred. Mr M wasnt happy with the resolution so referred  the matter 
to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as she felt Mortgage Express  had done enough 
to put things right. Mr M didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr M wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should  be asked or 
answered.
Ive looked at Mr Ms mortgage  accounts and Im satisfied  he didnt incur any charges on 
them due to the mistake. Mr M has questioned whether it would have affected his credit file 
but as our adjudicator explained thats  not something we can access  for him albeit she 
wasnt persuaded it would have had an impact. Our adjudicator told Mr M that he would 
need to provide us with a copy  of his credit file if he thought it had been affected and we 
could look at that, but despite two months  passing weve  not received a copy.  On that basis I 
make no order  in respect of Mr Ms credit file as Im not persuaded  as I must be  that the 
mistake has impacted it.
I understand Mr M wants to know how Mortgage  Express came up with the sum of £50 for 
compensation. Theres no formula to follow so there simply isnt a calculation  that can be 
provided. This was a relatively minor mistake that was put right quickly. There  was no 
financial loss to Mr M, and it caused  no other problems. It was simply a matter  that letters 
were sent that shouldnt  have been,  and it could be easily explained to Mr M that all he 
needed to do was ignore  them. 
Ref: DRN44246232Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Were not the regulator;  weve no power  to fine or punish businesses, and our 
awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change  what  happened. 
Mortgage Express has apologised for the mistake and offered £50 compensation and having 
considered everything  Im satisfied thats  a fair outcome. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I leave it to Mr M to decide if now  on reflection   he wants to 
accept the £50 offer made by Mortgage  Express (if hes not already done so). My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4424623