K822xcomplaint
Miss E acquired household fixtures in 2016,  by means of a fixed  sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance). She says 
these goods were not of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply,  and were  not properly 
installed by the supplier.
Miss E complains  Barclays  Partner Finance (BPF) activated her agreement before she had 
confirmed that the quality  issues had been resolved, and that the goods  had been 
satisfactorily installed.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 October  2019  a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained that I agreed  with our investigators  view 
that the complaint should be upheld in part  but I disagreed  with her settlement 
recommendations.
My provisional findings are summarised  below:
Miss Es complaint is against  BPF, and not the supplier. BPF has a responsibility to 
ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their description, have 
been supplied.  
oThere is no argument that goods  of unsatisfactory quality were initially  
supplied. 
The supplier implicitly accepted this by offering compensation of a little under £600.
oBased  on the available evidence  and on balance, I find that the suppliers 
compensation offer was fair.  
Miss E stated  that the supplier told her she would not have to pay for the goods, but 
the supplier disputes her statement. 
oOn balance, I am unable to find Miss E was told that she would not have to 
pay for the goods.
It is unclear when Miss E believed that installation  had been  satisfactorily  completed. 
She declined to sign a confirmatory document, but BPF said she told it in June 2018 
there was no work outstanding on the installation of her fixtures.
oAgain  on balance, I find that installation had been satisfactorily completed and 
BPF did not act incorrectly,  when  it activated  Miss Es agreement  in 
June 2017.
Miss E agrees  that she did receive text messages from BPF in May 2018, advising 
her that her BNPL  period  was coming to an end. She says she contacted BPF, and it 
told her to ignore these texts.  But BPF has provided evidence that it received no 
contacts from Miss E until June 2018  (although this evidence is indicative, rather than 
definitive)
oBased on the available evidence and once  more on balance, I am unable to 
find that Miss E contacted BPF before June 2018, or that BPF acted 
incorrectly when  it applied interest  to Miss Es account in June  2018
Miss Es plumbing invoice (dated May 2018) was forwarded to BPF for its comments. 
BPF noted that the suppliers sales contract did not include any major plumbing work, 
and so it was unable to see that it had any liability for these expenses.  
oI find that I share BPFs view, for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN41879362Finally, I agreed with our investigator that BPF should pay further compensation to Miss E, 
taking into account  the incorrect and confusing  information BPFs  call handlers gave to 
Miss E, and also Miss Es health  status.  Our investigator recommended  that BPF should  pay 
Miss E a further £100.
My provisional settlement  recommendation was that BPF should  pay a further  £250  to Miss 
E (in addition to the £50 payment it has already made). I also invited Miss E to reconsider 
accepting the suppliers compensation offer.
 
BPF responded agreeing  with my provisional decision. But Miss E disagreed, saying:
She made several  phone calls to BPF in May 2018  during these calls,  BPF told her 
that she should not make any payments
She was advised  as well by managers  working for the supplier that no payments 
were required   because the supplier was writing  off this debt
She does not understand  why we have not obtained recordings  of these phone calls,  
and listened to them
She wants the commitment made in these  calls (not to require payments from her) to 
be honoured
In addition, Miss E reminded us that she had paid a plumbing invoice, which  she said was 
for repairs to work unsatisfactorily done by the suppliers installers.  She said as well:
BPF also told her that her loan would be frozen and no interest would be applied
But BPF is now telling her that interest has been  applied, and adverse information 
has been recorded on her credit  file (although this could be corrected once we have 
issued a final decision)
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Miss E questions why we have not obtained  recording of calls she said she made  to BPF in 
May 2018. The reason is that BPF has told us, supported by documentary  evidence, that it 
received no contacts from Miss M before June 2018.  
BPFs evidence shows a welcome email sent to Miss E in June 2017, and text messages 
sent to her in May 2018. It then shows further  contacts in June  2018  and subsequently. 
While the evidence is not definitive  (it is very hard to prove a negative),  it does indicate a 
lack of other contacts. 
Taking into account this indicative evidence, and on the balance  of probabilities, I was 
unable to find (in my provisional decision) that phone  contacts  occurred between  Miss E and 
BPF in May 2018. And I have seen no evidence that causes me to change my finding  
which means I cant agree with Miss M that BPF told her (in phone calls during May 2018) 
she should not make any payments.
Ref: DRN41879363I was similarly  unable to find it was more  likely  than not that BPF acted incorrectly, when it 
applied interest  to Miss Ms account  in June 2018. And again I have seen no evidence  that 
causes me to change  my finding  which means  I cant tell BPF to reverse these charges (or 
to remove adverse information it may have recorded  on her credit  file).  
I have also reconsidered  my other findings. But, once more,  I have seen no evidence that 
causes me to change  them.
I sympathise with Miss E, and I appreciate this is not the outcome she is seeking.  But I am 
pleased that BPF has accepted my provisional  settlement recommendation, and so it will 
pay a further £250  in compensation to her. I wish as well to repeat my invitation to Miss E, to 
reconsider accepting the suppliers compensation offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) to pay compensation of £250 to Miss E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41879364COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
9 October 2019
complaint
Miss E acquired household fixtures in 2016,  by means of a fixed  sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance). She says 
these goods were not of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply,  and were  not properly 
installed by the supplier.
Miss E complains  Barclays  Partner Finance (BPF) activated her agreement before she had 
confirmed that the quality  issues had been resolved, and that the goods  had been 
satisfactorily installed. 
background 
Miss E entered into her agreement with BPF in February 2016,  and installation  of the fixtures 
began in April 2016. She said:
Some of the fixtures  were faulty
The fixtures were not installed properly
Damage was caused during the installation, which was not repaired properly by the 
suppliers installers   this meant  she needed  to hire and pay separately  for plumbers 
and a carpenter, in order to achieve satisfactory  repairs
BPF said it understood  that:
The supplier contacted Miss E in August 2016   it asked her to sign a document 
confirming that the installation  of the fixtures had been satisfactorily  completed
Miss E told the supplier that she would not sign until compensation was offered 
In recognition of the installation problems, the supplier offered Miss E in 
September 2016 a refund equivalent to 40% of the installation  costs
Miss E did not accept  the suppliers  offer (this offer remains  open)
The supplier tried unsuccessfully, on several  occasions between October 2016 and 
April 2017, to obtain confirmation  from Miss E that installation had been  completed
The supplier then appealed  to BPF,  and it activated her agreement  in June 2017
Miss E said that, before September 2016 and because of the problems, the supplier had told 
her that she would not have to pay for the goods  although she provided no supporting  
documentary evidence,  and the supplier disputed  her statement. She added that she never 
signed to confirm satisfactory  completion, and so BPF should  not have activated  her 
agreement.
Ref: DRN41879365BPF said:
It was not aware of the supplier telling  Miss E that she would not have  to pay for the 
goods
It emailed  Miss E in June 2017,  advising her that her agreement had been activated
Her agreement included a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL)  clause   this meant that she 
would not be charged interest, if she repaid the loan within one year of activation
During May 2018, it sent text messages  to Miss E, advising her that her BNPL period 
was coming to an end
Miss E phoned it in mid June  2018,  saying it had previously advised her not to make 
payments into her loan account  it had no record of previous contacts with her, and 
it disputed her statement 
It told Miss E that it would investigate this matter   it also advised her that no charges 
would be applied  to her account and, incorrectly, that there would be no impact on 
her credit  file if she did not make  monthly payments (required because she had not 
repaid the loan in full during the BNPL period)
Miss E phoned it twice  more in June 2018  she told it that there was no work 
outstanding on the installation of her fixtures, and that it had previously  advised  her 
that no interest would  be applied  to her account
It had previously advised Miss E that no charges  would be applied to her account  
but not that no interest would be applied
And (in the third June  2018 phone call) it correctly advised her that her account was 
in arrears, that payment was required, and that her credit file might be affected
Miss E phoned it again in early July 2018   
oshe complained  that her agreement should not have been  activated and 
funds passed  to the supplier, because  she had not signed to confirm 
completion
oshe said it had previously advised her that her credit file would not be 
impacted
oshe also said that she was suffering from a serious illness,  requiring hospital 
treatment 
BPF wrote to Miss E in early August 2018. It said that it had given her incorrect  information 
about her credit file, and it upheld this part of her complaint. It paid her £50 in 
acknowledgement of this error. It also asked Miss E to make the required payments to take 
her account  out of arrears, and it would then amend  negative information on her credit  file.
But BPF said that it had acted correctly when it activated her agreement in June 2017,  and 
when it applied interest to her account in June  2018   both actions were within  the terms and 
conditions of her agreement. And so it was unable to uphold this part of her complaint.
BPF only needed Miss E to have  received  the goods and services stated in the agreement, 
before it could activate  the agreement and pass funds to the supplier  it did not require her 
signature. And the supplier had told it that these goods and services had been received.
BPF said as well in its letter that it was sorry to learn  about  Miss Es health concerns. It had 
notified its support  team,  who might  be able to offer further assistance.
Ref: DRN41879366Miss E then referred her complaint to us. She told us:
She had been  in contact with BPF several  times before she phoned it in June 2018
She had received text messages in May 2018  but she was told by BPF that they 
were probably scams,  and that she should not make any payments
She did not receive the £50 payment that BPF said it had made  in August 2018
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part:
Our investigator would  not have expected the supplier to tell Miss E that she would 
not have to pay for the goods,  and then to make  a compensation  offer
Our investigator would  have  expected  that there  would have been correspondence,  
confirming that Miss E would not have  to pay for the goods
Our investigator felt there may have been a misunderstanding, but she was unable  to 
recommend that Miss E should not pay for goods which   after repairs  were fully 
functional
Our investigator also felt that the suppliers compensation offer was fair, and in line 
with the award  she might  have  recommended in these circumstances
Based on evidence received from BPF, our investigator was satisfied that:
It had not acted incorrectly, when it activated Miss Es agreement  in June 2017, and 
applied interest  to her account in June 2018
It had not told Miss E to ignore the text messages sent to her in May 2018
It had made the £50 payment in August 2018
But our investigator felt the £50 payment was insufficient, taking into account the incorrect  
and confusing information BPFs  call handlers gave to Miss E, and also Miss Es health 
status. Our investigator  recommended that BPF should pay Miss E a further £100.
 
BPF agreed  with our investigators  recommendations,  but Miss E disagreed. Miss E wanted 
the commitment she said had been  made  to her  that she would not have to pay for the 
goods  to be honoured. 
Miss E agreed with our investigator that there should have been correspondence, confirming 
that she would not have  to pay for the goods. But she said that her priorities were different 
during her hospital  treatment, and she was unable to chase the supplier for this 
correspondence.
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Miss Es complaint is against  BPF, and not the supplier. BPF has a responsibility to ensure 
that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their description,  have been 
supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have regarded  the goods  as 
satisfactory, taking into account all relevant  circumstances.
Ref: DRN41879367There is no argument that goods  of unsatisfactory quality were initially  supplied. The supplier 
implicitly accepted this by offering compensation of a little under £600. I also note that the 
supplier appears to have  believed  from August 2016 onwards that installation had been 
satisfactorily completed.
Our investigator thought that the suppliers compensation  offer was fair. Based  on the 
available evidence and on balance, I find that I have reached the same view as our 
investigator, for the same  reasons.  
I sympathise with Miss E, who told us that she has suffered with serious health issues.  And, 
on the one hand, she says this may be why she is unable  now to provide us with evidence,  
supporting her statement that the supplier told her she would not have to pay for the goods. 
While, on the other hand, the supplier  disputes  her statement. And I share our investigators 
view that the supplier would not be expected  firstly  to tell Miss E that she would not have to 
pay for the goods,  and then to make  a further and partial compensation offer.  
I agree  with our investigator that there  may have been a misunderstanding. But, in the 
absence of evidence  to the contrary and on balance, I am unable to find Miss E was told that 
she would  not have to pay for the goods.
It is unclear when Miss E believed that installation had been  satisfactorily  completed. She 
declined to sign a confirmatory document, but BPF said she told it in June 2018 there  was 
no work outstanding  on the installation of her fixtures.  
Miss E has provided to us a plumbing invoice dated May 2016,  and a letter  from her 
carpenter referring to work done in 2016,  both of which she says relate to repairs  to the 
suppliers installation. This suggests:
Repairs were made, and the installation was satisfactorily completed, during 2016
Miss E was not signing the confirmatory  document, because she wanted further 
compensation from the supplier  (up to writing  off the full cost of the goods)
And so, again on balance,  I find that installation had been satisfactorily completed and BPF 
did not act incorrectly,  when it activated  Miss Es agreement in June 2017. 
Miss E agrees that she did receive  text messages from BPF in May 2018, advising her that 
her BNPL  period was coming to an end. And, on the one hand, Miss E says she contacted  
BPF, and it told her to ignore these  texts. 
While, on the other hand:
BPF has provided evidence that it received no contacts  from Miss E until June 2018 
 although this evidence is indicative, rather than definitive
Like our investigator,  I would  expect Miss E to have contacted BPF before June 
2018, at least  to enquire about her agreement  (entered into in February 2016)  had 
it been closed,  or had it been  activated  (albeit  without her consent)?
And so, based on the available evidence and once  more  on balance, I am unable to find 
that:
Miss E contacted  BPF before June 2018
BPF acted incorrectly, when  it applied interest to Miss Es account in June 2018
Ref: DRN41879368Miss Es plumbing invoice  was forwarded to BPF for its comments. BPF noted  that the 
suppliers sales contract  did not include any major plumbing work, and so it was unable  to 
see that it had any liability for these  expenses.  I find that I share BPFs view, for the same  
reasons.
Finally, I agree with our investigator  that BPF should  pay further compensation to Miss E, 
taking into account  the incorrect and confusing  information BPFs  call handlers gave to 
Miss E, and also Miss Es health  status.  Our investigator recommended  that BPF should  pay 
Miss E a further £100.
BPF has already acknowledged that it provided incorrect information, in its second phone  
conversation with Miss E during June 2018. I have listened to recordings of BPFs third 
phone conversation with her in June 2018, and its phone  conversation  with her in early  July 
2018. 
In the third June conversation, the BPF call handler was appropriately  sympathetic and 
engaging. But he told Miss E that, if he was her, he would make  the outstanding  payments, 
although she did not have to take his advice. This is somewhat different from telling Miss E 
that payment  was required, and that her credit  file might be affected.
In the July conversation, the call handler was possibly over-sympathetic. The handler  
became aware  of Miss Es health  status, told her not to worry, and gave her the impression 
that the appropriate department would sort out her problems.
  
So, I would not be surprised if Miss E was confused by these phone conversations,  and 
distressed when she eventually received the correct information. BPF was not at fault when 
it applied interest to her account, and started  requiring monthly  payments from Miss E. But it 
was at fault when it failed  on three occasions  to explain accurately to her the resulting 
situation, and the implications for her credit  file.
And so I agree  with our investigator that this complaint should  be upheld in part. But I think  
that BPF should  pay a further £250 to Miss E (in addition to the £50 payment it has already 
made). I would also invite Miss E to reconsider accepting the suppliers compensation offer.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Miss E or Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner Finance) 
by 23 October 2019, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint  in part. 
My provisional settlement  recommendation is that Barclays  Partner Finance should pay 
further compensation of £250  directly  to Miss E.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4187936