K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied  with finance  from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I proposed  to uphold Mr Fs complaint and to 
require MBFS to refund 30% of his monthly  payments. I invited  Mr F and MBFS to let me 
have any further  evidence or arguments they wanted to make  before I finally  determined  the 
matter.
Mr F said he appreciated that I had recognised his loss of use of the car. He said his annual 
contracted mileage  was 14,000 and he felt that my calculation of his loss of use should be by 
reference to that figure. He suggested that he had covered  45% less mileage than expected 
and asked me to increase the refund of his monthly  payments accordingly.
MBFS said it didnt think it was fair that it should  be penalised for Mr F not returning his car 
when the offer to accept a rejection was made.  It said that just because Mr F was unhappy 
with the goodwill aspect of the offer didnt mean  he shouldnt have returned the car at that 
point and mitigated  his losses. MBFS didnt think it was reasonable  that it was being asked 
to cover additional costs  which would not otherwise have been incurred.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to Mr Fs comments about his annual contracted  mileage, the calculation in my 
provisional decision was based on average  annual mileage. The fact that a consumer has a 
particular level of annual  contacted mileage  doesnt necessarily mean that all of this mileage 
will be covered in a given year. This is why I chose to base my calculations on average use 
of 12,000 miles and I remain  of the view that this is the correct  approach.
In relation to MBFSs comments  about   the fact that it had accepted rejection in February 
2019, Ive already explained in my provisional decision that because Mr Fs complaint hadnt 
been resolved  to his satisfaction  at that time, I didnt think he should be penalised for 
bringing his complaint to this service. If I were to disallow interest this would be penalising  Mr 
F because this service generally awards interest  when we refund monthly payments.
Ive taken both parties  additional comments into account but for the reasons Ive given my 
view hasnt changed and I see no reason  to reach  different conclusions from those which I 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  this complaint.  Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited  
must:
Ref: DRN45155222Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Return the deposit of £25,000 together with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 30% of Mr Fs monthly payments together with simple  interest  of 8% from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
Remove any information registered with the credit reference agencies  in relation to 
the agreement
Pay £540 and £299 in respect of the tracker
Pay £80 for DVLA  plate transfer fee
Pay £250 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4515522