K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  took almost three weeks  to arrange a 
repair to his dishwasher after he claimed  on an insurance policy  covering his kitchen  
appliances. He also says the policy was mis-sold.
background
Mr P contacted British  Gas about  his broken dishwasher. An engineer  attended, but he had 
to wait over two weeks for the first available appointment. British Gas offered Mr P £30 to 
apologise for the delay, but it explained there  was no earlier  appointments available.
Mr P remained unhappy,  so he brought a complaint to this service. He explained British Gas 
didnt meet the service standards he expected from the policy  and he didnt consider it to be 
fit for purpose.  He also said British Gas had ignored his complaint about  the policy being 
mis-sold. Mr P said he was without a dishwasher for three weeks and spent lots of time 
trying to sort the matter out. He explained he wanted  the policy to be cancelled and his 
premiums refunded.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She thought £30 fairly  acknowledged the inconvenience caused by the delay,  and 
she noted this was roughly equivalent  to two months premiums. She also noted  Mr P had 
benefitted from the policy in the past for other  issues. Mr P disagreed with our investigator, 
so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 October  2019. I explained I didnt intend to uphold  the 
complaint. However,  because I had considered some points that our investigator hadnt fully 
commented on, I wanted to give both parties  a chance to reply before I reached my final 
decision. I said I would consider any further comments or evidence I received by                    
14 November 2019. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Our investigator explained to Mr P that he would need to make a separate  complaint about  
the sale. However, I note from British  Gas internal notes  that his complaint included the 
sale, but it simply failed to address this aspect. As such, Im satisfied  that the sale is 
something I can consider  here, along with the claim.
claim
I can appreciate why Mr P would  have expected a quicker appointment than the one he was 
offered, and I dont  doubt this caused  a degree  of inconvenience and frustration. However,  
although the policy terms confirm a 24/7 breakdown  helpline, they dont guarantee a visit 
within a set timescale. The terms explain visits and repairs will be carried out within a 
reasonable time.
Ref: DRN46057132I understand that Mr P feels strongly  his wait for a visit wasnt reasonable  and British Gas 
does accept he had to wait longer than usual for an appointment.  However, given its likely 
he could have used  his kitchen sink during this period  as an alternative to the dishwasher, 
Im persuaded £30 is a fair amount  of compensation for the degree of inconvenience the 
extra wait can reasonably be said to have caused.
sale
After the complaint was passed to me, our investigator asked Mr P to clarify why he believes 
the policy was mis-sold,  and to highlight the information he considers to be misleading. But 
Mr P has not responded to either of her emails.  Therefore, I make my provisional  findings 
based on the information available.
British Gas has given  us records which show the policy  was taken out during a telephone 
call in 2013. It says the call recording is no longer available, which isnt unusual when so 
much time has passed. British Gas also says the policy was taken  out on a non-advised 
basis, and if so, this means it was Mr Ps responsibility to make sure the policy met his 
needs  rather  than British Gas responsibility to make sure it was suitable  for him.
I havent seen  anything that leads  me to believe  advice was given about the suitability of the 
policy, so I accept the sale was non-advised. In any event, even if advice was given to Mr P, 
I havent been told anything that persuades  me the policy wasnt  suitable for him.
Whether advice was given or not, British  Gas had to give Mr P information in a clear, fair, 
and non-misleading  way so he could make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy out. 
Its my understanding that Mr P believes the policy was mis-sold because he understood he 
would receive a visit from an engineer within 24 hours of making a claim. But I havent seen 
or been told anything that persuades me he was misled about this, either  verbally or in 
writing. 
British Gas has provided the policy  terms that applied at the time of the sale,  and I consider 
it likely  that Mr P would  have been  given a copy of these. Like the current policy  terms, they 
explain that British  Gas will meet its responsibilities  within a reasonable time.  The original 
terms do refer to aiming for a 24 hour visit if the policyholder has no heating or hot water, 
but that doesnt relate to the section of cover  Mr P took out.
British Gas has also provided the subsequent  annual renewal letters that were  sent to Mr P, 
and I havent seen anything in these  documents that implies a visit within  24 hours  if one of 
his kitchen appliances breaks down   they only confirm a 24/7 helpline.
So, based  on the information  available, Im not persuaded  the policy was mis-sold. Ive not 
been shown anything to suggest it wasnt suitable for Mr P, or told anything that persuades  
me he was given misleading information  about the visit timescales following a claim.
British Gas acknowledged my provisional decision,  and it explained it had nothing further to 
add. However, Mr P didnt  respond   despite being  chased by our investigator.
Ref: DRN46057133my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has submitted further  comments or evidence. But having  re-considered the 
information available,  Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons. 
my final decision
I appreciate Mr P is likely  to be disappointed.  But for the reasons Ive set out above, and in 
my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4605713