K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled his 
buildings insurance  claim.
background
On 24 October 2017, Mr V registered an escape  of water claim with Admiral. The next day a 
surveyor came around to Mr Vs property and advised that trace and access  work to find the 
source of the leak would need to be carried out. And this would need to be followed by 
drying and strip out work to the damaged areas of the property.  
Some of the work started before the end of the year in 2017; however, the strip out work was 
not completed until 9 March 2018.  The drying process was started on 12 March 2018 and 
drying certificate was issued on 20 March 2018.  
From 2 January 2018 until 30 May 2018, Admiral provided Mr V and his family with an inside 
pop up kitchen as during  this time their kitchen was off limits. They also had no access to 
their washing  machine so Admiral was reimbursing them for their laundry  bills. From 
2 January 2018 until 25 May 2018, Admiral was paying Mr V and his family a total 
disturbance allowance of £10 a day. 
While Admirals appointed  agents were completing  the work a lot of appliances  and other 
goods were damaged in the process. Mr V and his family have since accepted  a cash 
settlement for the damage caused  to their kitchen, appliances, other damaged  items and the 
outstanding work that still needed to be completed at the property. 
There were a lot of delays  throughout those  seven and half months, and Mr V and his family 
spent a significant amount of time chasing  and dealing with Admiral and their appointed 
agents. Admiral paid Mr V and his family  £250 on two different occasions; a total of £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr and Mrs V were  unhappy with £500 and are of the opinion  that they should  be further 
compensated for the distress  and inconvenience  caused, so they brought  their complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and she was of the opinion that the cash 
settlement for the damaged goods and further  work required, the disturbance  allowance,  
reimbursed laundry expenses and the £500  compensation for distress  and inconvenience 
was considered fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs V disagreed with the investigator. They said that for 6 months they had to put 
their family life on hold as a result of Admiral and its agents negligence, incompetence, poor 
workmanship and continual unnecessary delays. They  said they spend a lot of time chasing 
Admiral and its agents, sourcing replacement products and being available for delivery. They  
said that Admiral saved a lot of money  by not having  to find alternative accommodation for 
the family,  and that the £500 is not even  remotely adequate to cover  half a year of 
unnecessary stress,  anxiety, sleepless nights and tears.  
So the complaint has been passed  to me for decision.
Ref: DRN47578312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that the only issue remaining for me to decide  is whether the compensation 
paid to Mr V and his family for the delays, distress  and inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
Weve asked Admiral how long it anticipated that the remedial works wouldve lasted. But it 
didnt provide us with any timescales saying there may have been potentially more  works 
found or difficulties  in reinstating. Mr V is of the opinion that the remedial works shouldve 
only lasted about  2 months.  I think 2 months  seems  reasonable based on the work that was 
required, which means that Mr V and his family suffered about 5 and  months of 
unnecessary delays; minus the time during  the Christmas break  when they requested 
Admiral to put the work on hold. 
During this time I can see that Admiral tried to accommodate  Mr V and his family as much as 
it could. I can see that a pop up kitchen was provided for them. I know that it is not an ideal 
solution due to its size and the fact that Mr V and his family had to eat in their living  room. 
But, I can also see that Admiral was paying them a disturbance allowance of £10 a day and 
reimbursing all their laundry expenses. In addition, it offered Mr V and his family alternative 
accommodation. I know Mr V has said that Admiral  saved a lot of money by not having to 
find alternative accommodation for the family, but this option was available to them and they 
chose not to take it because of their pets and their daughters  studies at the time.  
I realise that Mr V and his family experienced unnecessary stress, anxiety, sleepless nights 
and tears during the entire time of the claim when dealing  with Admiral and its agents. But I 
think the £500 compensation paid by Admiral  is a fair reflection of the upset that has been 
caused during  that time. So whilst I realise  that my decision will come as a disappointment to 
Mr V and his family, Im not asking  Admiral to increase  the compensation paid to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4757831