K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car under his 
motor insurance policy  after it was stolen. He wants the correct valuation. 
background 
Mr Js car was stolen and destroyed. esure offered him £16,640 less the policy excess  as its 
market value at the time of loss. But Mr J said he couldnt replace the car for this amount. He 
thought his car was worth  about £22,100. Mr J also complained that hed had to spend time 
on his complaint and the valuations. He thought esure should compensate him for this. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
esures handling of the claim had caused  Mr J unwarranted inconvenience as all claims 
create inconvenience. He thought the policy  wording  was clear. He thought esure had 
responded to Mr Js concerns. 
But the adjudicator thought esures valuation of Mr Js car was inaccurate as it had entered 
incorrect information when it looked for it in the motor  trade  guides.  He looked for the car 
with the correct information and found three higher valuations. 
He thought esure should increase its offer to the average of the two closest valuations, 
£17,462.50 (less the policy excess). And he also thought esure should pay Mr J interest on 
the difference between its interim offer and final settlement. The adjudicator later explained 
that esure had told Mr J that he could cash the interim settlement cheque without prejudicing 
his complaint. 
esure agreed to do this. But Mr J responded that he thought the valuation was too low and it 
was better  reflected in the highest  motor trade guide valuation the adjudicator found. He 
asked for this to be reviewed, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the concerns Mr J raised  about  how his claim was handled. I can see that 
Mr J initially raised concerns with esures handling of the valuation of his car and with its 
interim payment. From what I can see hes accepted the adjudicators view about these. So I 
wont consider these further but concentrate on what I think  is Mr Js main concern, the 
valuation of his car.
Mr Js policy  provides for the market value of his car in the case of total loss. I think  this is 
clearly stated in the policy terms and conditions. And I think  esure follows  our services 
approach when obtaining a valuation of the cars  market value. So I cant  say that this policy 
term is unfair or unreasonable. 
The adjudicator has explained this services  approach to car valuations  in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN48254522In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
I can understand that Mr J feels that these guides dont provide an accurate valuation for his 
car. But we think using the guides  is a fair approach to resolving valuation disputes.  
The adjudicator thought  esures initial valuation was inaccurate as esure had input incorrect  
details when valuing Mr Js car. He corrected this and produced valuations from the three 
guides used at the time. Ive checked these and I can see that he looked for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage, and condition as Mr Js. I can also see that he took into 
account the optional extras as shown  in Mr Js sales  invoice. So Im satisfied that the 
valuations he found were correct. 
The guides  produced valuations of £17,155, £17,770 and £18,881.  As the adjudicator has 
already explained, when  the valuations provide an outlying figure, we think  its reasonable 
for an insurer to discount this. esures original offer was for the average of the two closest 
valuations. I think this approach is fair. And so I think an offer of £17,462.50 (less the policy 
excess) is fair and reasonable for the market  value of the car. 
Mr J provided  us with a spreadsheet of valuations  for similar cars hed compiled from 
advertised prices. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are 
essentially asking prices  and arent  selling prices.  Its for this reason that the trade guides 
are used as they provide evidence of likely  retail  selling  prices. 
 
I can see that esure has paid Mr J the settlement  recommended by the adjudicator. This 
included interest  on the difference between  the incorrect  and correct  valuation. I think that 
was fair and reasonable as Mr J was without  that sum for some time. I think it was Mr Js 
choice not to cash the interim payment cheque when he first received it. I dont require esure 
to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
do the following, as its already done:
1.Increase the valuation  of Mr Js car to £17,462.50  (less the policy excess).
2.Pay Mr J interest  at 8% simple per annum  on the difference  between the original and 
revised valuations  from the date of the interim payment to the date the revised  payment  
was made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4825452