K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which attached  and forms part of 
this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Miss Ms 
complaint should  be upheld.  In summary, I didnt  think Barclays had given Miss M enough 
information about the PPI for her to make an informed decision about  taking  it out. But based 
on her circumstances  at the time, I didnt think better information would have put her off.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision to confirm she accepted what Id said.  And 
Barclays confirmed it had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think Miss Ms 
PPI was mis-sold.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or argument to consider, I can see no 
reason to reach a different decision to the one I set out in my provisional decision. It follows 
that I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold so Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss M.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Miss M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont plan to award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41557632copy provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2003. 
Miss M says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think  Barclays made it clear  that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this. The credit card application form she 
completed had a section about PPI and there were boxes to tick to say Yes  or No to PPI. Miss M 
ticked the Yes  box. 
Barclays didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss M so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. Although 
the application form set out that the PPI provided cover  for accident,  sickness and unemployment and 
referred her to the insurance  conditions,  I dont think this was enough to highlight and draw to Miss 
Ms attention to the significant features, exclusions  to and limits  on the cover.
One of the significant exclusions that should have been drawn to Miss Ms attention was that the PPI 
wouldnt pay unemployment benefits if she was made redundant  within  the first 180 days  of the policy  
starting. Our adjudicator thought Miss M would  have  been  put off taking out the PPI if shed known 
this. But I dont agree.  
I accept Miss M had only been in her job at the time for around six months. I also accept shed had a 
number of shorter  term jobs prior to this and if the reason shed changed jobs so regularly had been 
due to redundancy, I can see she might have been concerned about  being  made  redundant again. 
But shes told us she changed jobs because of career progression and it seems  like shed always  got 
a new job before leaving her old one  there werent  any gaps between roles.  So I dont think  she 
would have been concerned  about being made redundant within  the six months or so of taking out the 
PPI  particularly considering her employer  at the time.  It follows that I dont  think  she would have 
been put off taking out the PPI if Barclays had drawn  this exclusion to her attention.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for her if 
something went wrong.
Barclays also didnt make  clear the cost of the PPI or benefit. But Im satisfied Miss M ought 
reasonably to have known she would  have to pay something for the PPI and that it would  cover a 
portion of her outstanding balance. And shes told us she had no other means to make the credit card 
repayments if she wasnt  working. So I dont think better information about the cost and benefit  of the 
PPI would  have changed her decision about taking it out.
I dont currently think Barclays needs to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Ref: DRN41557633Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Miss M about  that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  Bank  UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit  share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so I dont plan to 
award any further compensation. 
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4155763