K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans Quick Quid provided to Mr S in March 2010 and 
May 2010. Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr S complaint and thought that loan two 
shouldnt have been provided to Mr S. 
Mr S accepted our adjudicators view but Quick  Quid disagreed with it. As the parties havent 
been able to agree on a resolution  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr S could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  repay his loans in a sustainable  manner. And I think  that this is wider  
than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
Ref: DRN45838112This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr S, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr S was unlikely to have been able to make 
the payments  for this loan. I say this because:
Mr S was lent significantly  more than what he was lent for loan one. And given  just 
how much  of his income the repayment  was taking  up, I think  a proportionate check 
ought to have established whether Mr S had any outstanding  short-term loans 
elsewhere. I also think such  checks would  have shown Mr S existing commitments 
meant he wouldnt have been  able to repay  Quick Quids  loan without undue difficulty 
or borrowing further. So I think that proportionate checks  would more  likely than not 
have shown Quick  Quid that Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay loan two.  
I think that Mr S lost out because Quick Quid provided this loan as he had to pay interest  
and charges that he shouldnt have had to. So Im upholding the complaint about loan two 
and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  still recorded  about loan two on Mr S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr S complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583811