K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of his business,  G, about  what DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance 
Company Limited  did when he made  a claim on Gs property let and legal protection policy.  
background
G purchased a property  in August  2014  and took out a legal assistance policy with DAS.
Mr K asked his surveyor to contact an agent  about letting some rooms in the property.  The 
agent did let rooms in the property but Mr K says this was without his authorisation. And the 
number of rooms  let by the agent  meant the property needed  to comply with the rules  about 
houses in multiple  occupation (HMO). The local authority informed Mr K that it would be 
taking enforcement action unless its use as an HMO ceased.  
Mr K contacted DAS in August  2015  and said the agent hadnt passed on rent to him and he 
wanted assistance to try and recover that. He also asked  if Gs policy  could help with the 
eviction of the tenants. DAS referred  the matter to solicitors on its panel who were  
subsequently unable to act. 
In June 2016 DAS responded to complaints  Mr K had made about delay in moving matters 
forward. Those issues have been dealt with as part of a separate  complaint to us and arent 
something Im looking at. Following that DAS agreed  terms of appointment with his solicitors. 
It then agreed to fund counsels  opinion on the case. That opinion  was provided to DAS in 
December. It advised  on the action to be taken against the tenants but said a claim against 
the lettings agent didnt  have reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy  
terms). So DAS said it wouldnt  be covering this. 
The eviction claims were  progressed by the solicitors. In March they asked DAS for 
confirmation that costs  had been  approved. In June the solicitors asked DAS for funding for 
counsels opinion which was agreed. The tenants  were evicted from the property  in 
November 2017.  
Mr K complained to DAS.  He said, in summary,  there had been further delay by DAS in 
dealing with matters  following  the appointment of his solicitors. He was unhappy DAS had 
declined a claim for payment of rent arrears and for appealing an enforcement  notice issued 
by the local authority. He was also unhappy a property damage claim hadnt been  
considered. And he said DAS sent letters that were wrongly addressed.  
DAS accepted it could have been more proactive in moving matters forward  between  
December 2016  and March 2017.  And there had been some  delay  in paying the panel 
solicitors. It also agreed some letters were wrongly addressed (though as these were  sent by 
email they had been correctly delivered). It agreed to pay a total of £500 in recognition  of the 
inconvenience G had been caused.  But it didnt think it had done anything wrong in turning 
down the other claims that Mr K made. In particular it said the policy didnt  provide  cover for 
rent arrears.  
Our investigator thought the compensation  was a fair way of recognising the impact on G of 
what DAS got wrong. And she thought DAS had correctly advised Mr K the policy  wouldnt 
cover the other things  he wanted to claim for. Mr K didnt  agree. He said DAS was quoting  
from the wrong policy terms and the ones hed been  provided with did cover loss of rent. 
Ref: DRN45685492Having reviewed the file I noted the policy terms DAS had used were dated September 2015 
but Gs claim fell within the previous policy year. Following further discussion DAS accepted  
a different policy document (dated January 2014) applied to the claim Mr K had made. And 
that did cover loss of rent. 
However, DAS said it didnt believe this claim would have reasonable prospects of success 
and in any case the loss of rent clause  only applied where satisfactory references and 
guarantees had been  obtained for each tenant before the agreement started. As that wasnt 
the case here DAS didnt  agree this claim should be paid
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in October last year. In summary I said:
delay in progressing  the claim since June 2016
Ive reviewed whats happened since the final response DAS issued in June 2016. I dont 
think there was any delay in it appointing Mr Ks own solicitors and in agreeing to fund 
counsels opinion. And while  it did take some time for that opinion  to be provided I note DAS 
was proactively chasing the solicitors for this. 
Once the opinion was provided its not in dispute DAS should  have  done  more to follow 
matters up. But that doesnt appear to have prevented the solicitors  moving  forward with the 
eviction of the tenants which was ultimately successful. Taking  that into account I think  the 
compensation DAS has agreed to pay is enough  to recognise any inconvenience G was 
caused. 
rent arrears  
DAS has now accepted Gs policy does provide cover for rent arrears. And Im not clear why 
a claim to DAS for these  would in itself require  reasonable prospects of success; it does 
require that a claim for repossession has been  accepted but that seems to be the case here. 
However, regardless of that, for DAS to pay the rent arrears a number of conditions needs to 
be satisfied including  that you have obtained  a satisfactory reference for each tenant and 
each guarantor from a licensed  referencing service before the tenancy  started.  The policy  
goes on to say the reference must include:  written  references from a previous managing 
agent or landlord; an employer (or any other  financial source);  and a credit-history check  
(including the Enforcement of Judgments  Office, County Court  Judgments  and bankruptcy).
Mr K believes the tenants did supply a credit check as he was invoiced for that. But that 
doesnt appear to be something he has in his possession. In any case a credit check is only 
one part of what the policy requires for a satisfactory  reference. I havent seen anything  to 
show the other elements were obtained when the property was let. And I can understand 
why DAS would want this information to be obtained  as it mitigates the risk to it. As Mr K 
hasnt been able to provide it I dont think DAS has done anything wrong in saying  it wont  
pay for the rent arrears  at the property. 
The policy could nevertheless cover a legal  claim against the tenant for rent recovery.  But 
that doesnt appear to be the claim Mr K has made  in this case;  it appears  the tenants paid 
the agent who didnt pass the money  on. So Mr K wanted to pursue a claim  for the recovery  
of rental  payments from the lettings agent. However,  its a condition  of the policy  that for 
funding to be provided for a legal expenses claim it should have  reasonable prospects  of 
success. 
Ref: DRN45685493And for this claim DAS had counsels opinion which explained why that wasnt  the case for a 
claim against the lettings  agent. Ive seen a copy of that opinion  which  I think  is properly 
written and reasoned.  As a result  I think its one DAS was entitled to rely on. So I dont think 
it did anything wrong in deciding to withdraw  cover for the claim against the lettings agent. 
But if Mr K does now want to pursue a claim against  the tenants thats something he may 
want to discuss with DAS.  
other issues
Mr K wanted  cover  to pursue an appeal against the notice the local authority had issued G 
with. The policy does  say it will defend your legal  rights  if an event arising from letting  your 
property leads to you being prosecuted in a criminal court. However, in this case  it appears 
the local authority  had issued a planning  enforcement notice and it was the appeal against 
that he wanted DAS to fund. But as he wasnt being  prosecuted in a criminal court  I think  
DAS was right to say this isnt something his policy would  cover.  
Mr K also thinks  the policy should  have covered G for a claim in relation to damage caused 
to the property. The policy does say we will negotiate for your legal  rights  after an event 
which causes physical  damage to your property. So this is something the policy  would 
potentially cover. However,  it appears Mr K is in the process of claiming on Gs property 
insurance policy for this damage. And its not clear hes actually made a claim on his legal 
assistance policy at this stage. 
In any case DAS has said it would  normally expect someone to seek  reimbursement from 
their property insurers before taking  legal action for a claim like this. I dont  think  thats 
unreasonable as one of the conditions of the policy is that you must.take reasonable 
steps to keep any amount we have to pay as low as possible. But if Mr K does want  to 
pursue this claim more  formally then again thats something hell need to contact DAS about.  
DAS has also accepted it sent two emails that contained incorrectly addressed  letters. 
However, while I agree this shouldnt have happened I understand the letters were sent to 
the correct email address. So the problem  with the address hasnt meant  this information 
was sent to the wrong person. 
And while DAS has acknowledged  there was a delay in paying Mr Ks solicitors  its not clear  
what inconvenience that caused G. However,  I appreciate DAS does appear  to have 
provided confusing  information to G about  what the correct policy terms were during the 
course of the claim and following  the subsequent complaint Mr K made. I accept that will 
have caused G some unnecessary inconvenience.  But Ive also taken into account that DAS 
has already agreed  to pay G a total of £500.  Given that, I dont think  there are grounds to 
ask it to make a further payment  here.   
responses to my provisional  decision
DAS said it accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything  further  to add. Mr K 
asked for more time to respond and then provided some  detailed comments. Ive considered 
all of those points and summarise below what I feel are the key issues:  
The provisional decision said DAS were proactive in chasing solicitors for counsels 
opinion which suggests Mr Ks solicitors were  responsible for any delay here. Mr K said 
we should allow  his solicitors the opportunity to address these allegations  before 
concluding the complaint  against DAS; 
Ref: DRN45685494Mr K said DAS were wrong  to refuse  the claim for rent arrears  and the policy didnt 
require there to be reasonable prospects of success for a claim to be successful; 
He believed the requirement for satisfactory  references to be obtained had been  met. He 
said the lettings  agent had been  paid for obtaining  these and believed  the relevant 
documentation had been provided  to the local authority  following their visit to the 
property;
Mr K said the lettings agency was registered and its website set out the checks it would 
carry out. And a surveyor who was involved  with the rental of his property provided a 
statement. This said the lettings agent  had confirmed to him that refences had been 
taken and during  the meeting with the local authority he saw the agent show the council  
representatives documentation relating to these; 
Mr K believes theres sufficient evidence to show that satisfactory reference had been  
obtained and he didnt think it was fair to refuse the claim because he wasnt now able to 
provide these; 
Mr K said DAS should have provided cover in relation to the enforcement action  taken by 
the local authority.  He quoted policy terms which he said supported his view and said in 
the provisional decision Id referenced the wrong  terms; 
Mr K said he thought DAS should have assisted in his claim against his buildings  
insurers as the policy provided cover  for this and said hed raised  this with it in August 
2015;
And Mr K said the final response  to these  complaints was sent to an incorrect address 
which was a further breach of data protection rules in addition  to the ones DAS had 
accepted. He also said DAS hadnt  responded to complaints made in October 2018. 
Mr K also raised issues which related to a previous complaint to us (which weve previously 
told him had been  brought out of time). So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45685495delay in progressing  the claim since June 2016
I dont think I need  any input from Mr Ks solicitors  in order to reach a decision on this part of 
the complaint.  Ive not made any comment on whether there has been  delay by his solicitors  
and any issues about their conduct would  in any case be for the Legal  Ombudsman to 
consider. My role is to consider whether  DAS did anything wrong in dealing  with the claim 
Mr K made. As I explained in my provisional decision I think  there was some delay by DAS 
after it was provided  with a legal opinion  by the solicitors but I think the compensation DAS 
has already agreed  to pay does enough  to recognise any inconvenience  G was caused by 
this.
rent arrears  
As I said in my provisional decision the relevant policy (which I believe to be the one in force  
from January 2014)  does provide cover for rent arrears.  And I dont think a claim for these 
would require there to be reasonable prospects of success. But for DAS to pay the rent 
arrears the policy  terms in relation to satisfactory references need  to be met. And in this 
case its not in dispute  Mr K doesnt have the necessary references in his possession. 
I appreciate the lettings  agent may have said hed taken references and charged the tenants 
for obtaining these.  I also note the general information Mr K has provided from the lettings 
agency website  about what it would normally obtain.  But I dont think that changes  the fact 
Mr K doesnt  have clear  evidence to show what actually happened in this case. I understand 
due to ill health he didnt have any involvement  with the letting of the property and hes 
previously said the lettings agent  wasnt authorised to let the rooms. And while  I appreciate 
his surveyor saw some information being provided  to the local authority he doesnt have a 
copy of this. 
If the lettings  agent was able to give confirmation  of what information it had obtained but for 
some reason  wasnt able to physically provide it the position might  be different. But that isnt 
the case here. Theres no realistic prospect of any information being obtained from the agent  
about what checks were actually carried out. And neither Mr K or his surveyor have anything  
to show that the checks that were carried out met the requirements of his policy.  So it 
remains my view that DAS hasnt done  anything wrong in declining  to pay the claim Mr K 
made for rent arrears.  
enforcement action
Mr K argues  this claim should be covered and has quoted from a Commercial  Legal 
Protection Club Policy  which  he believes applies  here. But I dont agree it does. That policy  
is dated 2008 which is six years prior to the events giving rise to his claim.  It isnt referenced 
in the relevant policy schedule. And DAS has provided us with policy  documentation  it says 
applied from January 2014 and was itself superseded  by new wording in January  2015. 
Mr Ks policy  renewed in September 2014.  So its the January 2014 wording which would 
apply here as the events giving rise to his claim took place in the 12 months  after the policy  
renewed in September 2014.  
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision I dont think this policy  covers  the 
claim Mr K wanted to make. So I dont think DAS treated him unfairly  in declining to provide 
assistance with it. 
Ref: DRN45685496buildings insurance  claim
As I said in my provisional decision negotiating  your legal rights  after an event  which 
causes physical damage to property is potentially  something the policy  would cover. Mr K 
told us he told DAS about his damages claim in August 2015. But hes also said at that point 
his buildings insurer was still considering  the claim hed made. As I said in my provisional  
decision I dont think its unreasonable he should  pursue that claim before  DAS became 
involved. And the concerns Mr K now has about this issue  appear to have arisen more 
recently. So I think thats something  hell need  to contact DAS about to make a new claim - 
and if hes unhappy  with any decision it reaches thats something which could form part of a 
fresh complaint. 
other issues
Mr K says complaint points raised in October 2018 havent been  addressed  by DAS. 
However, those matters do appear  to have been responded to by DAS in the final response 
letter it sent the following month. But I agree that letter appears to have been incorrectly 
addressed to his rental property rather than his personal address. However, it remains my 
view that the £500  DAS has already agreed to pay is sufficient to recognise any 
inconvenience caused to G by this and the other things DAS got wrong. 
In his response Mr K has gone into some detail about matters which  relate to his other 
complaint which  weve  said has been  brought to us too late. Those points include the time 
taken for DAS to agree the appointment of his own solicitors. Any concerns about those 
issues will need to be raised by Mr K with the investigator who dealt with the previous 
complaint. I also think the concerns hes raised about whether he had the right to appoint  his 
own solicitor earlier relate  to those same  complaint  points. So the same applies here and 
those arent  issues Im considering in this decision.  
Mr K has also suggested we should  look at the actions of the panel solicitor DAS referred 
the matter to. He argues DAS are responsible for their actions. I understand the point hes 
making but the issue here is what activities our rules  allow us to consider. Those are set out 
in our rules (the DISP rules - which I know Mr K is aware of). In this case  Mr Ks concerns 
are about  what solicitors did when acting in their legal capacity. Thats not an activity our 
rules cover. So it isnt something we can consider. As Mr K has been  advised if hes 
unhappy with the actions  of the panel solicitors thats something which would need to be 
raised with the Legal Ombudsman.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  
Company Limited  has already done  enough  to put things right. It will need to pay G £500 if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K (on behalf  
of G) to accept or reject  my decision  before 15 February 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4568549