K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that First Union  Mortgages  Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S was sold the PPI in 2007 at the same time as arranging the mortgage.
This was a single premium PPI policy. So the cost (£1,655.09) was added to the amount 
borrowed and repaid over the 20 year term of the mortgage.
First Union said that it thought this service  should  not consider Mr Ss complaint, as it was 
submitted too late. An ombudsman at this service considered this point,  and decided  that the 
complaint was submitted within the time limits that apply. An adjudicator then went on to look 
at the merits of the complaint, and considered  that it should be upheld.  First Union disagree 
with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain  why.
Mr S says he thought  he had to have the PPI in order for his mortgage  application to be 
successful. Looking at the paperwork and the call notes from 2007, it seems  to me that the 
policy was most likely presented as optional. The sale happened a long time ago and so it 
wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection  of the sale has faded. Overall, given the available 
evidence, I think that Mr S probably  decided to buy the policy,  knowing that he didnt have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
First Union didnt advise  Mr S to take out the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr S with sufficient information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
As our adjudicator has pointed out, the terms of the policy make it more  difficult  for a self-
employed person  to make an unemployment  claim than it would be for an employed person  
who had been  made redundant.
This information would  have  been  important to Mr S as, at the time of the sale,  he was both 
employed and self employed  and his income  was derived almost equally  between his two 
jobs.
First Union has said that Mr S would still have been able to benefit  from the policy if he had 
been made redundant from his employed  position and that, in that instance, as he would 
have lost 49% of his income, he would still have  been able to benefit as the policy  would 
have paid out 49% of the monthly benefit.  However, I dont believe that the policy would 
have paid out at all if Mr S had been made redundant  from his employed position.  Thats  
because, in order to make a successful claim for unemployment, a policyholder  had to be 
Ref: DRN43521402registered as unemployed.  But if Mr S had lost his employed position, he still wouldnt have 
been unemployed because he had his other, self-employed job. The only time Mr S would 
have been able to claim for unemployment  is if he had lost both of his jobs at the same  time 
 which  was very unlikely to happen.  And thats in addition to the issue of the self-
employment terms being onerous as explained by our adjudicator.
I dont think that First Union took sufficient steps to highlight the unemployment  terms to Mr 
S. If it had, given his circumstances, I dont think he would have bought the policy. This is 
because he would have  realised that hed be paying for a policy  that he couldnt  fully benefit 
from. This means that Mr S is worse  off as a result  of what First Union did wrong, so it needs 
to put things right.
 
There is also another reason why I think that the PPI was mis-sold. Although  I think that Mr 
S would have been aware of the cost of the single premium, I cant see that it was ever 
explained to him that, although the policy only covered the mortgage  for two years, hed be 
paying interest on the single premium amount over the full 20 year term of the policy. 
However, not highlighting the unemployment terms sufficiently is enough of a reason on its 
own for me to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
putting things right
Mr S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his mortgage is bigger than it shouldve  been. 
And hes been paying more than he shouldve each month. So Mr S needs to get back  the 
extra hes paid. 
Mr S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr S needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, First Union should:
 Work out and pay Mr S the difference between  what  he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
 Work out and pay Mr S the difference between  what  it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid from when he paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, First Union can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires First Union to deduct tax from this interest. First Union 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require First Union Mortgages Limited to 
pay compensation as detailed  above.
Ref: DRN43521403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4352140