K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  The evidence 
on file suggests  the PPI was taken out in 2005  some  years after the mortgage began. 
Miss H says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Miss H says she signed an application  form for the PPI in a meeting but that she 
shouldve been given time to take the terms home to read and digest rather  than feeling 
obliged to take the PPI there  and then. Miss H also says she wasnt told she could take 
the insurance out elsewhere. As I dont know what happened during the sale Ive relied 
on the paperwork available  from the sale to help me decide  whats  likely to have 
happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Hs signed  PPI application form. Some  of her personal details 
have been entered on the form including her address and the monthly benefit required.  
This PPI policy was taken  out a number of years after the mortgage  started   so I think 
its likely  Miss H knew it wasnt a requirement  of the lending, or that she had to have it. 
Theres also nothing on the PPI application to suggest the PPI was compulsory. Miss H 
signed the form, so I think its likely to reflect what she wanted. Taking all of this into 
account I think its more likely  NatWest  made  it clear  that Miss H didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss H got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Miss H feels  strongly that she wasnt given  the time to read the terms and conditions  of 
the PPI to allow her to properly  evaluate the product. I agree its possible the information 
NatWest gave Miss H during the meeting about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But for the reasons Ive given above  I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
I want to assure Miss H that Ive thought carefully about everything she has said.  But these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss H paid on her PPI  and whether NatWest  
treated her unfairly. 
Ref: DRN40056222NatWest has told us that the commission  for Miss Hs PPI was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss Hs commission was less than half the cost 
of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont  think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Miss H back  any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4005622