K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain TenetConnect Services Limited wrongly advised them to invest a 
very large  percentage  of their money in unsuitably risky bonds. They  say the advisor  
shouldve recommended they pay off their mortgage, make payments into their pensions  and 
keep a bigger  emergency fund.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 25 January 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
TenetConnect did not respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision I am satisfied that this complaint  should  be upheld and with the compensation I 
proposed in that decision.
I instruct  TenetConnect to pay compensation by comparing the returns  Mr and Mrs C got on 
half of their £200,000  investment in the Sterling bond with what  they might  have got via a 
more suitably low risk investment. To do this it should use the low risk formula 
recommended by this service known as 50/50. That is, an equal  combination  of the returns  
shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity  and those shown  by the 
FTSE Private Investors Total  Income  Return Index. 
In making this calculation  it should take into account  a fair percentage (half) of any 
withdrawals taken during  the time the investment was maintained  and from the date that 
these were made. If this comparison  shows a loss,  it should add 8% interest to this figure 
from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint (assuming it was 
surrendered).
I also instruct TenetConnect to also pay compensation, using  the same  redress formula,  on 
the £45,000 Mr and Mrs C invested in their other  bond.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TenetConnect Services Limited  to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44607652Provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about  the advice given by TenetConnect Services Limited to invest  a 
very large percentage of their money in unsuitably risky Sterling Investment bonds.  They  also say that 
the advisor shouldve recommended paying off their mortgage, making large  payments into their 
pension funds  and keeping a bigger  emergency fund.
background
TenetConnect originally objected to this service  considering  this complaint,  saying it had been brought 
beyond the permissible time limits. An adjudicator did not agree  and an ombudsman subsequently 
issued a jurisdiction decision  explained  why he was satisfied this complaint was one we could 
consider.
The adjudicator then outlined why she felt the complaint should be upheld,  given the following:
Mr and Mrs C were both earning reasonable salaries,  had two children and an outstanding  mortgage.  
They had first been  advised  to invest £15,000 in a Sterling investment bond in June  2005 (within  the 
property and protected  profits funds). In 2006, as a result of a large inheritance, they had nearly 
£300,000 in savings  within  deposit  accounts.
The adviser  recorded that their attitude  to risk was fairly  cautious to moderate and that they were  
happy to invest a total of £245,000 of which £45,000 should be easily available free of early 
withdrawal charges for any one-off withdrawals.
He recommended investing £200,000 in a new Sterling bond, spread  between  a variety of property 
and equity-based funds and another  £45,000 in a bond split equally between a property fund and a 
multi-manager protected profits fund (which  offered some protection against falls in value).
 
The adjudicator noted that the risk choices  listed in the key document  were absolute  security, cautious 
investor-minimal risk, and fairly cautious-modest  risk, medium risk, more  adventurous or adventurous.  
She felt the classification recorded for Mr and Mrs C did not match any of these choices precisely  but 
was similar  to fairly cautious-modest risk.  This was described as for the investor  where there may 
be some fluctuation in value and growth. However,  these would be limited to guarantees built into the 
investment.
She noted that the multimanager protected profits fund was made up of more than 60% in equities  
while the property fund had over 85% invested in property. The funds selected for the £200,000 also 
appeared to have a large amount invested in property and equity  investments, in her view.
She did not believe that Mr and Mrs C would have wanted  to risk of losing a substantial  portion of her 
inheritance, particularly  as they were relatively inexperienced investors. As a result, she was not 
convinced that the risks posed  by the overall  mix of funds  was within the risk levels they would have 
been prepared to accept if fully explained.
Overall, she felt they should have been recommended  a more cautious mix of funds  and that 
TenetConnect should pay compensation  accordingly.  She said it should compare the performance of 
both bonds with a low risk comparator recommended by this service  i.e. an equal combination of the 
returns shown by the FTSE  UK Private Investors Income Total  Return  Index along  with the average  
rate from the Bank of Englands fixed -rate bonds  of 12 to 17 months  maturity.
TenetConnect did not agree,  and said:
Ref: DRN44607653It still does not agree that this complaint  is within  our jurisdiction and wants this issue to be 
revisited
The adjudicator did not take account of the full description of Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk 
which was fairly cautious to moderate not "fairly cautious - modest risk" (modest  risk being  a 
description of fairly  cautious)
Therefore the relevant  description was: We examined your attitude  to risk and you described 
your risk profile to be fairly cautious to moderate. This means that you are willing  to see some 
fluctuation in capital but expect growth above  inflation over the medium  to long term;  ideally  
five years or more
On this basis it considers that the recommended  investments were appropriate.  Further, it 
believes that these investments were similar to the proposed redress formula in level of risk 
so any compensation would  be unfair 
my provisional  findings
Ive firstly considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this is a complaint 
we can consider.  
It is true that a business can continue to raise jurisdiction objections after an ombudsman has made  a 
decision that we can consider a particular complaint. But the purpose of this rule is to ensure that a 
business can bring, and have considered, any new arguments or evidence that affects the 
jurisdictional status  of a complaint right up the point a final decision is made. It is not designed simply 
to give a business  another  bite of the cherry in the hope that a different ombudsman  might reach a 
different decision based on the same evidence.
In this case TenetConnect has raised no new jurisdiction arguments and I therefore  see no good 
reason to reconsider  this issue.
Ive therefore considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
 
Different businesses use different descriptors  or phrases  when categorising clients  likely attitudes to 
risk as well as when asserting the general risk levels posed by particular investments.  It is not 
surprising therefore  that clients may not always necessarily understand  the exact meaning of a 
particular descriptor or the difference  between quite  two similar ones.  So apart from No Risk and 
High Risk  I dont think one can rely entirely  on the alleged correct meaning of a word or phrase 
when deciding  upon a clients most likely  risk level, or whether the investment was unsuitably  risky.
Instead, I and this service,  seek  to assess what a clients most likely attitude  to risk was taking 
account of their background, circumstances, objectives and what was said at the time and since.  We 
then use our judgement  to assess whether the recommended product  was, more likely than not, 
compatible with this likely attitude  to risk. Where  a client has little investment  knowledge or 
experience, it is also crucial to consider what the expert  advisor ought to have  recommended even 
where a client  might  have indicated they were happy with a particular risk category. In other words, it 
was for the advisor  to explain the implications of a particular  risk classification  even when a client 
expresses a preference for it.
In this case I am satisfied  that the advisors overall recommendation was not suitable for Mr and Mrs 
C, and - if properly advised   they would  not have invested  these amounts in these bonds.
Firstly, I do think the advisor should have seriously  outlined the potential  advantages  of paying off 
their mortgage, particularly  given the interest rates at the time, as well as putting  a modest lump sum 
in their pensions. Given the very large  sum inherited, this would  have been a one-off opportunity to do 
Ref: DRN44607654something which would both make medium  and long-term sense  as part of an overall package of 
recommendations.
However, I cannot safely say that they would necessarily  have done either of these things, even if 
advised to, so this does  not form part of my proposed  compensation.
Overall, taking account of Mr and Mrs Cs ages, family situation, financial background and likely 
objectives, I doubt  they would have wanted to take more  than a modest risk with this one-off windfall 
i.e. they would  not have wanted to put Mrs Cs inheritance at risk of falling substantially in value. And I 
am not persuaded, from the evidence  Ive seen, that the advisor fully explored their actual desire  to 
take a significant risk with this money. While his record offers some indication  of their potential 
attitude I think  it is far from conclusive.
If properly  advised about the meaning and significance of the various risk descriptors, I am satisfied  
on the balance of probabilities   that Mr and Mrs C would not have chosen to expose anything  more 
than a modest percentage of their £245,000 in funds posing  more than a low risk. 
Broadly- speaking, I think they should have  been  advised to invest around 60% of their money in 
clearly low risk products  (£145,000) with no more than another £100,000  in higher risk funds.
Looking at the fund mix in their £200,000-invested Sterling bond (at the time of advice),  I am satisfied 
that this posed more  than a low risk to their money given the high concentration in property and 
equities. I therefore  think  the advisor should have only recommended they invest £100,000  in this 
bond and its mix.
I therefore  intend  to instruct it to pay compensation by comparing the returns  they got on half of the 
money they invested in it with what they might have got via a more suitable low risk investment. To do 
this it should use the low risk formula  recommended by this service  known as 50/50 which  was 
outlined by the adjudicator  in her recent view. I will set this out in detail  in my final decision.
In making this calculation it should take into account a fair percentage (half) of any withdrawals taking 
during the investment was maintained  and from the date any were made. It should  then add 8% 
interest to the result loss figure, assuming there is one.
I also do not think  the £45,000 was invested in a bond with a suitable  mix of funds at the time of 
advice. I recognise  that half of this money went into a protected  fund guaranteeing 80% of the capital 
invested. But the other half went into a property fund,  an asset which  is subject to significant  volatility 
and other  specific risks. In my view this made the overall bond unsuitable both from a risk point of 
view and as a product suitable for instant access of funds  (something  Mr and Mrs C specifically  
wanted). 
I therefore  intend  to instruct it to also pay compensation using the same redress formula,  and on all 
the money Mr and Mrs C invested  in this bond.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct TenetConnect to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4460765