K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly closed his bank accounts 
and froze his funds,  without giving him notice.
background
Mr O had a current account  and a savings account with Barclays. On 11 September 2018,  
Barclays blocked and closed Mr O's accounts,  without  giving  him notice. It wrote  to him on 
the same  day, confirming  it was closing his accounts.
Mr O complained, saying he was unhappy that Barclays had closed his accounts without 
giving any notice or a reason. And that Barclays' refusal to release his funds  was causing 
him financial losses as well as distress and inconvenience. Mr O also said Barclays  was 
discriminating against him and that it was causing unnecessary  delays in communicating 
with him.
Mr O wants Barclays  to explain why it took those actions. And to compensate him for losses  
he sustained as a result, and for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced.
Barclays accepted  that it should've given Mr O 62 days' notice of the account closure and 
awarded him £200 for any distress  and inconvenience he experienced as a result. It said it 
would release the funds it held for Mr O on receipt  of a 'QMS swift message'  from the bank 
that had sent the funds to him.
Mr O rejected Barclays' outcome and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Barclays was entitled to close Mr O's account, but that it hadn't 
acted in line with its terms of business when  it did so. She said it should have given Mr O 
more notice but thought  that Barclays had done enough to put this right by offering Mr O 
£200 in compensation.
She thought  that Barclays shouldn't have held onto Mr O's funds for as long as it did. And 
said Barclays should pay Mr O 8% interest  from the date he provided proof of funds.
Mr O responded saying he had also lost out on rental income  as he was unable to complete  
renovations on his buy-to-let property, without  access to his funds. But our investigator said 
she hadn't seen  enough  evidence to demonstrate that was the case.
Unhappy with the investigator's outcome,  Mr O asked for his case  to be reviewed afresh  by 
an ombudsman.
On 21 January 2020, I issued a provisional  decision. In it, I said:
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what's  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr O's complaint, I'm 
minded to reach the same conclusion to that of our investigator, but for different reasons. 
And I want to expand on some of the issues Mr O has raised.
Account closure
Ref: DRN47429512Just as a customer may close  an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account,  it must do so in a way which  complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
A bank  doesn't always have to give reasons for its decision to close an account. Having 
considered the information Barclays has provided, I'm satisfied it acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of Mr O's account  when it declined to give Mr O a reason for its 
decision.
However, Barclays has accepted that it wasn't right to close  Mr O's account without giving 
him notice.  It agrees  it should  have given  him 62 days' notice,  before  it closed  the account. 
So what  is left for me to consider  is the impact the instant closure had on Mr O, and whether 
or not Barclays has done enough to put things right.
Mr O has provided  us with a copy of his credit file, from which I can see that he held another  
current account with another  bank. I don't doubt Mr O would have experienced distress  and 
inconvenience when  Barclays  closed his account  immediately. But that distress  and 
inconvenience was minimised by Mr O having  access to another  account with a different 
bank, as he would still have been able to make and receive payments.
Barclays has offered to pay Mr O £200 in compensation in relation to his complaint, part of 
which is attributable  to the lack of notice. And in doing so, I think  Barclays  has done enough 
to put things right here.
Access to funds
Before a bank  releases  funds held in a customer's  account, it's entitled to carry out checks to 
ensure it's complying  with its legal and regulatory  obligations. And banks will follow  their 
internal procedures before they release funds. So Barclays was entitled to request 
information from Mr O, before releasing his money.
With that said, I would expect Barclays to request whatever information it needs,  complete 
its review and release  the funds in a reasonable time. So I've considered the evidence  
provided to me by both parties  to see if Barclays did so.
Barclays closed Mr O's account on 11 September 2018 and sent him a letter confirming the 
position on the same day. Barclays asked Mr O to provide proof the funds in his account 
belonged to him, before it would release  them. Mr O replied on 14 September  2018,  
explaining the origin of the funds  and attaching  accompanying documents.
Barclays completed its review of the information  provided by Mr O on 23 October  2018.  It 
wanted more information before it would release Mr O's funds though,  and asked Mr O to 
provide a 'QMS swift message' from the remitting bank. Mr O wasn't  able to get a QMS swift 
message and Barclays ultimately agreed  to release the funds  without it. It did so on 18 
December 2018.  Mr O withdrew the funds nine days later.
When Barclays released Mr O's funds, it did so based on the information  it had reviewed on 
23 October 2018. And without receiving the further  information it had requested.  So it seems 
to me that it could  have released  Mr O's money on 23 October 2018, 56 days before it did 
so.
With that in mind, I've considered what Barclays should do to put things  right for
Ref: DRN47429513Mr O. Mr O told our investigator  he had to delay renting an investment property,  because  he 
couldn't afford to pay for necessary renovations while  Barclays  were holding  his funds. And 
that he missed out on three months' rental income as a result.
I've looked  at the evidence Mr O has provided  relating to this. And I'm grateful to him for 
taking the time to do so. But, having thought about  the full extent of the situation, I'm not 
going to ask Barclays to reimburse  the rental income Mr O says he lost out on. I'll explain 
why.
Mr O told us he intended to complete the renovation works in early September 2018, in order  
that the property  could  be on the market by the third week of September.
For the reasons  I've said above, Barclays was entitled to block Mr O's account from 11 
September 2018 to 23 October  2018.  The error  it made was in holding onto his money from 
23 October 2018 until 18 December 2018.  That being the case, Mr O would  have had to 
delay his renovation works, even if Barclays had released his money on 23 October  2018.
Because the delay to the renovations was not attributable  to an error  made  by Barclays,  I 
can't reasonably ask it to pay for any losses Mr O incurred  as a result.
Mr O might say that Barclays should compensate him for losses  he incurred between 23 
October 2018 and 18 December  2018.  But in order to make  such an award,  I'd need to see 
evidence of the steps Mr O took to mitigate  his losses. For example,
Mr O might have let the property in its existing state and completed the renovations  later. Or 
he might  have tried to borrow money  to cover his costs, pending Barclays returning  his 
funds.
But I haven't seen anything  to demonstrate  the steps Mr O took to mitigate his loss. Nor 
have I seen evidence  of when Mr O re-commenced the renovation  works  and when  he 
successfully rented the property. And I can't  reasonably hold Barclays  responsible for Mr O's 
claimed losses without  such  evidence.
Discrimination
I appreciate Mr O thinks Barclays discriminated  against him when it took the action it did. 
And I don't underestimate his strength of feeling  about this matter.  But I haven't found 
anything to indicate that this was the reason  Mr O's account was closed, or the reason 
Barclays took any other actions.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to. It can't 
unfairly discriminate  against a customer. But it can say it no longer wishes to do business  
with individuals.  That's because it has the commercial  freedom  to decide who it wants  to 
contract with.
And I'm satisfied that Barclays has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it 
decided to close Mr O's accounts.  I haven't seen  any evidence  of discrimination, so I can't 
fairly and reasonably say it's done  anything wrong.
Distress and inconvenience
Ref: DRN47429514I accept Mr O would have  experienced  a level of distress and inconvenience while he waited 
for Barclays to release  his funds. Mr O said there were  delays  in communicating with him 
and I can understand  that not being able to access his funds would have been distressing.
But again,  I can't reasonably ask Barclays to compensate Mr O for distress suffered, unless 
it's done something wrong. It seems  that the block itself would have caused Mr O the most  
trouble and upset,  and not the delay from 23 October 2018  to 18 December 2018.
That being  the case, I think Barclays has done enough to compensate Mr O for any trouble 
and upset he experienced as a result of its delays, by offering to pay him £200.
Also I agree with our investigator  that Barclays should pay also Mr O 8% simple interest to 
compensate him for the time he went without access to his funds, due to Barclays' delays. 
I.e. from 23 October 2018 to 18 December 2018.
I invited both Mr O and Barclays to provide any further submissions or evidence by 4 
February 2020. Barclays replied saying  it accepted  that it should pay interest at 8% but 
added no further  comments. And Mr O didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party  had anything further to add to the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to alter it.
Barclays was entitled to close Mr Os account, but it has accepted it should have given more 
notice and has offered  to pay Mr O £200 in compensation  to put things  right. In doing  so, I 
think Barclays has done enough, so Barclays should pay Mr O the £200.
And Im satisfied that Barclays complied with the terms and conditions  of Mr Os account and 
with its legal and regulatory obligations, when it blocked Mr Os account. But I think  it should  
have released  the funds  sooner, so it should  pay Mr O simple interest at a rate of 8% for the 
period of the delay.
Im not satisfied that Mr O should be compensated beyond the above measures though,  for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision.  And I havent  seen  anything  to suggest 
Barclays actions were  motivated by discrimination.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've explained, my final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC must pay 
Mr O:
£200 to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience it caused him; and
simple interest at a rate of 8%* on the funds they held for him. The interest should be 
paid in respect of the period between 23 October 2018 and 18 December 2018.
*If Barclays  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to withhold  
income tax from those parts of the award  constituting the 8% interest, it should tell Mr O how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN47429515Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4742951