K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained because  Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) refused to process a 
chargeback on their account.  
background
Mr and Mrs B have  an account with Lloyds.  They  used this to purchase  non-refundable  
airline tickets for a family  trip, which they booked  through an agent Ill refer to as T, to fly 
with an airline which  Ill refer to as A.
A travel visa was required for this trip. Before booking, Mr and Mrs B checked the Embassy 
website for visa processing  times,  which said applications would be processed within four 
months. The flights booked were for a date more than four months  away.  However, a few 
days after booking, the visa processing timeframe  was extended  to six months,  meaning  
Mr and Mrs B couldnt successfully apply for their visas in time to be able to travel on the 
dates theyd booked.
Mr B immediately contacted T, who then contacted someone at A. T then emailed  Mr B to 
advise that a flight date change was permitted, subject to an extra  charge per ticket, but that 
in case of cancellation these were non-refundable tickets.
Mr B immediately contacted Lloyds  and asked them to raise a chargeback  request against  T, 
saying his family were  unable to take the flights due to circumstances beyond their control. 
Lloyds said they wouldnt process this. When Lloyds  refused, he complained to them.
Refusing to uphold the complaint, Lloyds explained  their actions are governed by rules set 
by VISA  Europe  (VISA),  who operate the chargeback scheme.  They referred to the 
merchants (T) terms and conditions. They explained the VISA  regulations say a travel and 
entertainment (T&E) transaction isnt covered by the scheme,  so they had no rights under 
the scheme to dispute the transaction.  Lloyds wouldnt process Mr and Mrs Bs chargeback 
claim as they had no grounds  to believe it would be successful.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with this, and brought their complaint to us. Mr B explained why 
he thought Lloyds should submit a chargeback claim  he fulfilled his obligations to check  
visa requirements before  booking. Mr B says, based  on his analysis of A and Ts terms, he 
thinks A is required to give a refund. And on this basis, he thinks  this shows  a chargeback 
request would have  a good chance of success, and Lloyds  should have made a claim.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but didnt think  Lloyds had acted unfairly. 
She explained we could  only look at whether  Lloyds had acted unfairly in refusing to process 
the chargeback  claim  and not how A or T treated Mr and Mrs Bs claim,  as we dont have 
any power to look into their actions. She thought the purchase of flights fell into the T&E 
category, and as this type of transaction  isnt covered by the VISA  chargeback rules, Lloyds 
didnt act unfairly by refusing to submit  a chargeback claim. Mr B was unhappy with this 
outcome, and asked  an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48593072I can appreciate how upsetting  its been  for Mr and Mrs B to lose a significant  amount of 
money after being unable to use the flights they booked.  But, I agree with our investigators 
conclusions, and dont  think  Lloyds have acted unfairly. I understand Mr and Mrs B feel very 
strongly about this matter,  and appreciate this will come as a disappointment  to them,  but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
It might be helpful if I explain what a chargeback scheme is, and how it works. A chargeback 
is where a consumer disputes a transaction and asks the card provider  Lloyds  to claim 
the money back from the bank account of the business that provided the goods. A 
chargeback isnt a legal right, but is a voluntary scheme operated  by some card providers, 
including VISA. A bank doesnt  have  to raise a chargeback if it looks clear  to them that the 
claim has little chance  of being successful.
So here, I must start by considering this complaint within the scope of the chargeback 
scheme operated  by VISA.  VISAs chargeback  rules  set out circumstances where  a 
chargeback request is likely to be successful. So, Ive looked  at their Core  Rules  and 
Product and Service Rules, updated  as at 13 October 2018,  as these were in place  when 
Mr and Mrs B bought their tickets.
Mr B told us that he tried to formally  cancel  the tickets, both with T and A, but received no 
response. He says that, in effect, T and A essentially forced him into not using the tickets, 
without them being cancelled. So, Ive considered two scenarios when looking at these rules  
 that Mr and Mrs B cancelled their airline tickets,  and also that they didnt cancel them,  but 
were instead  unable to use them. Ill deal with cancellation  first.
Chapter 11.10.8.1  Dispute Condition 13.7: Cancelled Merchandise/Services  Dispute 
Reasons covers reasons where a chargeback claim  called  a Dispute in the rules  can 
be raised in the event  of a cancellation.  It states:
An Issuer [here  Lloyds] may initiate a Dispute under  Dispute Condition  13.7: 
Cancelled Merchandise/Services for the following  reason:
oThe Cardholder cancelled or returned merchandise,  cancelled  services, 
cancelled a timeshare  Transaction, or cancelled a Guaranteed Reservation
Chapter 11.10.8.2  Dispute Condition 13.7: Cancelled Merchandise/Services  Dispute 
Rights goes on to state, amongst other things:
The Dispute applies if the Cardholder cancelled a Transaction  related to an off-
premises, distance selling  contractwithin 14 days.
However, it goes on to say:
The cancellation period for off-premises,  distance selling  does not apply to contracts 
for goods or services where  any of the following apply:
oThe Transaction is a T&E Transaction
Ref: DRN48593073The Glossary attached to the rules defines T & E as follows:
Travel and entertainment. All of the following Merchants and Merchant segments:
oAirlines
oTravel Agencies
The rules  clearly allow a chargeback  where  the customer  has cancelled  a purchase,  and 
where the purchase was made  off-premises   such as online. But, it doesnt allow  certain 
types of off-premises  transactions,  and purchasing  airline  tickets  is one such  type. So, 
applying these VISA rules, if Mr and Mrs B had cancelled these tickets, their request for a 
chargeback would almost  certainly not be successful.
Ill now consider if the tickets werent  cancelled, but instead were effectively kept and not 
used. Here, the VISA rules do not contain  any guidance on whether a chargeback  claim 
should be considered. So, as the VISA rules are silent on this matter, there would be no 
grounds to submit a chargeback claim here either.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  would have been  aware of how the rules applied to either of the 
above scenarios  when  they received Mr and Mrs Bs request for a chargeback. They  would 
have realised the VISA rules didnt allow for a successful chargeback claim in these 
circumstances.
Finally, I want  to address  something that Mr B has said in his complaint to us that he feels is 
the key part of his complaint - T and As terms and conditions. Ts terms, at section  16, deal 
with what happens  if a customer cancels a booking.  It says most airline  tickets  paid for in 
advance are not refundable, but goes on to say it will arrange to present cancelled tickets  to 
the airline to assess eligibility for a possible refund in accordance  with the relevant 
airlineterms and conditions.
As general  conditions of carriage say they may give a full credit,  in cancellation  cases  
beyond the control  of the customer.  The relevant  parts state if all or part of the fare is non-
refundable - which here, it is  they will give a credit  for the non-refundable part of the fare, 
to use for future travel on airline  A.
Mr Bs says, because he asked for a refund from T, they should then pass  this request to A. 
And, because A states it will issue a credit in cases beyond the control of the customer, Mr B 
thinks this creates a situation where T is likely  to succeed  if it tries to get money  back  from A. 
For this reason, he thinks Lloyds should  have submitted a chargeback claim, because based 
on the above it is likely to have been successful.
However, I dont agree  with Mr Bs view on this point. Mr B has provided evidence  showing 
that A responded to T in the days after Mr and Mrs B booked their tickets,  where  A says it 
will allow a ticket date change, for a fee, but that the tickets were  non-refundable  if 
cancelled. So, this suggests T has complied with its terms  it made contact with A to 
enquire about cancellation  or refund, and provided  As answer to Mr B.
Even if this doesnt show T complied with its terms, Ive seen that As terms say it will give a 
credit to the customer,  not it will refund  a sum to the agent. So, this still doesnt create a 
situation where Lloyds can submit  a claim against  T under the chargeback scheme   it 
suggests T isnt able to recover any funds from A, so even if the T&E restriction  didnt apply, 
there are no grounds on which T can make a successful chargeback  claim.
Ref: DRN48593074Based on all of the above, I agree there  was no likelihood of VISA  accepting a chargeback  
request, as it appears unlikely it would have succeeded. So I dont think Lloyds have acted 
unfairly in deciding not to submit Mr and Mrs Bs chargeback claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs B think A, in particular,  hasnt dealt with their refund claim correctly, 
but this isnt something we can consider. We can only consider if Lloyds acted unfairly  in not 
submitting a chargeback claim, and for all of the above reasons I have concluded they didnt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4859307