K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has declined a 
claim theyve  made under  their home insurance policy.
background
In mid-2016, Mr and Mrs Gs neighbours property  had a water leak. It caused damage to the 
retaining boundary  wall they shared  at the front of their properties. Mr and Mrs G made  a 
claim to Halifax  to have the wall repaired.   
Mr and Mrs G said that, in order  to settle  their claim,  they want the wall to be repaired in 
such a way that it reflects how it looked  and stood before the leak.  Halifax sent an engineer 
out to consider the condition of the wall. He reported back that the wall was in a poor 
condition. The engineer said the pier in the wall would not be covered under an insurance 
claim because  it showed  signs of gradual deterioration due to wear and tear, as opposed to 
the more sudden wear  and tear hed expect to see as a result of an escape of water.  The 
original engineer also said the wall itself showed signs of weathering over time. 
Based on the original  engineers report,  Halifax declined  their claim. It said while  there had 
been a leak; it considered  the wall was also damaged by a gradually operating cause.  
Mr and Mrs Gs policy didnt provide cover for this, so Halifax  wouldnt be repairing the wall. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with this, but also remained concerned about the condition of 
the wall, and particularly  about the central  pier. They  arranged  for some remedial works to 
be completed, at their own cost. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted  Halifax  again  when their neighbours retaining boundary wall was 
repaired. Halifax subsequently sent another engineer out to inspect the wall. The report 
produced this time came back with a different  finding. It said that it might  be possible to 
complete some remedial  works to the wall without  rebuilding it.
In July 2018, Halifax issued its final response letter. It said, in order  to settle the claim, it 
proposed to stabilise  and repair the retaining  boundary wall rather  than rebuilding it as 
Mr and Mrs G had hoped.  Halifax also said it was making this decision on the advice of the 
engineers. Halifax  said if Mr and Mrs G werent  satisfied with this response,  then they could 
arrange for their own engineer to inspect  the wall  but they may incur some  costs if they 
decided to do this.
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy with this. They felt the retaining  boundary  wall ought  to be 
rebuild so it was back in the position  it was in was before the leak  that was no fault of their 
own  caused  damage.  And they consider their insurer should be responsible  for putting the 
wall back  in the same position  as before the leak.
One of our investigators  considered this complaint. And they said they thought Halifaxs  offer 
to repair  the wall was a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. As Mr and Mrs G 
didnt agree, this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs G have given us a significant  
Ref: DRN48053542amount of information,  and I realise  that they feel strongly about the situation they find 
themselves in. Ive considered all of this when  reaching my decision,  but Ive only focused on 
those points I consider  most relevant to their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G have raised concerns  about some of the comments in the correspondence 
theyre received  from Halifax.  I realise there have been some comments  that Mr and Mrs G 
dont agree with  in particular the comments about  the wall being  monitored. Mr and Mrs G 
say this isnt true; the wall has only been inspected by the engineers, not regularly 
monitored. They have  expressed some concern about the first engineer and his findings, 
and are unhappy with Halifaxs decision to originally  decline the claim. 
I realise this matter has been ongoing for some time, and Mr and Mrs G are upset this matter  
hasnt been resolved. Halifax offered £100 compensation in recognition of the worry and 
confusion caused  by sending so many  people to their property to inspect  the wall. I realise 
that there  have been a number of people involved in assessing the wall. However, claims of 
this nature can sometimes be complex  and have a number of different people  involved. I 
dont think there is enough information for me to say that Halifax hasnt acted correctly  in its 
handling of the claim.  Therefore, I wont be recommending this payment is increased.
At the heart  of this dispute is to what extent  if any  repairs need to be carried to the 
retaining boundary  wall. While theres been some disagreement in the past about the 
condition of the wall, its now accepted  by all sides that the wall is in need of some  form of 
repair. The outstanding issue to be decided is how that wall should  be repaired as 
Mr and Mrs G would prefer for it to be rebuilt,  and they say they were told by an engineer  
that the wall could be rebuilt.  Whereas  Halifax says it wants  to stabilise the wall, in light of 
the findings of the report completed in February 2018.  
Halifax has already  refunded  Mr and Mrs G the costs they incurred in having some  short  
term works done to the pillar. But it doesnt  intend to rebuild the wall. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs G, but I dont  think Halifax  is under any obligation to have  the wall rebuilt as 
theyd prefer.  Ive looked at the terms of their policy and the wording says: 
How we settle claims
This section  details how we settle  claims under your policy.  We decide  how a claim 
will be settled
I can understand why Mr and Mrs G want their wall to be repaired so that it appears to be as 
it was before the leak. But, having  considered the terms of their policy, I dont think Halifax  is 
required to arrange  this. Its up to Halifax to decide how best to settle  a claim. It has 
explained that, having considered the report from the engineer who most recently  visited, it 
was possible to take steps  to stabilise the wall without rebuilding it. I cant say that Halifax  is 
applying the terms  of Mr and Mrs Gs policy unfairly by taking this decision. I am satisfied 
Halifaxs position to arrange for the wall to be repaired, rather than rebuilt, is reasonable.
That being  said,  in the final response from July 2018, Halifax  said if Mr and Mrs G were not 
satisfied with that proposal, they could instruct their own engineers report. Its up to Mr and 
Mrs G if they want to take this course of action, however  if they choose to do so they may 
incur costs with this. If no repairs have been  carried out, Id expect Halifax  to consider any 
findings in that report.
Ref: DRN48053543my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4805354