K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered 
him to settle his complaint  about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on his 
credit card.
background
Mr K complained to Barclays  that it mis-sold him a PPI policy alongside  his credit card. 
Initially Barclays said it could find no PPI associated  with the card. However sometime  later it 
agreed that PPI had most likely been taken  out when Mr K applied  for his credit card in 
February 1990. Barclays agreed  to uphold Mr Ks complaint  that the PPI had been mis-sold  
and made  him an offer to settle his complaint. 
Barclays said it had no data to work  out accurately how much  Mr K had actually paid for the 
PPI and how long it ran on the account.  So it had made him an average  offer based on data 
it held for other consumers who had been  sold a comparable  policy  held for a similar  time.  
Whilst Barclays didnt know exactly when the policy ended it had records  from January 2001  
and the policy wasnt running then. So it assumed the PPI ended  in December 2000.
Mr K was unhappy with the offer as he didnt think an average  offer was right as he said his 
balance was far more  than what could be considered an average one for other  consumers. 
So he says the compensation should  be much higher.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr K 
didnt agree as he still thought hed spent more  on the card than average and more  should 
be estimated for the costs  of the PPI. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed it mis-sold PPI to Mr K, so Im not looking at how the policy was sold.  I 
need to look at whether the offer of compensation Barclays has made to Mr K is fair.
I think the offer is fair and Id like to explain  why.
We expect a business that mis-sold  PPI to put things right by putting  the consumer as far as 
possible into the position theyd be in now if theyd taken  the credit  card without PPI. 
So wed expect a business to refund what a consumer paid for PPI premiums.  It should also 
pay back any interest the consumer was charged  on these premiums. And, if the consumer 
paid more than enough to clear  their balance, it should add 8% per year simple interest to 
the extra the consumer paid for any time theyre  out of pocket. 
If there are missing  records it is impossible  to know exactly what  someone paid for PPI. So 
we expect the business to use any records it does have to make  reasonable assumptions 
and make the fairest offer it can for the amount possibly paid for the PPI.
 
Ref: DRN43025252Barclays has copies of the credit card statements for Mr Ks account from January 2001 and 
it has some  computer records showing  overall information about  the account.  It also has the 
original application  form completed by Mr K dated  16 January 1990.
The overall computer  records  do not show any indication that PPI was attached  to the 
account or ever paid.  However the application form had an opt out box that had to be 
ticked if PPI was not requested. As this box had not been  ticked Barclays has assumed that 
Mr K most likely had PPI applied to his account, despite the other  records  not showing any 
PPI.
As the computer records do not show any information about PPI it is unknown  when it was 
cancelled. The PPI could  have been  cancelled at any time. Its possible Mr K saw the PPI 
charge on his first statement and questioned  it and it was cancelled  after the first month.  Its 
also possible  it was cancelled when a new card was issued for the account after the first 3 or 
4 years which also happens. But with no information available to show  any actual 
cancellation date Barclays has assumed  it was December 2000. This is because the first 
available statement for the account  is for January 2001 and this shows  there was no PPI 
being charged in that month.  All subsequent statements do not show any PPI charges.
So I think Barclays has taken a very reasonable approach to the time the PPI may have 
been active. Their assumptions  mean  charges could have been made to the card account 
for PPI from February 1990  one month  after the application  and opening of the account   
to December 2000. This would mean  the PPI could have been charged  for a maximum of 10 
years 10 months.
Mr K has pointed  out that on the one statement he had from May 2001 the account balance  
was almost £7,500.  He feels this indicates his account balance  would have been far higher 
than he believes Barclays has assumed in working  out his compensation. So the PPI 
charges would be more and his compensation should be more.
Mr K has assessed, using the offer amount  made to him, that Barclays has used an average 
monthly balance  on his account  of £1,000  which he thinks is unfair. However  that is not 
actually the way Barclays has come to the average  offer figure for the compensation it has 
paid to Mr K.
There are a number of ways that are considered fair for a business  to assess what  may be 
described as an average offer and fair compensation where there  is not full data available.  If 
a business has any actual data for an account  when the PPI was active,  it would normally  
use that to build an estimate  of what may have  happened before and after that data period 
for the PPI charges.  But here Barclays has no specific  data for the PPI charges to use.
Barclays has nothing to show  how much  was paid, if anything  at all, for the PPI at any time. 
As Ive said it has very fairly assumed PPI may have run from the start of the account to the 
month before the first statement,  so Mr K would have had PPI on his account  for a period of 
10 to 11 years.
Over a number of years  Barclays  has obtained data about other consumers who held a 
similar PPI policy,  on the same  type of account,  for similar time periods. And it has 
established a formula looking  at the balances  and charges those consumers paid for PPI. 
Barclays states it has used data from 2,136 comparable policies from consumers at the date 
it made its offer to Mr K. And from that data it has established the average amount paid to 
those consumers was £4,337.98. This average  amount it what  it has paid to Mr K. 
Ref: DRN43025253I have note Mr Ks comments about  his balance in May 2001, which  was over £7,000, which  
he feels indicates a high level of balance on the card. Also he says the he spent more in the 
early years of the card.
However I have looked at the statements provided  for the period from January 2001  to May 
2004 and the pattern of spending. I have also noted that Mr K had a credit limit of £8,600 in 
January 2001  and this was increased to £10,400  in May 2001. The increase in limit would 
reflect the high balances on the card in early 2001. But then the balance  is cleared in July 
2001, so the balance in August  2001  was only £104.  For the next 12 months  there were only 
2 months when the balance was around  £4,000  and 2 further  months when it was around  
£2,000. For the remaining 8 months  it was generally only a couple of hundred  pounds  at 
most.
The pattern  over the whole period indicates that from time to time Mr K did build up a higher  
balance for a few months but then cleared most  of it and it remained low, then gradually  built 
up, the higher balance last no more  than a few months. It is also the case that when a credit  
card account  is opened  the credit limit is lower  so the spending is also lower. Clearly  as Mr K 
moved towards his credit limit it was increased  in May 2001. This probably also happened  in 
the previous 10 years.  So in the early years  of the card the limit would have been lower  and 
also even if Mr Ks spending pattern was similar  the highest amounts would have been lower  
and there  would be many months with very small balances on the account.
Taking all these factors into account I cannot  see there is any evidence to show  PPI would 
have been paid on a balance of possibly £7,000 regularly as Mr K seems  to indicate. There 
is no clear evidence of how much was ever paid, even in one month, for the PPI premiums.  
So there is no data Barclays can use in a calculation to work out what Mr K may have paid 
more accurately. Therefore I think the approach that Barclays  has taken is fair and that the 
compensation it has paid to Mr K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
It is possible Mr K could  have paid more for the PPI than the compensation offered by 
Barclays but is it also quite likely  he paid less. So without any further  clear  evidence, I think  
Barclays offer as far as possible will ensure he is not out of pocket for any costs of the PPI.
Barclays has also acknowledged it made an error  in not initially identifying there was PPI on 
the account and not then progressing the matter as it should.  It has offered an additional 
£50.00 for the trouble  and upset this may have caused.
I think this is a reasonable taking account  of all the circumstances  so Im not intending to tell 
Barclays to pay any more  than this for any trouble  and upset caused by its error.
Ref: DRN43025254my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I am satisfied that the compensation paid by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to Mr K for the mis-sold PPI on his credit card is fair and Im not telling it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4302525