K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Zenith Insurance plc havent paid his full claim when he claimed on his 
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy. Hes also complained the repairs took too long to 
complete. 
background
Mr Hs car was overheating so he took it to the garage to diagnose the fault. The garage said 
there was an issue with the water pump  and replaced it along  with some other parts. A few 
days later Mr Hs car continued to overheat.  The garage said there  might  be an issue with 
the head gasket, so Mr H decided  to claim on his policy. 
Zenith reviewed the claim and directed Mr H to one of its nominated repairers. Mr H was told 
he would  need  to pay for the diagnostics which included checking the new water  pump.  Mr H 
didnt think this was fair as it had just been replaced  by another garage.  He also thought  the 
repairs were taking too long so he complained. 
The garage said it had difficulty  replicating the fault.  But once it was able to, it found  the 
radiator was blocked and would need  to be changed. Zenith turned down Mr Hs claim for 
the radiator. It said a blockage wasnt a sudden  mechanical failure as defined in the policy.  
As the issue  kept continuing and had taken too long to resolve  Mr H didnt want  to take his 
car back to the same  garage, so he took it to another nominated repairer  to diagnose  the 
fault. The garage said the coolant cap and sensor needed changing so replaced those. 
As the fault was still present Mr H asked if he could take the car to a main  dealer as hed lost 
faith in Zeniths  nominated repairers. Zenith  said he could, but they wouldnt cover  the full 
costs of a main dealer. When the main  dealer inspected  Mr Hs car it said the head gasket 
had gone and the engine  had suffered damage  from overheating. Because  of this it said the 
engine needed  to be replaced.  
Zenith said the damage to the engine  was because Mr H had continued to drive his car 
when the warning light said he should  stop driving it, because it was overheating. Zenith  said 
they would  cover the cost of a replacement  engine as a good  will gesture and gave Mr H 
different options.  One was for the main  dealer  to replace the engine, but Zenith would limit 
what they would pay to £4,945.60. Zenith  also agreed to cover one weeks worth of car 
rental for Mr H because of the delays in his claim.  
Mr H didnt think this was good enough. He said his repair had taken  too long and he would 
still be around £1,100 out of pocket. Mr H then referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Hs complaint and didnt think Zenith needed to do any more.  
He found that while  there  had been delays Zenith  had agreed to cover the cost of the 
replacement engine when  it hadnt needed too. He also found  that the policy didnt provide a 
courtesy car while Mr Hs was in for repair. So, he thought Zenith had acted fairly by paying 
Mr Hs travel costs.  Our investigator  also didnt think Zenith  had treated Mr H unfairly in 
turning down his claim for the blocked  radiator. 
As Mr H didnt  agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN48272302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy  says it will contribute towards  the cost of repairs  because  of unexpected 
mechanical or electrical breakdown. It goes onto say Breakdown(s) means  the sudden  and 
unexpected failure  of a Component arising from any permanent or electrical defect, (for 
reason other than Wear  and Tear, normal deterioration or negligence) causing the sudden 
stoppage of its function, necessitating immediate repair or replacement of the Component 
before normal operation  can be resumed.
Zenith has turned down  Mr Hs claim for a blockage  as it said its not a sudden and 
unexpected failure.  Mr H doesnt think  this is fair and says that Zenith  should  cover the 
claim. I dont  think I need to decide  whether the blockage would meet  the definition of a 
breakdown, as defined in the policy, in this particular  case.  This is because Zenith have 
approved Mr Hs claim for a new engine  when it didnt need  to. I say this because Zenith 
said the car needed a new engine because Mr H continued to drive it after a warning light 
said he should stop. Theyve  also provided  an engineers report  to support  this. 
Mr Hs policy  excludes damage  caused by continuing to drive  after a fault has occurred. I 
understand Mr H disputes this and said the damage  could have occurred when it was in for 
repair and was being tested. However,  Im not persuaded thats happened here. I say this 
because the repairing garages had difficulty replicating and diagnosing the fault.  Mr H also 
admits he continued  to drive the car after the warning light came on. Im therefore more 
persuaded by the engineers comments.  As Zenith  have paid for a new engine  when  they 
didnt need to, Im satisfied theyve done  more  under  the policy  that they should. So, while 
Mr H disagreed about the blockage claim being declined, Im not persuaded Zenith needs to 
do anymore because of this. 
Ive also looked  at the length of time the repairs took. I can see Mr Hs car went to different 
garages before eventually  going to a main dealer who diagnosed the fault quickly. While the 
repair has taken longer than it should, this is partly down to there being different issues  with 
Mr Hs car which  needed  repairing. Also, I can see Zenith have repaid Mr H some of his 
travel expenses because  of the delays along  with covering the claim for a replacement  
engine. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so Im not going  to ask 
Zenith to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4827230