K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited has dealt with 
a claim made under  his private and public hire motor  insurance policy.
background
In February 2018  Mr M was unfortunately involved in an incident with another  car. He 
reported the incident to Markerstudy. 
In September  2018 Mr M complained. He said Markerstudy failed to update him about the 
claim. He said it failed to collect dashcam  footage  from his car which  would have recorded 
the incident and provide he wasnt at fault. 
Markerstudy accepted  that it had failed to keep Mr M updated.  It said its agent had tried to 
contact Mr M several times in March 2018 to arrange an appointment to view his car and 
obtain the footage. But Mr M didnt reply to its calls or emails. The owner of the camera  that 
was installed in Mr Ms car collected  the footage on 19 March 2018.  Mr Ms car was declared 
a total loss and the camera was their property.  As a result,  the footage was no longer 
available. 
Markerstudy paid Mr M £150  compensation for its poor service. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said it should have been 
a straight forward claim that could  have been  settled  long ago - had Markerstudy  obtained 
the footage from his car. He said he had to have the camera installed as a condition  of his 
insurance with Markerstudy.  Mr M felt Markerstudy took too long to admit to him that the 
footage had been lost. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability  and Markerstudy was still dealing  
with the claim as the third party disputed liability. Even though  he couldnt say whether  the 
footage would have proved liability, the investigator thought Markerstudy  hadnt  done 
enough to obtain it promptly and hadnt properly investigated the claim.  So he thought  
Markerstudy should pay Mr M an additional £150  compensation.  
Markerstudy didnt agree.  It provided information from its agent which it said showed  it had 
contacted Mr M a number  of times  but hed failed to reply during March  2018. 
The investigator didnt  think the information provided  was enough to show  Markerstudy had 
acted reasonably. 
Markerstudy wants an ombudsman to decide.
Mr M hasnt  provided any comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the notes provided, I can only see that Markerstudy instructed an agent to take photos 
of Mr Ms car in March  2018. Theres no reference  to obtaining  footage from a camera.  
Ref: DRN47202202The notes provided  by the agent dont give details of the phone  number it used to try and 
contact Mr M. It has provided a copy of one email which it sent to Mr M on 5 March  2018. 
This was a request to take photos  of his car the following day. But this didnt happen  
because Mr M didnt  reply. 
On 4 April 2018  the agent closed its case as it hadnt heard from Mr M.
Its not clear who instructed the owner of the camera to retrieve it from Mr Ms car. But we 
know this happened  on 19 March 2018 and the footage isnt available.  Markerstudy 
discovered this in May 2018. There isnt enough to show me that Markerstudy  or its agent 
acting on behalf  of Markerstudy   did enough  (or anything) to obtain the footage from Mr Ms 
car in order  to help with its investigation.  
While we cant conclude that  had the footage  been available  it would have made  a 
difference to the outcome of liability  I think Mr M should be compensated for the upset 
caused by Markerstudy  not taking adequate steps to obtain it promptly  from his car. Its paid 
Mr M £150 compensation for failing to update  him about the claim. Its notes show that Mr M 
had to chase Markerstudy  for updates. 
So I agree with the investigator that Markerstudy  should compensate  Mr M for failing to do 
enough to obtain the dashcam footage. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy to pay Mr M £150 
compensation in addition  to the £150 its already paid for failing to take steps to obtain  
dashcam footage from his car. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4720220