K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  wont refund the money that 
wasnt dispensed from a cash machine  (ATM).
background
Mr K made a cash  withdrawal of £500 on 26 January 2019. He says the money  wasnt 
dispensed. He phoned NatWest a few days later to tell it what had happened and he asked it 
to refund the money.  NatWest refused  to do so. It says that it contacted  the owner of the 
ATM which provided evidence to show the cash was dispensed correctly.
NatWest says that it has investigated and found that the cash in the ATM balanced and 
there werent  any issues reported  with the machine at the time. It wont agree to refund the 
£500.
Our investigator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld. She thought NatWest had 
provided enough information  to show that the £500 was more  likely than not dispensed 
properly. She didnt think NatWest should  refund the £500.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that NatWest gave  him wrong information at the time and it 
should have got hold of the CCTV. This would have shown that the cash  wasnt properly 
dispensed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that Ive reached 
broadly the same view as the investigator, for similar reasons.
the cash withdrawal
The ATM Mr K used wasnt one that belonged  to NatWest. When  Mr K contacted it, NatWest 
asked the ATM owner for information to show whether or not there was a problem with the 
machine and whether the cash  was dispensed  or not.
The information NatWest  received, which Ive reviewed, shows that Mr Ks withdrawal was 
successfully approved. This means  it was authorised by his bank. The information shows 
that Mr K carried out a balance enquiry prior to trying  to withdraw £500 from the ATM.  It also 
indicates that the right number and denomination of notes was dispensed  (22 x £20 notes  
and 6 x £10 notes) at the time of Mr Ks withdrawal.  Theres  no indication  that there was any 
problem with the machine.
The information also shows the withdrawals that took place before and after Mr Ks 
withdrawal. There was one about seven minutes  before Mr K used the machine and another 
about seven minutes  after. So there wasnt a queue and the information shows those 
withdrawals were completed successfully. 
Mr Ks entire transaction  from the insertion of his card for his balance enquiry to the 
presentation of the cash  took less than one minute. I would  generally  expect a cash 
machine to identify  automatically if cash isnt dispensed properly, such  as problems counting 
it or a customer not collecting it. If Mr Ks money  had been dispensed and not taken straight  
Ref: DRN44878562away then the cash would  be retracted and dropped into the purge bin. That didnt happen 
here. And the ATM was balanced a few days later. There wasnt any surplus cash  in the 
machine.
Ive thought about the possibility of whether someone had tampered  with the machine. The 
machine is located  on a busy high street, which makes tampering unlikely because  of the 
high risk of being  seen  and there  isnt any evidence to show  that the machine  was tampered 
with.
I appreciate that Mr K feels that NatWest  should have been given the CCTV recording. He 
says that this would show  that the cash wasnt dispensed and would make a difference  to 
the outcome.  Ive thought  about this  but based on the technical evidence  Ive seen  I 
dont think that CCTV evidence would change the conclusions Ive reached.
Whilst I understand Mr Ks upset  and disappointment, I find that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, the cash was most  likely correctly dispensed. Whilst I cant say why he didnt 
receive the money, I cant fairly  ask NatWest to refund that amount to his account.
customer service
Mr K says that when  he contacted NatWest about  this he was told that he could  expect to 
receive a refund. Sometimes a bank will make  a temporary refund to an account  whilst  it 
carries out its investigation  but it usually will say that it will re-debit the refund if the evidence  
suggests that the cash was properly dispensed.  
NatWest accepts that it gave Mr K confusing and misleading information. I think  its customer 
service wasnt  of a standard that Mr K should have  been able to expect. But it has already 
paid him £50 for this, which, having  considered everything, I think  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4487856