K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC pressured him into selling assets and then his 
home at less than market  value. He also complains that Barclays  unfairly  withdrew an offer 
to extend the term of his mortgage.
Background
Mr C took an 8 year, interest only, residential mortgage  with Barclays  in 2008. The mortgage 
amount was £243,000 and the property was valued at £435,000.
Mr C says he approached  Barclays to extend the term of the mortgage in 2014, but was told 
it was too early to do so and he should  apply again  in a year. He applied  again in 2015  and 
was told the mortgage was unaffordable.  He says Barclays pressurised him to sell assets   
an ATM  machine, his business and his 50% share in his sons  home  so that the proposed  
extension to his mortgage term would be affordable. 
To bring  down the outstanding amount  on his mortgage, Mr C did sell his ATM  machine and, 
later, his business.  He says both these  assets  were sold at less than hes received  offers  for 
previously as he was in a hurry to sell due to pressure from Barclays.  But he was unable to 
realise the 50% share  in his sons flat because that was where his son had lived for a 
considerable time. And his son was unable to raise  the finance to buy Mr Cs share.  
According to Barclays contact notes, Mr C also sought advice from an IFA with a view to 
remortgaging with another lender, but that was found not to be an option.
An application to extend the term of Mr Cs mortgage was declined  in June 2017. He says 
Barclays had told him it would consider the term extension affordable, if he reduced  his 
outstanding balance to £180,000. By the time of this application his outstanding balance  was 
less than £150,000. But Barclays contact notes  also confirm the application was declined 
because the property was being  used for bed and breakfast (B&B). Mr C has explained that 
he listed the house for B&B to make it more marketable. And he was already letting one 
room under a government  scheme, earning £7,000  per annum.
Mr C appealed Barclays decision  unsuccessfully and told Barclays  he would reduce the 
outstanding balance by a further £20,000. He did so in November 2017  and told Barclays  
hed stopped using the property as a B&B. At Mr Cs request, Barclays considered  the term 
extension application  again. While his application was considered affordable,  Barclays  
declined it because the property was still licenced as a B&B.  Barclays  contact notes  indicate  
that Mr C wasnt prepared  to cancel the licence  until hed received confirmation from it that 
his application  had been accepted.
In April 2018 Mr C told Barclays hed sold the property for £290,000. Mr C says he did this 
due to pressure  from Barclays  and that it was sold at less than market value. He says he 
didnt want to sell the property because he is disabled and it had been adapted specifically 
for his use - and Barclays was aware  of this. He also said that, at no time did Barclays  tell 
him the licence had to be removed for his application to extend the term to be accepted. He 
says, as someone with 40 years  experience  as a surveyor, he sees  no reason why the B&B 
licence would negatively  affect the value of the property.  He says Barclays actions resulted 
in him being made homeless, relying  on friends  and family for places to stay. Hed never 
been late on his mortgage payments and managed to reduce his mortgage  debt by 
approximately £125,000.
Ref: DRN46539292Barclays says it had no involvement in the sale of the property or the sale price. It explored 
several options according to Mr Cs proposals  and his decision to use the property as a 
business as well as his home  was in violation of the residential mortgage  terms and 
conditions. It started  no legal action nor did it begin  repossession action.
Our investigator thought Barclays decision not to approve the term extension was fair 
because a residential mortgage  wasnt suitable for the way Mr C was using the property. 
She didnt  think it was unreasonable for Barclays to explain that it would consider Mr Cs 
application again, should he reduce the balance of the mortgage. Despite the mortgage term 
expiring nearly two years prior to Mr C selling his property,  Barclays  didnt begin legal action. 
Instead it put numerous stops on action and explored the options  Mr C proposed. She didnt 
think Barclays caused any unnecessary pressure for a quick  sale.
Mr C didnt agree. He says he closed down his B&B business and he was not aware of any 
requirement by Barclays  for de-registration of the B&B business. He says he could have 
easily reinstated the registration if he had removed it before the survey. Mr C also says that 
his recollection of a conversation - referred  to in the investigators opinion  - about  him 
refusing to deregister the B&B until his application  was accepted is different to Barclays note 
of it. He says that note indicates only that he understood  the B&B had to be closed. Hes 
received nothing in writing  from Barclays confirming that the deregistration issue was central  
to its decision not to extend the term. 
Mr C is also concerned that Barclays hasnt responded to a request to disclose all 
information held about him, particularly letters and phone recordings relating  to its reason for 
declining the term extension application.  Barclays has only been able to provide  as evidence 
one phone recording which happens  to support its case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To reach my decision, Ive thought about whether  Barclays applied undue  pressure to Mr C 
in respect of selling his assets and then selling his property to repay  the mortgage. Ive also 
thought about whether Barclays acted unfairly in declining Mr Cs application  to extend the 
mortgage term.
Pressure applied  by Barclays
Mr Cs mortgage with Barclays was due to end in June  2016. So, I would expect Barclays to 
have wanted Mr C to repay any outstanding balance by this time. And I think that its 
reasonable that they should  ask him to do so. Inevitably, those requests would include an 
explanation of the action  Barclays  could take to recover the outstanding balance if Mr C 
failed to make full repayment. I can understand why Mr C may feel pressured  by such 
requests, but Ive not seen any correspondence  from Barclays  that I would consider to be 
threatening or significantly different  from what Id expect under the circumstances.
Mr C wanted Barclays to extend the mortgage term. But his proposal was deemed by 
Barclays to be unaffordable,  applying its lending criteria. Barclays  was aware that Mr C had 
other assets that could be used to reduce the mortgage. Mr C says Barclays  put pressure on 
Ref: DRN46539293him to sell these assets, resulting in him selling some at below  market  value. Hes said he 
wants Barclays to compensate him for those  losses.  
While Im in no doubt that it was in Barclays interest that Mr C sells his assets  so that some 
of his mortgage balance could be repaid, I think it was also to Mr Cs advantage. I say this 
because Mr C wanted Barclays to extend  the term and  at that time  it was the affordability 
of his proposal the prevented that from happening.  Reducing his mortgage balance  would go 
some way to addressing  the issue of affordability.  Mr C has told this service that he knew 
what the correct market value was for both the ATM machine and his business. I think he 
knowingly accepted  lower offers to make his term extension proposal more  affordable.  Its 
not possible for me to conclude that its likely  he would have received better offers  or how 
long he would have  had to wait for offers that met his valuation of those  assets. I havent 
seen that Barclays  had any say in the price at which Mr C agreed to sell those  assets. So, I 
dont think it can be held accountable for the losses Mr C claims.
Mr C also says Barclays pressurised him to sell the unencumbered property in which his son 
lived as he had a 50 percent share.  He says he didnt do this because it was his sons  home.  
Mr C has said neither  he nor his son could have raised finance on that property, but given no 
explanation as to why. Given that I think its reasonable for Barclays  to have expected 
repayment at the end of the term of Mr Cs mortgage, I also think  its reasonable it explored 
the possibility  of Mr C raising money against  this unencumbered asset. I havent seen that it 
did so unreasonably and, in any event,  the pressure wasnt sufficient to make Mr C act in 
this regard.
I would acknowledge  that Mr C did try to extend the mortgage well before the end of the term 
and that it was Barclays that said it wouldnt  consider an application that early. But it did 
consider Mr Cs proposal to extend  the mortgage  approximately a year before it was due to 
end. And it allowed him nearly two years  after the term expired  without  starting any 
repossession action. Mr C then chose to sell  he says at a value below the market rate. But, 
given that Barclays  hadnt started repossession action,  I dont  think  it was putting  unfair  
pressure on Mr C. So, I also dont think Barclays caused the loss on the sale of the property 
that Mr C claims.
The application to extend the mortgage term
I think its reasonable  and responsible   of Barclays  to insist that Mr Cs proposal to extend  
the term of his mortgage was affordable. And I think it makes sense that it would do so 
before a surveyor was instructed to value  the property. The process did take some time as 
Mr C sold assets and made other overpayments to reduce the balance of his mortgage. 
I understand that, having sold his assets  and reduced his mortgage balance,  Mr C felt 
aggrieved that Barclays still refused his application to extend  the term. But I think it did 
consider Mr Cs application seriously. I say this because it did instruct a surveyor once it was 
satisfied the application met its affordability criteria.  And I think  it couldnt  have known  Mr C 
was using the property as a B&B. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that Mr C was in breach of his mortgage conditions 
by using the property as a B&B. The mortgage conditions state:
Section 18. Your  Obligations In respect  of the Property and Payments
(f)(subject to the terms of any lettings  to which we may
Ref: DRN46539294have consented) to keep  the Property available for
disposal with vacant  possession. 
(g)subject to the above, to use and occupy the Property
as your main  residence or the main residence of a
related person which for the purposes of this
condition means  your spouse  (or civil partner),
parent, brother, sister, child, grandparent  or
grandchild and for no other purpose;
Mr C hasnt claimed that Barclays had previously  consented to such a use as a B&B, so I 
dont think Barclays knew. 
Mr C says, after his application  was first declined on the basis of the propertys use, he did 
everything Barclays asked before he reapplied   he says he closed  down the B&B part of 
the property and stopped  advertising and taking  bookings.  Barclays  went on to decline  this 
application because  the property was still licenced  as a B&B. Mr C says he wasnt told the 
licence had to be removed before the application, nor was he ever told that was the reason 
the application was declined. 
Barclays has provided a recording  of a telephone conversation between  Mr C and one of its 
advisors which took place before that application  was made. During  the call Mr C says the 
licence hasnt been removed and the advisor  says that may not be acceptable to Barclays 
underwriters. He said hed find out and confirm to Mr C. I havent  seen any evidence that the 
advisor ever did get back to Mr C on that point. But Im satisfied Mr C would have known  it 
may be an issue, so I think he could have acted to remove that risk.
Mr C says he doesnt think  Barclays need have declined the application because of the B&B 
licence. He says the licence didnt  materially affect  the value of the property and his health  
concerns meant he was highly unlikely to reopen as a B&B.  He also says the removal of the 
licence wouldnt have  prevented reopening in any event as it would  be a simple  matter to get 
it reinstated. However,  I dont think Barclays couldve been expected to know  the likelihood  
of Mr C reopening the B&B based  on his health.  But I think  Mr Cs failure to remove  the 
licence may have been an indication  to Barclays that he had only closed the B&B 
temporarily. Given that this would  have been  a breach of the terms and conditions of the 
residential mortgage, I think it fair that Barclays declined the application  on that basis.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays told Mr C that it declined  the application because  of 
the licence. Mr C says he wasnt  informed of the reason so chose to sell the property rather  
than remove the licence and reapply for the term extension. Barclays contact notes suggest 
that Mr C was still in discussion with it about the extension of the term between his final 
application being declined and him informing Barclays that a sale had been agreed.  A note 
from February 2018 says:
 customer won't remove the B&B licence  until they get a definite decision from 
us
Ive not seen that Barclays has confirmed  the reason  the application was declined  until it is 
referred to as part of a timeline of events  provided with Barclays final response  letter  of July 
2018. So, while Barclays contact note is not conclusive, I think,  on balance, Mr C was aware 
of the reason the application  was declined. I also think  he could have removed the licence 
Ref: DRN46539295and reapplied for the term extension, rather than sell the property. So, I dont agree that 
Barclays has pressured Mr C into homelessness as he claims.
Other issues
Mr C has raised  a number of points which I dont think  influence  the outcome  of his main  
complaints, but Ill address them here.
In more recent correspondence about his complaint, Barclays refers to an ISA that was 
supposed to be the repayment  vehicle for the mortgage. Mr C says its not reasonable to 
raise that as it was never mentioned previously. Ive not considered that as a point in 
Barclays favour as I dont think its relevant to his main complaint points. 
Mr C has asked Barclays for all the data it has about  his mortgage, including 
correspondence and statements.  He thinks it strange that Barclays  can only recover  one 
telephone call and that happens  to support its case. Barclays says it didnt receive  his 
previous request, but C says he can evidence  that it did. Mr C, in an email  to us, has 
confirmed that hes taking this matter up with the Information Commissioners Office.  Since 
then Barclays has provided all the written correspondence it had and Mr Cs forwarded that 
to us for consideration. 
Ive carefully considered  that information  along with Mr Cs accompanying email. Ive seen 
that Barclays did write to him in June 2018, notifying  him of its intention to instruct  a home  
visit. That was after it was made aware by Mr Cs solicitor  that the sale of the property was 
proceeding. I dont  think Barclays should have sent that letter,  but I cant see that the home 
visit happened  Mr C has not said it did  and I dont think he was charged for it. The other 
correspondence from Barclays is generally what I would expect to see in the circumstances.
I would comment that, while businesses say they may record telephone conversations,  
theyre not always kept for very long. We have to weigh-up the evidence  were provided with 
by both parties of any complaint and rely on those parties to provide  all thats  available.  In 
this case, the phone call provided  did show that Mr C was made aware that the presence  of 
the B&B licence  might be a factor in the underwriters decision. 
In summary
Mr Cs mortgage should have been  repaid in 2016. If a borrower isnt in a position  to clear 
the lump sum at the end of the term as originally agreed its the responsibility of the lender 
and the borrower  to come up with reasonable solutions that means the outstanding  balance  
will be repaid. Barclays did explore these options  with Mr C, taking into account his individual 
circumstances  but none of them were viable.
I dont think Barclays put Mr C under unfair pressure to sell his assets or the property, 
though I dont doubt that he felt pressurised by his circumstances and that may have 
influenced his decision making. I also think it was reasonable  for Barclays  to decline the term 
extension application  because the property  was licenced  as a B&B. So, while I understand 
that Mr C has sold the property he spent time and money modifying for his needs, I dont 
think Barclays caused that. Overall, I dont  think Barclays has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
Ref: DRN46539296Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4653929