K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  her a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss L took out the policy in 2007  at the same time as arranging her mortgage.  The policy 
covered her for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Miss L disagrees  with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss L says she wasnt given an option  of having the mortgage without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  a choice, she would have declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional  information  Ive seen from Santander.
Santander has sent us a copy  of Miss Ls mortgage application form. Having reviewed this 
form, I cant see that it mentions PPI anywhere.  In the section for insurance (section  9), it 
specifically states  youre  not required to take out any insurance  through Abbey.  
Santander has also provided us with a copy of the document  it used to assess Miss Ls 
circumstances at the time the mortgage was arranged. In the section for the PPI it states, I 
would like to protect my monthly  mortgage and related outgoings against Accident, Sickness 
or Unemployment.  This along with the mortgage  application form suggests to me that the 
PPI was sold as a separate product to the mortgage  which supports my understanding of 
Santanders sales practices at the time of sale.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Miss L would  have understood 
the PPI was separate to the mortgage  and not something she had to have. And I dont think  
she would  have agreed to it if she didnt want to take it out.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Miss L, and the policy seems to have been right 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She was eligible for cover  
and I cant see that she would have been affected  by the main things the policy didnt cover.
Ref: DRN45480022Miss L has told us she had a medical condition at the time of sale.  Having thought  about 
what shes said, I dont think this would  have meant  that the PPI wasnt right for her. Ill 
explain why.
Looking that policy terms and conditions, I can see that pre-existing medical  conditions  
arent covered for the first 12 months  of cover. The policy terms and conditions do however 
go on to state that a policyholder would  be entitled  to make a claim for their pre-existing 
medical condition,  once the first 12 months had passed.
In addition to this, the policy terms and conditions show that the policyholder would have  had 
to wait 28 days in order to make a claim for sickness  including  anything  related to their pre-
existing medical conditions. In this case,  Miss L hasnt  told us anything  to suggest that shed 
had to take extended periods of time off work  for her medical condition   which  is what  the 
PPI was designed to cover. So, overall  and based on what  Miss L has told us about  her 
medical condition,  I dont think Santanders  recommendation was unsuitable.
Miss L has told us she didnt need  PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from 
her employer, and also had some savings she could  have used to help cover  her mortgage 
repayments. She says she would  have been entitled to six months  full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Having thought about what 
Miss L has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means the policy  wasnt  right for her. I 
say this because  the PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Miss L would have 
received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than she would 
have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Miss L was ever made  
redundant and would have enabled  Miss L to use her savings for any other financial 
commitments she may have had at what could be a difficult time. 
Miss L has also told us she didnt need the PPI, as she had a death in service benefit and 
life assurance.  But the benefits  of the PPI included  accident  and sickness  and 
unemployment cover  which is different from a death  in service benefit and life assurance. As 
a result,  I dont think the additional cover  shes mentioned would have meant that Santander  
was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
Finally, Miss L has said she could have relied  on her family  to help her with her repayments. 
Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt right for her. While Miss Ls family would 
want to help, their financial situation  could change  and so this help couldnt  always be relied  
on.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Miss L, Santander also had to give her 
clear enough  information  about  the PPI. I think its possible that Santander didnt give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Miss L buying it.
Ref: DRN45480023my final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4548002