K820x#14complaint
Miss D has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didn't provide a refund  
when she changed  the car on her motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Miss D scrapped the car on her policy. Roughly two weeks later she bought another car 
and asked Advantage to change the cars on her policy. Advantage did so charging Miss D 
an additional  premium  of around £74, which incorporated a £25 admin  charge.
Miss D noted Advantage hadnt  applied  a refund for the period her policy didn't have a car 
on it. She brought her complaint about  that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  Advantage had 
done anything  wrong. Miss D didn't  agree so her complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Miss D said she scrapped her car. In other words the car became the property  of a salvage 
dealer. Advantage said that if shed  told it about that at the time it would have allowed 
Miss D a week  in which to change the car. And if she didn't  do that within  that time-frame it 
would have cancelled  her policy and charged her £45 for doing so. It noted that any refund 
of premium would  have been less than £7. So it said Miss D has actually benefitted from 
Advantages decision to allow her policy  to remain in place.
I think Advantages position  is reasonable. After she'd disposed  of her initial car, she didn't  
have a car for the policy  to cover.  This isn't an unusual situation  as it sometimes  happens  
after a cars  been damaged beyond economic repair in an accident. And in those 
circumstances we think its reasonable to allow a consumer a short amount of time in which  
to replace the car on the policy, subject to any additional premium and admin fee. We don't 
expect insurers to provide  refunds for the period a car isn't on the policy, as the consumer 
has the option to cancel  the policy if theyre  not happy with that and thats  their choice.
If Miss D had chosen to cancel her policy she would have had to pay a £45 charge. In 
contrast her premium  for the period she didn't have a car on cover was less than £7. 
Advantage hasn't insisted that Miss D cancel her policy and I think  thats  reasonable in the 
circumstances, particularly as Miss D won't  have to pay a £45 charge. It follows  that I don't 
think Advantage has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Ref: DRN48603352Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4860335