K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Ms B have complained that London  General Insurance Company Limited (London  
General Insurance)  has failed  to settle a claim they made on their warranty  insurance.
background
Mr H and Ms B have a tablet computer they purchased with a warranty insurance, the policy 
is in Mr Hs name only. The insurance provided cover  for accidental damage and breakdown 
on the device.
In September  2017 Mr H and Ms B contacted London General Insurance  to report a fault 
with the device. It was collected by London General Insurance  with a courier service. The 
tablet was returned in October  2017 once  London  General Insurance  had inspected the 
damage.
London General  Insurance  said when  it looked at the tablet it couldnt find a fault with the 
engineer recording  this as no fault found .
Mr H and Ms B contacted  London General Insurance  two days after the tablet  had been  
returned. They complained about  damage they believed was caused  when it was in the care 
of London General Insurance.  There were now scratches and dents to the back of the tablet 
which they said werent there before.  And Mr H and Ms B provided  photos of the condition of 
the tablet prior to collection  showing the damage  was new. 
London General  Insurance  said in November 2017  it would replace the back of the tablet 
where the damage was present as a goodwill gesture  as this damage wasnt  covered 
under the policy.  Mr H and Ms B told London General Insurance the tablet still wasnt 
working properly, despite  no fault being found  when it was previously inspected.
London General  Insurance  received the tablet to repair the back panel. But it said this panel 
had been removed previously. And this had caused  issues with the internal workings of the 
tablet. Because  the back of the tablet is connected  to these areas,  it would need to fix these 
when it replaced  the back  of the tablet. 
London General  Insurance  said repairs carried out by someone other than it would not be 
authorised and arent covered under the insurance  policy. It believed the evidence of the 
back of the tablet being removed before, indicated that someone had tried to repair  it. And 
because of this it wasnt prepared to repair this damage  as it was excluded from the cover.  
And as a result it wouldnt replace the back of the tablet.
Our investigator looked and Mr H and Ms Bs complaint and said he didnt know who had 
attempted to open the back  of the tablet. But he didnt think this was London General 
Insurance. And if it was someone  else, he felt it was fair for the claim to fix the tablet was 
rejected. He said if damage was caused in transit  then Mr H and Ms B could make a 
complaint to the courier, but he didnt think London General Insurance needed  to do 
anything more.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2018  explaining why I felt the 
complaint should  be upheld.  In summary I was more persuaded by what Mr H and Ms B had 
said about the tablet and its condition  when it was sent to London General Insurance and its 
condition when returned. 
Ref: DRN41485582I felt it was likely the tablet was damaged when being returned or collected by London 
General Insurances  courier. So it was fair that it repaired  this damage, even  though the 
damage wasnt covered  under the policy. 
I didnt think it was clear who had opened  the tablet previously and caused the internal 
damage now identified   but ultimately this wasnt relevant to the complaint. As based  on 
what had been  described as required to fix the external  damage, the internal components  
would need to removed and or replaced  anyway. And if this was the case, I felt it fair London 
General Insurance complete this.
Mr H and Ms B have been without the use of the tablet since the end of 2017.  And as I think  
London General  Insurance  should  be repairing the damage caused when the tablet was in 
its care, it should pay an additional £100.00  to recognise the inconvenience of this loss of 
use.
Mr H and Ms B agreed with my outcome. But said the loss of use of the tablet for this period 
of time has had a significant impact with Mr H having being diagnosed  with a serious illness. 
And he has been inconvenienced  by not having the use of the tablet when undergoing his 
treatment. They also provided copies of the photos  of their tablet taken before it was sent for 
repair and after it was returned.
London General  Insurance  didnt  agree  and raised the following points:
why it took Mr H and Ms B two days to realise  the tablet was damaged  after its return 
and notify London  General Insurance of this damage;
why it took eleven  days for them to realise  there  was an internal fault;
how the back of the tablet  was dented  but no damage to the screen;
and how the internal  damage could have  occurred and not been noticed when the 
tablet was working for a number of years  earlier and was working when its engineers  
assessed it  indicating this could only have  happened when the tablet was returned;
it also provided photographs of how the tablet was packaged when collected and 
returned and photos to show there were visible dents and scratches  on the tablet  
when their engineers  received it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I see no reason to depart from provisional  
decision and will explain why.
I appreciate the comments London  General Insurance have made about the packaging they 
use when tablets are transported. And I agree this does look to be secure  and robust. But I 
dont think this can be taken to show that it isnt possible  damage could happen to items 
when in transit. Or that it isnt possible  for damage to be inflicted to the back  of the tablet and 
not the screen.
Mr H and Ms B explained the following about  why the damage  wasnt reported sooner.  The 
tablet was returned on 21 October 2017  which was a Saturday. Theyve said as they were  
about to leave the house, it wasnt inspected and left still in the packaging.
Ref: DRN41485583Mr H was away from the 22 October  2017  and only turned the tablet on to see if it would, 
with this being a problem  before. It was here he noticed the damage to the back of the tablet. 
But nothing further was noted  as the tablet wasnt used. The complaint was made  about  the 
external damage  the following day, the first working day after the tablet was received.
Mr H returned from his trip on 2 November  2017.  And it was at this point he said he 
discovered the tablet  had the same faults  as before.
Mr H and Ms B have been consistent throughout with their account of whats happened. And 
have provided  photographs they say were taken of the tablet before it was collected and 
after its return. These show the damage  wasnt there before. And based  on the timeline of 
events, I dont think the delays in the external damage being  noted are unreasonable. Im 
persuaded its likely this happened when  the tablet was in the possession of London  General 
Insurance and Mr H and Ms B notified it of this as soon as they became aware.
London General  Insurance  has questioned how the internal damage  could  have happened  
between its engineer assessing  the tablet the first time and it being  returned to them  albeit 
the extent of this test was to turn the tablet on and check  its basic  functionality  it wasnt  
opened and assessed internally.
However, with the external damage likely  happening  when the tablet was in London General 
Insurances care. And with the internal components  needing to be tampered with to fix this, I 
dont think if and when  any other  internal damage  happened has a bearing on what London 
General Insurance needs to do to put things  right.
It has caused damaged  to the back of the tablet. And if this means to fix this, it must  fix the 
internal damage  (attach the wires and components it wouldve had to anyway) then I think  
this is fair. 
It might be that someone else attempted  to fix Mr H and Ms Bs tablet  before  London  
General Insurance did. And this could be when the internal damage occurred. But as London 
General Insurance didnt open  the tablet when  it first inspected this, it cant be confirmed the 
damage was present  before.  And I dont think its fair for it to rely on its exclusion now. 
I understand that Mr H and Ms B have been  inconvenienced with the loss of use of their 
tablet and feel this warrants more than £100.00 to compensate for this. But I havent seen 
that this is something  used on a regular basis. I sympathise that this would have  been  
helpful to have when Mr H has been undergoing his treatment, but I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask London  General Insurance  to pay any more because of this. 
London General  Insurance  said it couldnt agree to settle this claim and this caused delays. 
But I have to bear in mind  this is a relatively  complex case  with there being persuasive 
arguments from both sides  as to why the claim should or shouldnt have been settled and 
the tablet fixed   so I think some  delays were inevitable.
Based on what Ive seen  I think it is fair and reasonable that London  General Insurance  does 
repair the damage to the back Mr Hs tablet. And as Ive said, if this means it needs to repair 
the internal damage in the course of doing  this, I think  its fair this is done. It should also 
make a payment  for £100.00  to Mr H and Ms B to reflect  the inconvenience  of the delays in 
settling this claim.
Ref: DRN41485584my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct London General Insurance  
Company Limited  to settle this as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4148558