K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
In March 2015, Mr M took out a loan of £300 with Lending Stream. It was repayable  in six, 
monthly instalments.  Mr M didnt repay  the loan and I understand that Lending Stream  
passed the debt to a third party.
Mr M says that he wasnt in a financial position  to repay the loan and that Lending Stream 
didnt carry out proper checks before lending to him. He says that at the relevant time, he 
was borrowing from five or six short-term lenders. Mr M says that hes received  threatening 
letters about  repayment of the loan. 
Mr M says that hes been unable to obtain  credit  and its caused him financial difficulty. He 
says he doesnt  want a refund but he does  want  adverse information about the loan removed 
from his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ms complaint.  She didnt  think  that Lending  Stream 
was wrong to lend to Mr M.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. He didnt understand how she could reach that 
conclusion in this case when his other complaints against other lenders had been upheld. 
The adjudicator explained that in this case, Lending Stream wasnt  required to ask Mr M 
about his other short-term  lending commitments. 
Mr M didnt  accept this complaint was different from his other complaints against  other  
lenders and asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint, so it was referred  to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN47229212the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr M could sustainably repay this loan  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
I understand that Mr M wanted  to discuss  the case with me. I dont think thats appropriate. It 
would, in effect, give Mr M a one-sided personal hearing to press his case  directly without 
Lending Stream being involved or being able to contribute to or counter what  was said.  On 
the rare occasions we conduct a direct  hearing, its at the discretion of an ombudsman, 
solely because its essential to reach  a fair outcome and both parties  to the complaint  are 
present. Anything else would be procedurally unfair and introduce  the risk of bias. Im 
satisfied I can deal fairly with this complaint  based  on the evidence on file from all parties. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
When Mr M applied for this loan, he told Lending  Stream that his monthly income was 
£1,900 and his monthly  expenditure was £150. Lending Stream  revised  Mr Ms expenditure 
upwards to £511, which left him with a disposable  income of £1,389. The highest repayment 
for the loan was £132. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream  to conclude  
that Mr M could afford to repay  this loan. 
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr M for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr M provided or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate for it 
to start verifying what Mr M said. 
Ref: DRN47229213Mr M has referred to his other complaints against  short-term lenders. Each case is decided  
on its own merits. Where  theres a chain made up of a number of loans  with the same 
lender, there may come a point where  wed expect  the lender to verify what the prospective  
borrower says about his finances. That wasnt the case  here. This was Mr Ms one and only 
loan with Lending Stream. He had no lending history  with this lender. Against that 
background, I think Lending  Stream was entitled  to rely on what Mr M said about his 
finances at the time he took out the loan.  
 
On the credit  report Mr M has provided, I cant see that Lending Stream has recorded 
adverse information  about this loan but as Mr M didnt repay the loan, Lending  Stream would 
have been entitled to record  relevant information  about that. Based on what Ive seen, there 
are no grounds on which to direct Lending  Stream to remove  any adverse information it may 
have recorded.  
Mr M says that hes received threatening letters about repayment. Hes provided  a copy  of 
letter he received from the third party  business to whom Lending Stream passed the debt. 
So, any complaint  about that should  be directed to that third party in the first instance.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but there  are no grounds on which to uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4722921