K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that until recently, Mr H (along with another party) held 
with Barclays Bank  UK PLC. The property that secured the mortgage  was sold in 2018, and 
the mortgage redeemed. The complaint is that Barclays mis-handled  the redemption  
resulting in delays,  a dispute over the amount required to settle  the debt, and the payment  of 
funds to the account after closure that then had to be refunded.
Everythings now been put right, but Mr H is seeking compensation for the time, trouble and 
upset all this caused him. Barclays  offered £500,  but hes seeking a higher amount. 
Background
When the case came to us, the adjudicator who looked into it thought Barclays  offer was fair 
and recommended Mr H accept it in settlement of the complaint. Mr H asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
I have looked  at the case previously, when  deciding whether we should continue to consider 
the complaint  under  our rules when only one of two joint borrowers had brought  it. Thats 
why some of the above narrative will look familiar to Mr H and Barclays. My decision on that 
was that it was safe for us to consider this particular complaint and decide  it on the merits. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont have to decide if Barclays made  
mistakes; its common ground  that it did. Nor do I have to decide  what steps Barclays  should 
take to remedy those mistakes. As I said in the introduction,  everything  has already been  put 
right. All there is for me to decide  is whether Barclays has paid Mr H enough compensation 
for his time, trouble  and upset, or whether more  is warranted.
Barclays has paid Mr H £500; Mr H has said it should refund the early repayment charge 
(ERC) that was applied  when  the mortgage  was redeemed; that was close to £1,400. Ive 
thought carefully  about that, and Im afraid Ive some disappointing  news for Mr H. The ERC 
arose from a term in the mortgage contract; it was fairly and reasonably  due, didnt amount 
to a financial loss, and it cant simply be set aside because the bank mis-handled the 
transaction that gave rise to it. 
For me to award an equivalent sum in compensation, it would have to be because I 
considered the distress  and inconvenience (i.e. non-financial loss) Mr H experienced was 
sufficiently severe that it warranted a payment of that size. Taking account of the wider 
circumstances, and the general level of award  we typically make, I dont find that to be the 
case. I find that the £500 Barclays has already paid to be fair redress. Had no payment 
already been made, I wouldnt award more.
my final decision
Insofar as I dont consider Barclays need to anything further,  my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Ref: DRN46585722Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4658572