K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the performance  of the with-profits  investment bond  he has with 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. In particular he questioned the movement in the bid-price 
for the Cash  fund in his bond  as compared to the movement in the switch-in price  for units  in 
the AV Distribution fund between  9 June 2018 and 9 December 2018.
background
Aviva acknowledged  the complaint on 21 December 2018  but didnt then provide a final 
response. Mr H referred his complaint to us in the absence of a response on 
4 February 2019.  We contacted Aviva which then provided a final response dated 
9 May 2019.  It said that Mr H had previously complained about the performance of the bond,  
and that had been referred to our service and was awaiting an ombudsman  decision. 
It said that when  Mr H complained on 15 December 2019 he had been given a separate 
complaint reference  but it had then dealt  with the complaint under the previous complaint 
reference and closed the new complaint. It sent a cheque for £100 for not having  responded 
to this complaint  sooner.
One of our investigators  thought Avivas  offer of £100 wasnt enough as it hadnt  provided 
the information Mr H wanted about the difference between the switch-in  price of units  and 
the bid-price of units in the bond within its final response of 9 May 2019. He said that Aviva 
had since provided  an explanation of the difference which  he didnt think he could elaborate  
on.
Given the delay  in answering Mr Hs query about  the difference  in price the investigator 
thought Aviva should pay a further £100 to Mr H. The investigator didnt think any further 
amount should  be awarded in relation to Avivas failure to provide a response to the 
complaint when it shouldve done  as Mr H had still been able to refer his complaint to us.
Aviva responded and said it accepted  the investigators opinion  but Mr H said he didnt. He 
referred to the fact his complaint was made to Aviva on 15 December 2018  and the 
investigators opinion  was received on 25 November 2019. He also queried whether  there  
had been some confusion because he had raised  two complaints and had rejected Avivas 
offer of £100 in respect of one complaint.
The investigator explained that, although Mr H had signed two separate  complaint forms, the 
matters raised were the same and were  dealt with as one complaint with everything being 
reviewed by him together.  He explained that the £100 he had said Aviva should pay was in 
addition to the £100 offered by it previously.
As Mr H didnt  agree with the investigator the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of complaints to Aviva  about  his investments over the past couple 
of years which have been  referred to our service.  This includes a complaint made  in June 
2018 about the performance of his bond  which was referred to us previously. 
Ref: DRN45007452Aviva accepts it didnt provide a response to this complaint when  it shouldve  done, because  
it dealt with the complaint under the original complaint reference. It has offered £100 for the 
delay in responding to this complaint.
But its final response letter of 9 May 2019 didnt actually provide information about why there  
had been a much larger  movement in the switch-in  price of units in the AV Distribution fund 
in the bond compared  to the bid-price of units in the Cash fund between June 2018  and 
December 2018.  This wasnt something that he had raised in his previous complaint, so 
wasnt something that was dealt  with by that complaint.
It was only after the investigator pointed this out and asked Aviva to provide this information 
that it then confirmed that the AV Distribution  fund is riskier than the Cash fund and so will 
fluctuate more  in price  and that this is why the switch-in price of units  in the AV Distribution 
fund changed  much more than the bid-price of units in the Cash  fund. Im satisfied this 
explains the difference between the two prices and I have seen no evidence  that the pricing 
is wrong.
Aviva made no offer with regard to the delay in providing this explanation.  Its final response 
letter of 9 May 2019 only offered £100  for the delay in responding to the complaint, it didnt 
actually provide the explanation I have set out above. It was several months later,  after the 
investigator had chased  for its file of papers and made further enquiries, that it confirmed this 
as the reason for the difference in pricing.
Mr H has suffered no financial loss as a result  of this information not being provided sooner  
but I think he was caused  some  distress and inconvenience. I agree with the investigator  
that an amount  of £100  in addition to the £100  previously offered by Aviva for the delayed 
response to the complaint  is a reasonable amount for Aviva  to pay for not providing  the 
information Mr H wanted about the pricing of units  in his bond.
I note the second  complaint form Mr H completed dated 16 May 2019 which referred  to the 
delay in providing a response to his complaint of 15 December 2018, and the inadequacy of 
the final response letter dated  9 May 2019. This is not a separate complaint but part of this 
complaint as the investigator explained.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
has to pay a total of £200, including the £100  it has previously offered, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45007453
Ref: DRN4500745