K820x#14complaint
Mr As complained about the way Gefion  Insurance A/S dealt with a claim on his private hire 
vehicle insurance  policy.
background
Mr A reported a claim to Gefion after his car was vandalised. Gefion thought  Mr As car had 
been hit by another vehicle. Because of this it passed the claim  to an accident  management  
company to deal with repairs and claim the costs  back from the insurer of the third party 
whod damaged his car. The accident management  company arranged for an engineer  to 
inspect Mr As car.
The third partys insurer didnt accept fault for what had happened,  so the accident  
management company  passed the claim back to Gefion.  Gefion  considered the engineers  
report and didnt think the damage to the car was consistent with the incident Mr A reported. 
It said if Mr A wanted to claim it would be treated as four separate claims as there were four 
separate areas of damage.
Mr A complained to our service as he was unhappy  that Gefion hadnt settled his claim. He 
said the third party  had vandalised his car using a knife and another object which might 
explain the differences in the damaged areas. He also complained  that Gefion hadnt offered 
him a renewal when  his policy  lapsed  and that his no-claims discount (NCD) had been 
affected. He was also unhappy  that he hadnt been able to get through to Gefion to discuss  
what was happening.  Mr A wanted  to Gefion to pay his claim and compensate  him for his 
lost earnings, as a result  of not being able to use his car.
Gefion maintained that the damage should  be treated as four separate claims,  as it didnt 
think Mr A had been able to explain  how his car had been damaged in one incident. It said it 
hadnt offered  him a renewal as the claims were  open at the time. However,  as Mr A hadnt 
claimed, these were now closed as notification only. It said if Mr A no longer  wished  to claim 
his NCD would be restored.
Our investigator thought Gefion had handled  Mr As claim reasonably. He thought Gefions 
decision to say there were  four separate incidents was reasonable based  on the engineers 
photos. And he didnt  think hed seen  any evidence to show Gefion failed to respond to      
Mr As contact.  He also thought Gefion had been fair in not offering renewal  to Mr A, as it 
had shown it wouldnt have offered  cover  to anyone else in the same circumstances.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said 
Gefion hadnt  tried to get any evidence from the police even though hed provided the police  
reference number.  He said Gefion also hadnt  tried to contact the witness.  
Ref: DRN41581562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A is also unhappy with the actions of the accident management company. 
However, in this decision I can only consider what Gefion might, or might not, have done wrong. 
Mr As policy  covers  his car for damage. And in making a claim its for him to show how the 
damage happened. Ive listened  to the call where  Mr A reported the incident and he said the 
third party hit his car as she was trying to park. Mr A later said the third party came out of her 
house carrying a knife, but it wasnt clear that this statement was in relation to how the 
damage happened. 
Ive seen photos of the damage provided by the engineer. And having  looked at them carefully, 
I think Gefions view that the scratches  seem most likely to have been caused by Mr As car 
hitting another  object  is reasonable. I say this because theyre similar to other areas of damage 
Ive seen that have been  caused by a car hitting  another car or other hard object. 
I understand Mr As frustration that Gefion didnt ask for the police report  or witness statement. 
Gefion said it didnt  think it needed  it, as while it might show  there was vandalism its unlikely it 
would have detailed  all the areas  of damage. I accept that the police report  is unlikely to have 
explained all of the damage. And I can see that the accident management company tried to 
get a witness  statement,  but the witness didnt respond. So, ultimately  I think  it was reasonable 
for Gefion  to say Mr A couldnt claim for all the damage as one incident.  
I understand Gefions  said if Mr A wanted  to claim for the scratch  on the window and the 
damage to the tyres, it can treat it as one incident. That seems fair in the circumstances as 
this is consistent  with Mr As account of what happened.  
As the claim was still open on Mr As record when he came to renew his policy  his NCD was 
affected. While I can see this would  have been frustrating for Mr A, it seems he did still want  
to claim, so I think its reasonable that the claim was still open. I understand as Mr A didnt  
ultimately claim these have been  closed as notification only and his NCD has been restored. 
This is what  I would  have expected to have happened. So, Im not going to ask Gefion to do 
anything differently. 
I appreciate Mr A was unhappy that Gefion  didnt offer him a renewal. But its for Gefion to 
decide which risks it wants to cover. Its shown me evidence  that it wouldnt have offered a 
policy to anyone in the same  circumstances. So, dont I dont think it did anything wrong in 
refusing to renew Mr As policy. 
I understand Mr A feels that Gefion didnt respond to him when  hes tried to get in touch. I 
can see Mr A contacted the accident  management company. But thats a separate  company 
to Gefion. Gefion said it spoke to Mr A in January 2019 to let him know he would need  to 
make four separate  claims, if he wanted  to claim for all the damage,  but didnt hear back 
from him. I havent seen  anything from Mr A to show he got in touch with Gefion again or to 
persuade me Gefion  didnt respond to him.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Gefions acted fairly and reasonably, so Im not going to ask it to 
do anything differently. 
Ref: DRN41581563my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4158156