K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough  to help them  when they 
were the victims of a scam.
Although Mr and Mrs H have a joint account with HSBC,  for ease of reading, Ill mostly only 
refer to Mrs H. 
background
Its accepted that Mrs H was scammed, so Ill refer to the third party involved as a scammer  
throughout. The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill 
only provide a summary here.
In July 2018 Mrs H received an email invoice in relation to school fees for her children.  She 
then sent two payments (one for each child)  totalling  £16,676 from her joint account with 
HSBC to the account details provided in the email. This was done through her online 
banking. 
Later the same day Mrs H received contact from the school  which said their emails had been 
hacked. It transpired that a scammer had either  sent or altered the emails and included  their 
own account details.  Mrs H believed  she was paying the school, but her payments had gone 
to the scammers account with bank T. 
At 5.30pm Mrs H told HSBC shed  been the victim of a scam and asked that they do all they 
could to recover the funds. Mrs H also contacted T directly herself the following morning to 
try to aid recovery  of her funds. The following table provides  a summary of the key events 
relevant to this complaint. 
Date & Time Payment Type & 
MethodAmount Event
24 July 2018
9.37amBill Payment via 
online banking. £8,388 Payment  to 
scammers account.
24 July 2018
9.38amBill Payment via 
online banking.£8,388 Payment  to  
scammers account.
24 July 2018 
5.30pmN/A N/A Mrs H contacts  
HSBC  notifying them 
payments are as a 
result  of a scam.
25 July 2018
09.47amN/A N/A Mrs H contacts  T 
directly to report the 
scam.
25 July 2018
9.48amN/A N/A HSBC contact T to 
report the scam. 
Mrs H complained, she didnt think HSBC had done  enough to try to recover  the funds shed 
sent to the scammer. HSBC responded and shared that the vast majority of the funds were  
removed from the scammers account before Mrs H had reported  the matter.  They  also said 
that T had a backlog at the time.  As such, they said even if theyd notified  T straight away,  it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the amount that was recovered. Ultimately just over £500 
was recovered  from the scammers account  with T and returned to Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN42432122The complaint was referred  to our service and one of our investigators thought it should be 
upheld. She concluded that the second  payment of £8,388 coming  so soon after the first was 
sufficiently unusual to reasonably expect  HSBC to have intervened.  She thought if that had 
happened, the scam would have  been  discovered  and a further loss would have been 
prevented. 
Mrs H accepted our investigators outcome, but HSBC disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. In November  2020 I issued a provisional decision in 
which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time
It isnt in dispute that Mrs H went online and gave  her instructions to send two payments, 
each for £8,338, from her joint account to the account detailed  in the scammers email. So 
the starting point is that HSBC should  follow that instruction unless there are objective 
reasons why they ought to have  had concerns that Mrs H might be at risk of financial harm.  
Whilst £16,676 in total is a large sum of money, Ive considered whether or not the 
instruction to pay this amount (spread across  two consecutive payments) represented 
unusual or suspicious  activity in relation to the account. What can be considered unusual 
clearly requires reference to the common activity on an account. Ive looked back  at the 
account statements  as far as 2015  to assess this. 
The account  maintained a healthy credit balance which  was typically  several thousand 
pounds and on occasions went over £100,000. It was also quite common for large  sums to 
leave the account via various methods. This included  debit card payments, internal transfers 
and online bill payments  to other accounts.  
Amongst these payments  were:
A debit  card payment for around £9,500 earlier in July 2018;
An internal  transfer for around £10,000  in late June 2018;
A bill payment for around £15,000  also in June 2018;
A debit  card payment for around £20,000  in April 2018;
A bill payment for over £24,000  in December 2017.
Prior to making the scam payments Mrs H transferred funds into the account. This was a 
fairly common occurrence in the operation of the account. There  are numerous examples of 
money being transferred in from elsewhere  prior to large withdrawals or payments being 
made. I dont  think this would have  appeared unusual  to HSBC.
I appreciate that the scam payments  were  to a new payee and that the second was only a 
minute after the first. But even taking that into account, I cant  fairly say that the payment 
instructions Mrs H provided ought to have stood out as unusual,  out of character or 
suspicious. I wouldnt reasonably expect HSBC  to intervene in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN42432123And as Mrs H didnt speak to or interact  with HSBCs staff at the time of the payment, I cant  
see that HSBC missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being  made  in relation to 
a scam.
However, Ive gone on to consider how HSBC  responded to Mrs H notifying them of the 
fraud. Unfortunately, due to the passage  of time, a call recording is no longer available.  But 
we do know from HSBCs systems that the call took place at 5.30pm on 24 July 2018.
I consider it to be good industry practice  (both  currently and at the time relevant to this 
complaint) for banks to have systems  in place  to allow 24 hour a day reporting of fraud. Its 
very common for scammers to quickly try to withdraw fraudulently  obtained funds  but 
HSBC didnt contact  T until the following  morning.
Generally, Id expect  HSBC to respond  immediately  to a notification of fraud.  I can accept 
that there  might be a short  period  of time for the necessary processes to be complied with, to 
hear their customers account of what had happened and for the required documentation to 
be prepared and sent. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I think  HSBC  ought to 
have contacted T far sooner than they did. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  failure to act promptly, would have made a 
difference to the amount of Mrs Hs funds that were recovered. Its also unclear as to 
whether it was HSBCs contact or the direct  contact made by Mrs H that caused T to block 
the scammers account. I dont think this makes a difference as the contact from Mrs H and 
HSBC took place at effectively  the same time. The notes from T show that they received the 
call from Mrs H at 9.47am  and HSBC have evidenced they contacted T at 9.48am.
The evidence from T shows  that by 5.30pm on 24 July 2018 £10,250 of the £16,676 had 
already been withdrawn  or transferred out of the scammers  account.  There  were then 
further payments  made out of the scammers account, these  were  £3,450  at 6.00pm and 
£2,450 at 7.46pm.  
Ive thought carefully about how long I think it reasonably  ought  to have taken HSBC to have  
informed T of the scam. Mrs H would have needed to have  passed  security clearance and to 
have given her version of what  had happened to HSBCs call handler. And whilst  I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to complete  a full investigation at that stage, I would expect them to take 
reasonable steps to confirm and validate  what Mrs H was saying. 
The call handler would  then need to complete the relevant documentation  and forward this 
on to T. Once with T, the documentation would need to be reviewed and the appropriate 
action taken. T have told us that (on 25 July 2018) they blocked the beneficiary account  
within 15 minutes of being  notified  of the fraud.  So, Ive no reason to doubt  that a similar  
timescale would  have been involved had they been  notified on 24 July 2018  (as I think they 
ought to have been). 
I dont accept HSBCs argument that a late notification made no difference due to a backlog  
T were  experiencing  at the time.  I accept that Ts investigation took some  time and that isnt 
something HSBC are responsible for. But they did promptly block  the scammers account,  so 
even if it took them  a while to investigate, further loss had been prevented by the blocking of 
the account. 
Ref: DRN42432124I dont think I could  reasonably have expected the actions Ive detailed  above to have been  
completed within 30 minutes of Mrs Hs call. Particularly as this is from the first connection of 
the call between Mrs H and HSBC.  So, I dont think the 6.00pm payment from the 
scammers account would have been  prevented  even if HSBC  had acted sooner.
I do however think that the payment for £2,450 which occurred at 7.46pm could have been 
prevented  had HSBC  informed T sooner. I think over two hours from the initial  call is 
sufficient time for this to have taken  place. I therefore think its fair that HSBC  pay 
Mrs H this amount and that 8% simple interest (yearly) be added to compensate for being 
without that money.  This should be calculated  between the date Mrs H received the payment 
of around £500  that was recovered from T and the date of settlement. 
I understand that Mrs H was also unhappy with the amount of time it took to get an answer 
from HSBC in relation  to the fraud. But I can see that HSBC were  chasing this appropriately 
with T. So, I dont think HSBC are responsible for poor service  beyond the initial  delay in 
notifying T. HSBC were  dependant  on Ts investigation and I cant  fairly ask HSBC  to 
compensate Mrs H for delays they werent  responsible for.
For the reasons  outlined  above but subject to any further information and evidence I receive 
from either Mr and Mrs H or HSBC, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part. 
I intend to direct that HSBC UK Bank  Plc:
Pay Mr and Mrs H £2,450;
Add to this amount 8% simple  interest (yearly) between the date of the initial  
recovery crediting their account and the date of settlement.
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs H made some further points  which Ill 
address below. Now both parties  have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with 
my decision.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs H says that HSBC did contact Mr H on the day to verify the transactions. And whilst the 
payment was from a joint account, it was instructed by her. So, contacting Mr H rather than 
Mrs H resulted in a missed opportunity to identify the scam.  She points out that the 
payments were sent one after the other but the second arrived  in the beneficiary  account 
several hours after the first. She says this delay supports that there  was some intervention 
by HSBC, otherwise  the payment would also have gone through straight  away.
I shared this with HSBC  who said that no contact was made,  and whilst they didnt question 
Mrs Hs integrity,  they suggested she could be mistaken  and highlighted that they did make  
contact about  an unrelated  payment  the previous month. I went  back to HSBC  and asked 
that they double check this against all the numbers they hold for Mr and Mrs H and they still 
had no record of any contact. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that HSBC  didnt  contact Mr H about the 
payments relevant to this scam. Where there are conflicting accounts, I have to make a 
judgement on the available  evidence  and here,  Im more persuaded by HSBCs searches of 
Ref: DRN42432125their records. Had a call been made,  I think its more  likely than not that there would have 
been a record  of this (as there  is in relation to the unrelated payment from June 2018). And 
on occasions some payments take longer to arrive than others, so I dont think  this shows  
that HSBC had intervened.  
So, given Im persuaded that there was no interaction in relation to the payments, and my 
provisional decision concluded they werent  so unusual that I could reasonably expect  HSBC  
to intervene, I see no reason to deviate  from the outcome explained in my provisional  
decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay Mr and Mrs H £2,450;
Add to this amount 8% simple  interest (yearly) between the date of the initial  
recovery crediting their account and the date of settlement. 
Any tax lawfully due on the interest  may be deducted if needs be, with HSBC  providing  a tax 
deduction certificate on request so Mr and Mrs H can claim it back  from HMRC  if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4243212