K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc blocked her account and then didnt inform  her when it 
had removed those  restrictions.
 
background
Miss B opened an account with TSB in 2010.  On 15 December  2018  her friend transferred 
£6000 into her account. Some of that money was to help with some wedding  expenses as 
Miss B was due to get married abroad later that month. Immediately after the money 
credited Miss Bs account she tried to make a debit card payment  for almost £3000. But TSB 
blocked her account.  
Miss B spoke with TSB to query why her payment  had been declined  and, after,  she 
confirmed she had made the payment  it unblocked  her account.  She said she passed 
security during this call. But when she attempted to make the debit card transaction  a 
second time it was declined.
Miss B said she tried to call TSB a further four times  to query why her payment had been 
declined again  but her call was disconnected  each time. When she was able to speak with 
TSB she said she spent almost two hours on the phone, which  she found inconvenient and 
frustrating. During this call she was asked to attend  a branch in order  to provide proof of 
where the £6000  that had credited her account had come from.
Miss B wasnt happy about this. But TSB said the block that had initially been placed  on Miss 
Bs account had alerted its fraud team and this prompted a decision to review the account. it 
said this was the reason Miss B was asked to provide proof  of entitlement  to the money that 
had credited her account on 15 December. 
TSB said the block on Miss Bs account  was removed on 23 January 2019. This was after it 
had completed its investigation and seen  proof  of entitlement of the funds that had credited 
Miss Bs account in December the previous year. But Miss B said TSB didnt inform her that 
it reinstated her account. So she wasnt aware  the restrictions  had been  removed. 
Miss B complained to TSB about  what happened. But she said TSB didnt respond to her 
complaint. So she referred her complaint  to our service. She said not being  able to access  
her money or use her account  had caused  considerable inconvenience  to her. She told our 
service that while  her account was restricted direct debits were  unpaid. And she was unable 
to pay wedding expenses  or purchase the wedding dress she had planned to buy, which  
meant she had to buy a replacement  dress  elsewhere. Miss B said this all led to her having 
to borrow money from a family member who had to arrange  a loan in order  to assist her. And 
she also said she had to visit a branch  twice  in order to prove the source of the funds.
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint  but they didnt think TSB had made an error  
in placing a block on Miss Bs account or telling  her that she would need to visit her branch 
to prove  the source of the funds. After she referred her complaint to our service TSB offered 
£100 as a goodwill gesture TSB to recognise the service issues Miss B had experienced. 
Our investigator thought this offer was reasonable. But Miss B didnt agree and asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN47322222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear about the difficulties 
Miss B experienced while trying to access her money. I can appreciate that this caused her 
distress and inconvenience and that it must  have  been deeply  upsetting  that she wasnt able 
to use the funds in her account to pay wedding expenses that she needed to pay. 
But, what I must determine here is whether  TSB acted fairly  and reasonably here. The first 
part of Miss Bs complaint is about  TSBs decision to block her account. So, Ill focus on that 
issue first.
The starting point  is that TSB should  follow its customers requests, unless theres good 
reason not to. Here, while Miss B had the funds available in her account to cover  the debit 
card transaction she wanted to make, TSB declined it due to fraud prevention concerns.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Where a bank suspects fraud it must take positive action on a 
customers behalf. Preventing fraud  is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To 
do so a bank may restrict an account if it has concerns over the source  of funds received 
into it. 
I understand that when TSB blocked Miss Bs account it was an inconvenient and frustrating 
experience  especially given that the funds were  legitimated deposited into her account  and 
that she needed to use them. But I think that TSB had legitimate concerns it needed to 
address with Miss B. I say this because a large  amount of money was deposited into her 
account and the transaction she had attempted was for almost half of that sum. 
I can understand why this may have triggered  concern with TSB. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to request proof  of entitlement of the funds and undertake a review  of her 
account in those circumstances. Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for TSB to keep the 
account restricted until the review had been  completed and Miss B had provided the proof of 
entitlement that it had requested.
The terms and conditions  that apply to Miss Bs account set out in plain  and intelligible 
language the circumstances in which TSB can stop a customer  using their card or restrict 
their access  to their account. Miss B couldnt have opened her account without agreeing to 
those terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied she ought to have  known about  them.
TSB says it had concerns relating to fraud, which is listed  within  the terms of the account as 
one of the categories whereby it may restrict a customers  use of their account. With that in 
mind Im satisfied that when TSB declined the debit card payment and restricted Miss Bs 
ability to use her account it acted in line with the terms and conditions of her account. So, I 
cant fairly say it made an error here. And this means that I cant  consider any claim Miss B 
says she has for losses arising from the action it took.
But where I think TSB could have  done things better was during the calls Miss B made. This 
relates to the second part of Miss Bs complaint which is about the service issues she 
experienced. She spent a long time on the telephone. And she wasnt  informed that the 
restrictions on her account had been removed.  I think she should have been. And I dont 
think it was right for her to find out her account was no longer restricted when she received 
an automated message  confirming that a direct debit had been  paid.  
Ref: DRN47322223TSB has already acknowledged it could have handled calls with Miss B and responded to 
her complaint better.  It offered to compensate  her £100 to recognise  the poor customer 
experience she had. Miss B rejected this offer. Its clear she doesnt think  this amount 
adequately reflects  her inconvenience  and experience. And she doesnt think it reflects the 
fact that she wasnt informed that the restrictions on her account had been removed. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the compensation offer made here is fair given what 
happened. Ive already said I cant consider losses caused by TSBs decision to restrict Miss 
Bs account because  I dont think it made  an error in taking that decision. But I can consider 
the impact of the service issues Miss B encountered during the calls she made to TSB and 
the fact that she wasnt informed  that her account had been reinstated.
I understand that Miss B isnt happy  with the way in which TSB deal with her complaint.  She 
had to make  several  calls to establish the reason why her payment was declined. And she 
says that TSB didnt  issue a final response to her complaint before she referred it to our 
service. I can understand how this all caused frustration and inconvenience. But in April 
2019 TSB migrated to a new IT platform, which caused a number of service issues.  It led to 
a high volume of complaints and a backlog, which explains  why there were delays in how 
TSB dealt  with her complaint.
Having thought about those issues I think the £100  compensation its already offered to pay 
adequately recognises the service issues Miss B experienced and the trouble and upset  she 
was caused. Its in line with award  made  by our service in comparable scenarios. And Im 
satisfied it takes into account the overall circumstances of what happened. 
I understand Miss B feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint. But I wont 
be directing TSB to pay anymore that the amount its already offered to resolve  Miss Bs 
complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that TSB Bank plc 
should pay Miss B the £100 it offered to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4732222