K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr C complains about  Santander  UK Plc (Santander) regarding Santanders 
decision to accept information about, and then to close the accounts of, the late Mr C from a 
third party. The administrator of his estate brings the complaint to us and is concerned that 
the third party  has been given information  relating to the estate and Mr Cs accounts.
She wants Santander to apologise, to confirm the process that was gone  through  and the 
identity of the third party, and to pay her compensation for her distress  and inconvenience.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
issued in April 2020. A copy  of that decision is attached. 
In that decision,  I explained that I understood the concerns raised  by Mr Cs administrator, 
and appreciated  that the situation had been very distressing for her. 
I explained, however,  that this service is unable  to help her in the way that she wants 
because of the powers of this service. For those  reasons I did not, provisionally,  uphold the 
complaint. 
That provisional decision has been  shared with the parties for their comments.
Santander has responded setting  out that it has nothing  further  to add. 
Mr Cs administrator has responded setting out that she disagrees with my view,  and making  
some further  submissions. 
She has indicated  that she thinks Santander was wrong to either  accept instructions from 
another person to close the account,  or that it should not have closed the accounts without 
giving proper notice  to the estate.  She also feels that it is likely that information was given to 
the third party  which  should not have been.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have previously indicated, I have  great  sympathy for Mr Cs administrator, who I accept 
has been caused substantial distress by the third party approaching Santander. It is clear 
that Mr Cs administrator feels strongly  that the third party was wrong to provide  Santander  
with the interim death certificate and that, by providing this, they have  interfered  with her role 
in administering  the estate. 
She has also indicated  that she feels that Santander  should  make a goodwill gesture  to her 
to reflect  her upset. 
As I set out, the ombudsman service  has limited powers to award  compensation in the case 
of a deceased person. We cannot award  compensation  for distress and inconvenience, and 
can only consider  making an award to reflect any financial loss suffered by the estate. This 
does not include  losses by the administrators or executors. 
Ref: DRN42908692In this case, I have  seen  no evidence of any loss or damage to the estate itself, and so I am 
unable to make any award  of compensation. 
Similarly, I am unable to arbitrate the dispute over information, but I have not seen any 
evidence that Santander gave out information to the third party, rather than simply received 
information from them. 
For these reasons, I maintain my provisional view and adopt that decision and reasoning as 
my final decision. 
I understand that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr Cs administrator, but I hope it 
explains why I have  reached it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I do not uphold the estate of 
Mr Cs complaint, and I do not ask Santander UK Plc to do anything  further,  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4290869