K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company  SA-NV  didnt tell him when it 
halved the benefit under his accidental death  travel  policy. Hes also unhappy that it didnt 
also halve the premium. 
background
Mr P took out the policy in 1993, which covered  him and his wife. The aim of the policy was 
to pay a lump sum benefit in the event of death  as a result of a private motor vehicle, 
pedestrian or passenger accident.  The policy was annually  renewable.  
Mr P found  out that the benefit under the policy halved after an insured person reached  age 
65. Mr P complained  to CIGNA as he said it didnt make him aware at the relevant date that 
the benefit had halved. He thought the premium  should  also have been halved. CIGNA  didnt 
uphold his complaint, so he brought  the matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said it was up to CIGNA 
what premium  it charged, and he didnt think Mr P had been treated unfairly.
Mr P has asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This complaint is two-fold. First of all, Mr P is unhappy that CIGNA didnt tell him when he 
and his wife reached  age 65 that their benefit  would be halved. Hes also unhappy that it 
didnt halve the premium at the same time as the benefit. Ill address each in turn. 
CIGNA didnt tell Mr P that the benefit had halved
I dont know how the policy  was sold, however the policy  terms make  it clear that when an 
insured person reaches  age 65 the benefit  will halve. 
I see that Mr P requested a copy of the policy terms in 2015.  CIGNA says they were sent to 
him, but Mr P says he didnt receive them.  As Mr P was simultaneously dealing with CIGNA 
over a separate administrative issue, he explains  he didnt notice that he hadnt received the 
policy terms. 
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr P didnt receive a copy of the policy terms in 2015, its still the 
case that the policy allows CIGNA to halve the benefit when an insured person reaches age 
65.
I see that Mr P initially took out £100,000 of cover in 1993 and that this increased by 5% 
each year. Ive looked at the annual renewal documents that Mr P has provided, and until 
2017, they are set out in the same way. They  say the level of cover is £100,000. However, 
the covering letter explains that the level of cover  is protected against inflation. It then says 
the benefits are higher than the amounts shown in the policy documents, and each year the 
covering letter states the relevant percentage above  this. For example, in 2015, the covering 
Ref: DRN44931312letter said that Mr Ps benefit was 110%  higher than the amount shown (of £100,000). In 
other words, he had £210,000 of cover.  
Mr P turned 65 in 2016. The next renewal  documents  again said he had £100,000 of cover. 
The covering  letter said that his benefit was 115% higher than the amount shown (of 
£100,000). In other words, he had £215,000  of cover. That wasnt  correct, since Mr Ps 
benefit had halved by that point as hed reached age 65. His actual  level of cover  at this time 
was in fact £107,500.
However, I see that from 2017, CIGNA  changed the format of the renewal documents. They  
no longer said that the benefit was a certain  percentage  higher than that shown in the policy  
documents. Instead they included a table of benefits  which  set out the actual amounts of 
benefit for each insured person. The 2017  renewal  information confirmed that Mr P and his 
wife both had £110,000  of cover at that time.  This was correct. Mr P renewed his cover on 
that basis. 
Im therefore  satisfied Mr P would  have understood in 2017 how much cover he and his wife 
had under the policy. Given  that he went ahead with the 2017 renewal, I think  its likely he 
would have done the same in 2016, if CIGNA  had made it clear how much  cover he had at 
this time. 
Mr P makes  the point  that his wife turned  65 a few years before him, and he wasnt aware 
that her benefit had halved at the time.  
The pre-2017 renewal  documents  only referred  to Mr Ps level of cover.  Thats because he 
was the main policyholder. Unfortunately, they werent particularly detailed and focused  
mainly on the renewal premium. However,  they did say that the policy  booklet should  be 
referred to for more information about the cover  provided. I dont think that the lack of 
information in the renewal  documents about Mr Ps wifes cover meant that CIGNA misled 
Mr P about  this. The documents needed to be read in conjunction with the policy, and the 
policy made it clear that an insured persons benefit halved  at age 65.
Mr P thinks  CIGNA should have  halved his premium  when it halved his benefit
We generally take the view that its up to an insurer to decide on the price  of its policies. 
Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its internal 
guidelines, its an area in which we dont  normally interfere.
The policy was annually renewable, and CIGNA chose to charge a certain premium for the 
policy each year. This price was set out in the renewal documents, and Mr P had the choice 
over whether  or not to go ahead with the renewal based on the price CIGNA  was charging. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Ps frustration  that his benefit was halved, but his premium  
wasnt, ultimately, it was up to CIGNA how much it wished to charge for the cover.  It was 
then up to Mr P to decide if the policy represented good value for money.  
Ive accepted that CIGNA gave Mr P incorrect information about  his level of cover in the 
policy year after he turned 65. However,  he was given the correct information  about his 
cover in 2017, and chose  to continue with the renewal. If he hadnt done  so, I may have 
required CIGNA  to return his premium for the 2016 policy year.  But Mr P was happy to 
continue with the 2017 renewal knowing how much cover he and his wife held at the time 
and the premium CIGNA  wished to charge for this. Although I understand Mr P has now 
Ref: DRN44931313cancelled his policy as he had similar cover  elsewhere, I see no reason  to now require 
CIGNA to return any of his premiums.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4493131