K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited refused a claim she 
made on her pet insurance and applied exclusions to the policy, backdated to when it was 
taken out.
background
Ms M has a pet dog which  shes insured  with Red Sands under a lifetime policy since 
December 2016.
In early 2018, Ms M took the dog to the vets because of problems with its ear and with the 
skin on its feet. The vet provided treatment for allergies and Ms M claimed for the cost of the 
treatment.
Red Sands  looked  into the claim,  including  looking  at the dogs full medical history. It said 
that the dog had first shown symptoms of allergies and related  conditions in September  
2016, before  the policy was taken out. It therefore refused the claim as being related to a 
pre-existing condition. And it said that Ms M hadnt  declared the condition  when she took out 
the policy. If shed  done so, it would have excluded claims related to skin, ear and allergic 
issues. So it applied those  exclusions to the policy, backdated to when it was taken out in 
December 2016.
Ms M complained. She said it wasnt fair to decline the claim. She provided a letter  from her 
vet which  said the dog had been treated  for various things. But there  was no reason to 
suspect allergic problems before 2018, and this wasnt  a pre-existing condition.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She wasnt  persuaded by the 
evidence of Red Sands expert, who said it was likely that the 2018 and 2016  issues  were 
related and the same condition, and said that the vet had concluded  they werent. She said 
lots of things could cause ear infections and she didnt think Red Sands had shown that the 
ear infections in 2016 and 2018  were  because of the same  underlying  allergic issue. She 
said Red Sands should  pay the claim.  Red Sands didnt agree so the case comes to me for 
a decision to be made.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thinking, in which  I said:
There are two issues in this complaint  whether it was fair for Red Sands to decline 
the claim,  and whether it was fair to apply  the exclusions  and Ill deal with each in 
turn.
Was this a pre-existing condition?
As part of her claim,  Ms Ms dogs full medical history  was sent to Red Sands. Ive 
considered it, and I think the following  entries  are relevant:
Before the policy  was taken out:
o14 September 2016  the dog is reported  as having a suspected ear 
infection, as she has been scratching her ears a lot for two weeks. 
She had chewed  a paw a few days previously. The vet diagnosed 
otitis externa, an inflammation of the outer  part of the ear and 
prescribed medication. 
Ref: DRN49683902After the policy  was taken out:
o18 January 2017  the dog attended  the vet for a vaccination.  Ms M 
said shed been scratching her ear for a few weeks. Otitis externa  
was diagnosed and medication  provided.
o16 March 2017  scratching of the chin; her ears were red again. She 
is on a hypoallergenic diet (the notes dont record for how long). The 
notes say that she should be started on anti-histamines again as OR 
had these last summer  and she had minimal  problems and was given 
ear drops.
o20 January 2018  the treatment for allergies and skin conditions  
Ms M claimed  for.
Ms Ms vet wrote Red Sands a short letter, saying:
I can state that the otitis externa that [the dog] had on 14/09/2016 does not 
have to be related  to her current skin condition The first time we discussed 
about allergies  and skin conditions with [Ms M] was on 20/01/2018, after 
finding out general and unspecific skin symptomology which wasnt  present 
before that date
The vet doesnt  provide  any other evidence or details. Ive taken this letter  into 
account. But I dont  think its accurate. Its clear to me from the medical records Ive 
quoted above that allergies were at least suspected  well before  January 2018. In 
March 2017, the dog was on a hypo-allergenic diet and was given anti-histamines. I 
think this is evidence of potential allergies. And the March 2017 note refers to anti-
histamines having  been  given in the summer of 2016  which  suggests  allergies  
were suspected before the policy was taken out.
Red Sands  has provided a detailed report from its own vet, who has reviewed  the 
medical records but not seen the dog. The report discusses the dogs medical history 
and the scientific  literature, and concludes that otitis externa is frequently  related to 
allergies in dogs  of this breed. The symptoms and the history  of treatment reported in 
the vets notes suggest that the recurring  issues the dog has had with its ears are 
because of an underlying allergic  issue. 
Ive taken all this into account. On balance, I accept  what Red Sands expert says 
and that otitis externa is often  though not always  allergy  related. And the medical 
history suggests the dog has had allergic  issues since at least 2017,  and most  likely 
since 2016. So it seems  most likely to me that underlying allergies were the cause of 
the otitis externa in this case.  
Since anti-histamines  a drug for allergies  were first used in summer  2016, and 
the otitis externa was first noted in September 2016,  Im therefore  satisfied that the 
claim for treatment for allergies in 2018  relates  to a pre-existing condition.  The terms 
of the policy  exclude claims for pre-existing conditions,  and so I dont think it was 
unfair for Red Sands to refuse this claim.
the exclusions
A relevant matter for me to take into account in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  is the law relating  to consumer insurance contracts like this 
one. The law says that a consumer applying for an insurance policy has a duty to 
Ref: DRN49683903take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If a misrepresentation is 
made carelessly, and the insurer can show it affected whether or not they would  have 
insured (or on what terms), it can amend (or cancel) the policy  to what it should  have 
been. And if the misrepresentation  is made  recklessly, the insurer  is entitled to cancel  
it.
Applying that to this case, Ms M had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she took this policy out. Ms M took out the policy  online, via 
a price comparison website. She was asked:
does [the dog] have  any pre-existing medical  conditions?
This was a tick box question  Ms M had to select either yes or no. She selected 
no. However, there was also an explanation  box, which said:
What constitutes a pre-existing condition and why do we need to 
know?
Pet insurance is essentially medical  insurance, therefore if your pet has been 
diagnosed with (or shown signs of) a condition / illness  / injury  which  has or 
has not been treated in the past it will not be covered under a new policy. A 
new insurance policy will only cover you for conditions which may arise in the 
future. A pre-existing  medical condition could  be anything such  as a chronic 
health condition  (diabetes) or something  as simple as a cyst. If you dont 
declare a condition / symptom then subsequently  claim for it, the insurer has 
the right to decline the claim. If in doubt as to whether a condition  falls under 
the definition of pre-existing we recommend speaking directly  with the 
insurer.
I dont think Ms M answered this question accurately. Her dog had been seen just 
over two months before she took the policy, diagnosed with otitis externa and given 
medication. 
I think there was a misrepresentation about this. In view of the fact that the otitis 
externa diagnosis was only two to three  months  before the application of the policy, I 
think Ms M didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by failing to 
declare the otitis externa  diagnosis.
As Ive said there are later entries in the vets notes that suggest the dog had been 
given anti-histamines,  an allergy medication, earlier that year. However,  theres 
nothing to suggest that a diagnosis of an allergic condition  had been  made,  or that 
anything in the nature of ongoing tests for allergies  was underway. Theres no 
information about the circumstances surrounding the use of anti-histamines in the 
vets notes. In the absence  of that Im not prepared to find that there was a 
misrepresentation by failing  to disclose an allergic condition when theres no 
evidence such a condition  had yet been diagnosed  or was under serious 
investigation. 
This is different to my finding  about whether it was a pre-existing condition. Based on 
the evidence,  I think its clear the dog was more likely than not suffering from 
allergies causing  skin conditions before the policy  was taken out  making  this a pre-
existing condition. But I dont think Ms M knew that at the time, and so in not 
declaring it she wasnt making a misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN49683904Red Sands underwriting criteria show that in the event of a pre-existing diagnosis  of 
otitis externa, it would  apply the exclusion all claims with respect to the ears to the 
policy. Its underwriting guide also shows that in the event of a pre-existing allergic  
condition, it would apply  exclusions  relating  to skin conditions and allergic conditions.
Given what Ive said about whether  Ms M failed to take reasonable care not to make  
a qualifying misrepresentation, I think it was fair for Red Sands to apply the ears 
exclusion from the start date of the policy because of the diagnosis of otitis externa. 
But I dont think it was fair to apply  the skin or allergies exclusions from the start of 
the policy.
I say that about  the allergies exclusion because I dont think Ms M failed to take 
reasonable care as no such  condition had been  diagnosed.  But in view of later 
events, its clear to me that it is nevertheless a pre-existing condition,  albeit an 
undiagnosed one at the start of the policy, and so not one covered by the insurance.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  said I hadnt taken into account what its expert had said. But it didnt add 
anything further.
Ms M didnt accept my provisional decision.  She said shed answered all the questions to the 
best of her knowledge  and she said her vet had told her he would have answered them in 
the same  way she did. She thought  the ear infection was a one off event, common in 
puppies, and had no knowledge it would be an ongoing issue. If shed realised  it would affect 
the insurance, she would have declared  it. And she said she didnt know about an issue with 
allergies at the time she took out the policy, and anti-histamines had been given at the 
suggestion of a family member and for acne, not on prescription by a vet for allergies.
Ms M said she did not set out to deceive,  and my suggestion shed made a 
misrepresentation was insulting. She was told ear infections were common  in puppies  and 
she didnt make a claim on her then insurance, confident it was a one-off. She said it was a 
one-off occurrence,  not a condition  which, she said,  meant  that it must have happened  
more than once.  If she had been asked  if the dog had ever visited  the vet, she would have  
answered differently.  And, she said, the vet didnt mention otitis externa  she was only 
ever told the dog had had an ear infection.  Her vet has said that this isnt linked to the later 
claim, and so it isnt fair for Red Sands  to decline the claim  Red Sands expert has not 
examined her dog. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Ms M has said in response to my provisional decision. But on 
balance, I still prefer the evidence of Red Sands expert (which, despite what Red Sands 
says, I not only took into account but accepted). The vets letter isnt accurate in its report  of 
the dogs medical  history,  and simply asserts that the otitis externa in 2016 and the skin 
condition in 2018 does not have to be related.  But as Red Sands expert  explains,  they 
dont have to be related   but frequently are. Based on the reports  in the dogs medical  
records, and the scientific evidence summarised in Red Sands report, I think  on balance its 
Ref: DRN49683905most likely that the two are related, and that both the 2016 ear infection  and the 2018  skin 
infection were caused by allergies.
Ive thought about what Ms Ms said about whether this amounts to a pre-existing condition.  I 
still think it does. I dont  agree that something  only becomes a condition when it occurs  
more than once.  The policy  terms define  a pre-existing condition as 
Any condition, symptom or sign of a condition  occurring or existing in any 
form and at any time prior to the commencement  date;  or
Any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form 
during the first 14 days of the commencement date
In this case I think the medical evidence shows that allergies are the underlying  condition  
Ms Ms dog has. That manifested itself in 2016  with the otitis externa, in 2017 with the 
investigations and hypoallergenic diet, and in 2018 with the skin condition. The otitis externa 
in 2016 was therefore a sign of the underlying allergic condition which occurred  before  the 
policy began  even  if it wasnt  recognised  as such at the time. I therefore  think  its fair for 
Red Sands  to conclude that allergies, and problems arising,  are a pre-existing condition  and 
therefore not covered by the policy.
I also think that Ms M should have declared the otitis externa when she took the policy  out in 
2016. Im sorry she feels insulted  by what I said; misrepresentation is the term used by the 
law applying  to insurance contracts. Theres no suggestion she was dishonest in the 
application she made, and Red Sands hasnt suggested the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless.
But I do think the question  she was asked was clear,  and she didnt  answer it accurately. Ive 
quoted the question and explanatory note above,  so I wont  repeat them here. I think its 
clear that Red Sands  wanted any condition, illness or injury to be declared. Ms Ms dog had 
been diagnosed with an ear infection (otitis externa) a couple  of months before the 
application, and that wasnt declared in the application  when it should  have  been,  and the 
question asking about it was clear. I think  that amounts to a careless misrepresentation.
The effect of a qualifying careless misrepresentation is that Red Sands can change the 
policy to exclude  cover it wouldnt have given if it had known the full picture  and so I think  
the ears  exclusion is fair. But as I said in my provisional decision although it later turned out 
to be allergy related, that wasnt known at the time. Ms M didnt make a misrepresentation 
about that, since she didnt know it at the time, and so I dont think its fair to add the skin  or 
allergies exclusions  though they could still be regarded as pre-existing conditions. 
Overall, therefore, I think Red Sands dealt with Ms Ms claim fairly  but I think it went too far 
in the exclusions  it applied to her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint, in part, and direct 
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to remove  the exclusions relating to skin 
conditions and allergies.
Ref: DRN49683906Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4968390