K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Skipton Building  Society  (Skipton) mis-sold them  several mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 5 April 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally upheld,  in part, Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision. And both parties agreed with 
my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties agree to my provisional  findings,  and as neither party  has given me anything 
else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So I now confirm 
those findings.
Ref: DRN43081442my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and within my provisional decision,  I partially  uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision is that:
the 2005 PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold. So Skipton Building Society does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Skipton  Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
The accident and sickness element  of 2007 PPI policy was mis-sold.  
Skipton Building  Society should  compensate Mr and Mrs M as I directed within my 
provisional decision.
Skipton Building  Society should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the remaining unemployment element of 
the PPI premium.
the 2010 PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold. And Skipton Building  Society  doesnt  have  to 
refund Mr and Mrs M any commission for this policy  as the level of commission  and 
profit share it received  was under  50%. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43081443Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Skipton  Building Society (Skipton) mis-sold them several mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
In 2003, Mr and Mrs M took out mortgage  with Skipton  through a broker  and they were  sold PPI at 
the same time. This service is unable  to look at the sale of this policy  as Skipton didnt sell the PPI 
policy. Mr and Mrs M have been  made aware of this and what they need to do should  they wish to 
complain about the sale of the 2003 policy.
Over the years Mr and Mrs M took out further borrowings  directly with Skipton  and were sold PPI 
policies in 2005, 2007 and 2010.
Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount  for the PPI policies. The policies  were in Mr Ms name  only.  In 
2005, the PPI taken out provided cover  for unemployment  only.  In 2007 and 2010, the PPI taken out 
provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint. They  considered that the 2005 policy wasnt mis-sold but 
thought the 2007 policy was. They  felt that Mr M had good benefits in place  that meant he could have 
met his mortgage repayments  if he was unable  to work because  of an accident or sickness and 
wouldnt have needed  the PPI.
Skipton disagreed with adjudicator and considered the 2007 policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Unfortunately the policy sold in 2010 wasnt assessed by our adjudicator. But, in any event, as the 
matter hasnt been resolved, I will consider the sale of the 2010 policy within this provisional  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
were Mr and Mrs M given a fair choice to take out PPI policies?
Skipton has provided copies of the mortgage paperwork from the time of each sale.
Having carefully looked through all the paperwork provided I am satisfied that for all policies Skipton 
made it clear that PPI was an optional  product. The PPI was described as optional and there were 
different levels of cover  that consumers  could  choose from if they wanted any at all. So I think Mr and 
Mrs M were aware they had a choice about taking out the PPI policies and chose to do so.
was PPI suitable for Mr and Mrs M?
For all the PPI policies, Skipton recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. And for each of the sales it 
recommended PPI for Mr M. So Skipton  had to check that the cover  it recommended  was right for 
him.
I will deal with each of the sales in turn.
the 2005  PPI policy
Ref: DRN43081444For this sale,  I can see that there  was a detailed discussion around Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.  
Within the mortgage application, Mr M provided his employment details.  He had been employed for 
16 years and it is noted that he received full sick pay for six months and then 70% until retirement 
(presumably through  a PHI policy  as noted on the 2010 mortgage application  form).
Then under the section  Personal Protection the adviser  has noted would  rely on sick pay for 
accident or sickness  no unemployment cover  although redundancy package of 5-6 months pay 
will be paid
From this, unemployment cover only was chosen  in Mr Ms name  only. I also noted  that the adviser 
recommended splitting  the cover 80/20% in Mr Ms favour based on the income split, but this was 
rejected by Mr and Mrs M with cover to be 100% in Mr Ms name. The cost of the policy was £25.20 
per month   for a monthly benefit of £800 in the event of successful  claim.
Having looked at this recommendation, it would  have  been a suitable recommendation. Mr M received 
full sick pay for six months and then received 70% of his wage up until until retirement  so I dont think 
he had a need  for accident and sickness cover. And while  Mr M had been employed for a lengthy  
time, and would have received good redundancy pay  up to six months pay, the PPI would have 
covered his mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months per claim. I think  this could  have been a useful 
benefit if Mr M was out of work for a lengthy time.
So I think the advisers recommendation for unemployment cover was a suitable  one.
the 2007  PPI policy
Again, I can see that there was a detailed discussion around Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. This is 
detailed in the Customer Needs Questionnaire dated  3 September 2007.  Again  Mr Ms employment 
and benefits have been noted. By this time, Mr M had been employed for around 19 years. He still 
received full sick pay for six months. The adviser  notes that Mr M would then get 70% of salary for 
life. 
So Mr Ms circumstances in terms of the benefits he received if he was out of work were  exactly  the 
same in 2007  as they were  in 2005. 
In 2007, under the section Personal Protection the adviser has noted Mr M has PHI and 
unemployment cover.  The unemployment cover will be increased.
The unemployment  cover  that the adviser mentions seems to relate  to the unemployment cover that 
was in place from 2005. And it appears that this is to be increased to cover the increased monthly  
costs following the additional  borrowing.
I can then see, later on within the Customer  Needs  Questionnaire out of the options ASU (which in 
this case  stands for accident, sickness and unemployment)  or unemployment  only, ASU has been 
ticked.
There is a box underneath for the advisers  rationale. Here, the adviser  has said:
I recommend that Mr M increase his unemployment cover to £880  per month.  This policy costs 
£27.72 and is an increase of £2.52 per month. £880 is adequate to cover  the mortgage payment on 
the current  rates  and the unemployment premiums.  This policy pays  out after 56 days  of claiming and 
will pay out for up to 12 months.
From reading  the advisers rationale  it seems as if unemployment only cover was to be chosen again, 
and for it to be increased to cover the additional borrowing. Mr and Mrs M were originally paying 
£25.20 per month for their PPI from 2005. So with the additional  borrowing and a monthly benefit now 
required of £880, Mr and Mrs Ms new PPI policy  for Mr M for unemployment only would cost an 
additional £2.52, meaning their new payment would  be £27.72.
Ref: DRN43081445So I think the adviser incorrectly ticked ASU  on the Customer Needs Questionnaire form as it 
appears to be incompatible with the rationale  provided  which suggests  an increase to unemployment 
cover only, and I think unemployment only was meant to be ticked.
The Personalised Illustration for Mr and Mrs M, dated  3 September 2007 which provides the Key 
Facts about their additional borrowing and offer suggests, under the insurance section, that Mr and 
Mrs M will continue to pay £25.20  for a benefit of £800. So it seems that it hasnt taken  into account 
the recommendation for the proposed increase to the unemployment  cover.
Then, I think matters  get confused. Despite the advisers  recommendations to increase the 
unemployment cover,  and because ASU was ticked (I think incorrectly), a Demands and Needs 
statement dated 26 September is sent out to Mr and Mrs M. This indicates  that Mr and Mrs M had 
wanted protection for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  presumably  because  ASU had been 
ticked  when  the advisers recommendation  was to increase the unemployment cover.
The Mortgage Protection  Schedule Details  sent to Mr and Mrs M shows that ASU cover had been 
set up for Mr M only for 100% benefit. The monthly benefit in the event  of a successful claim was 
£880. And the annual premium was £521.04  meaning  the monthly premium  was £43.42,  not the 
£27.72 the adviser stated in his rationale about  increasing  the unemployment cover.
So, in my opinion, the policy appears to have been set up incorrectly due to the incorrect box being  
ticked by the adviser.
what should have happened  in 2007?
I think,  on the whole, the advisers recommendation to increase the unemployment cover was 
suitable. Mr Ms circumstances were the same as they were in 2005. He received good sick pay and 
held a PHI policy that would pay out 70% of his salary up until he retired.  I dont  think  he needed the 
accident and sickness element of the PPI. Again,  while  he received a good amount of redundancy  
pay, this would have lasted for around six months. So having a PPI policy that protected him if he 
became unemployed and could potentially  pay out for up to 12 months was a reasonable 
recommendation.
So it follows that I think in 2007, unemployment only cover was meant to have been set up, and to 
cover the increase in borrowing and Mr and Mrs Ms higher monthly  repayments. 
The accident  and sickness  element of the PPI was incorrectly added  and should  not have been set 
up.
what does Skipton need  to do for the 2007 PPI policy?
Skipton should pay the difference between  what  Mr and Mrs M paid in premiums for the 2007 policy  
(so £43.42 per month) and what they should have paid if the policy was correctly  set up as 
unemployment only (so £27.72). They should  get these  overpayments back, plus 8% simple interest 
on each overpayment. This is compensation for Mr and Mrs M being out of pocket and deprived  of 
this money. The 8% simple interest on each overpayment should be calculated up until the date of 
settlement.
the 2010  PPI policy
For the sale of the 2010 policy, again I can see that there was a detailed discussion around Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances. Importantly in 2010, Mr Ms employment  circumstances had changed. So he 
didnt receive the same benefits as he did in 2005  and 2007.
Mr M had changed employer. He still received six months full sick pay, followed by statutory  pay but 
he no longer had the benefit of the PHI policy protecting him if he was off work for longer than six 
Ref: DRN43081446months. Because of this, I can see that the adviser  recommended  Mr M take out PPI for all elements 
(so accident, sickness and unemployment) with a 60 day waiting period.
As Mr M didnt receive the same benefits as he did in 2005  and 2007, I think the advisers 
recommendation was suitable. If Mr M was unable  to work due an accident or sickness or if he lost his 
job, the PPI would  have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. I think Mr M would have found  the 
policy useful.
for all three  PPI policies
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI policies wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, overall they chose to take it out to protect Mr M - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have  been  useful for Mr M if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI policies would have 
put them  off taking out the cover for Mr M.
overall
In regards to the sale of all three policies,  the only failing was the error with the 2007 policy. 
Unemployment cover  only should have been set up but full accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover was set up. The 2005 and 2010  policies  werent  mis-sold.
Skipton should put things right by compensating Mr and Mrs M for the 2007 policy as I directed  
earlier.
what else have I considered?
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), issued some new rules about how businesses  should  deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Skipton has said that the level of commission and profit share  it received  did create an unfair 
relationship for the PPI policies sold in 2005 and 2007. 
So to put things right it offered to refund  the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI for the time there was 
an unfair relationship.  It also included  8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr and Mrs M for 
the time they were out of pocket. 
Skiptons commission offer for the 2005  policy
Skipton should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI premium. Skipton should also pay Mr and 
Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
Skiptons commission offer for the 2007  policy
As I am of the provisional opinion  that the accident and sickness element of the PPI was incorrectly 
added, Skipton,  as it stands, will be refunding the full premiums Mr and Mrs M paid for the accident 
and sickness element of the PPI  and that includes all the commission Skipton received.
Ref: DRN43081447But Skipton should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra  they paid each month under the 
unemployment element of the PPI policy  because the commission and profit share it got was more  
than 50% of the cost of the PPI premium. Skipton should also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple  interest 
on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
what about the 2010  policy? Should Skipton be offering compensation for the level of commission it 
received?
For the PPI policy sold in 2010, Skipton has said that the level of commission  and profit share  it 
received for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy was under 50%. So it says that it doesnt need to do anything.
Having looked at this, I agree. Skipton  doesnt have  to refund Mr and Mrs M any commission for this 
policy  as the level of commission and profit share it received was under 50%. 
The FCA provided  guidance to businesses on how it should evidence  what  it received  as commission 
and profit share. So Id like to assure Mr and Mrs M that from what I know and have seen of how 
Skipton has been working out the commission and profit share  it received, Im satisfied  that it is 
working it out correctly.
Skipton received a high level of commission and profit  share on the 2005 and 2007 policies but for the 
2010 policy, the level of commission and profit share it received for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy was 
under 50%. So it doesnt  need to do anything in respect of this policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im provisionally intending  to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
I provisionally  consider:
the 2005  PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Skipton Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
The accident and sickness element of 2007 PPI policy was mis-sold.  Skipton Building 
Society should compensate Mr and Mrs M as I have directed above.
Skipton Building Society should also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the remaining  unemployment element  of the PPI 
premium.
the 2010  PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. And Skipton Building Society doesnt have to refund Mr 
and Mrs M any commission for this policy  as the level of commission  and profit share it 
received was under 50%. 
I invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision  by 5 May 2019.  I will then reconsider any 
evidence I receive and look to issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4308144