K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  dealt with a claim he made  on 
his motor insurance policy after an accident.
background
In March 2018 Mr Os car was in a collision  with another  vehicle. Mr O said as he overtook it, 
the other driver moved his vehicle into the path of Mr Os car. UKI told Mr O the best 
outcome was likely  to be that liability  would  be split 50:50. It said there was no independent 
evidence. And the other drivers solicitors had told UKI that he said Mr O was at fault.  
Mr O said UKI hadnt sent an investigator to the accident scene, that it had failed to keep him 
updated and that it had given him incorrect information. He said it made its decision before it 
got the other  drivers  sketch and accident report form.  Mr O also said UKI should have let 
him use his legal expenses cover  so a solicitor could  handle the claim for him. He wasnt 
happy that UKI didnt pass on the other drivers accident report form to him, or that it 
wouldnt say how much his uninsured  losses  were.  
On 8 October 2018 UKI apologised for the poor service it had provided in terms of updates,  
delay and advice.  It offered  Mr O £100  compensation.  It said it wasnt able to send him any 
details about the other  driver and that it only sent investigators out in complex cases.  
One of our investigators  later assessed Mr Os complaint. He thought UKI had compensated 
Mr O fairly for its poor communication with him. He said legal  expenses  cover wasnt  
intended to be used in the way Mr O wanted. He didnt think  it was wrong for UKI not to pass 
on to Mr O details about the other driver. And he thought UKI had acted within its terms and 
conditions in the way it had handled  liability for the accident.
Mr O insisted that UKI had made a decision on liability without seeing  the other drivers 
account of events. The investigator  said UKI had sent us a copy of the other drivers 
account, so it had been seen. Mr O asked for an ombudsmans review  of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recently we asked  UKI to clarify  what the status of the claim was. UKI said it was still open,  
as a decision hasnt  yet been  made about  liability. I can see from the claims notes that UKI 
disputed from the outset that Mr O was at fault, and it seems that it continues to do so. I 
think some  confusion arose because UKI told Mr O that liability might have to be split 50:50.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for UKI to think it may not be able to argue successfully that 
the other party was wholly  at fault. As there  were  no independent witnesses, that depended 
on how plausible the other drivers account  of events  was. It took some time to get hold of it 
from the other drivers solicitors. When the outcome of the claim is known, if Mr O isnt happy 
with it, he can complain  to UKI about it at that point.
Mr O told us he shouldnt have had to pay his policy excess  up front. But thats standard  
industry practice. If the claim is decided in his favour, he should  get the excess back.  The 
Ref: DRN41019592same applies  to his NCD.  It should  be adjusted if UKI is able to recover its losses  on the 
claim from the other insurer. 
I think UKI was right to advise Mr O that his motor  legal  expenses policy couldnt be used to 
defend the claim. The policy is there  to cover uninsured losses  such  as Mr Os policy 
excess. UKIs claims team is dealing with the claim in the usual way. UKI couldnt  pass the 
other drivers  details  to Mr O for data protection  reasons. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it not to send an investigator  to the scene of the accident.  UKI usually 
relies on aerial views, unless theres  a good reason  not to do that. I dont  think Mr O has 
shown that there was a good  reason in this case.
UKI has accepted  that it should  have  communicated better  with Mr O. It didnt update him 
enough. It made conflicting  statements  about whether it had been sent details from the other  
driver. I can see why Mr O would have  been  frustrated by these issues, but I dont think  they 
had a significant effect on the way the claim was handled. So I think UKIs compensation 
offer was adequate. Mr O got the cheque several  months ago and he says he hasnt cashed 
it, so UKI may need to issue another one.   
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4101959