K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Southern Rock  Insurance Company unfairly  cancelled  his insurance  
policy and is wrongly  pursuing him for reimbursement of damages paid to his neighbour.
background
Mr H has a motor insurance policy underwritten by Southern Rock. The policy is branded 
with a third party company name.  This company uses a specialist  claims handler  to deal with 
claims. But as Southern  Rock is ultimately responsible  for this complaint Ill refer to it 
throughout. References I make to the actions of Southern  Rock  also include the actions of 
the third party  company  and the claims handler.  
Southern Rock received a claim from another insurance company following an incident 
involving Mr Hs car. The car had been driven  into a neighbours  gate and had caused 
damage. As the insurer  of Mr Hs car, Southern Rock said it was obligated to deal with the 
claim. 
Mr H claimed  the car had been taken without  his permission so he didnt think  it was fair 
Southern Rock had cancelled his policy and that he was being pursued for the costs. So he 
complained to Southern Rock.
Southern Rock explained to Mr H that there was no evidence  to show  the car had been 
taken without his consent or reported to the police as stolen. Because of this it thought hed 
allowed a driver not insured on the policy to drive the car when the accident  had happened. 
It said this wasnt permitted under the policy terms. And it said the policy  wording made it 
clear it had the right to cancel his policy if the terms were  breached. And thats what  it had 
done.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator initially  upheld 
the complaint  and said Southern Rock  hadnt  acted fairly. However,  Southern Rock later 
provided a copy of the police report of the incident and she said this showed  that Mr H, his 
partner and the uninsured  driver  of the car were all present when the incident took place. 
She therefore concluded the car had been driven  by the other  driver with Mr Hs permission.
Mr H didnt agree with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons.
did Southern Rock act fairly in cancelling the policy?
Southern Rock has said that Mr H allowed a driver not covered by his insurance to drive his 
car. Because of this it says Mr H was in breach of his policy  so it was entitled to cancel it. So 
the starting point for my decision  is whether this was fair.
Ref: DRN45621112Ive looked at the terms of the policy. These state under the General  Exclusions  Applying to 
the Whole Policy 
The Policy does not apply when any car covered by it is:
b. Driven by, or in the charge of, anyone  who is not described in the Certificate of 
Motor Insurance  as a person entitled to drive
Its clear from the certificate of insurance  that while Mr H and his partner were  covered by 
the policy, the other driver  wasnt. 
The terms explain what happens if an uninsured driver is allowed to drive the car:
Alternatively, we have  the right to cancel  Your Policy  immediately,  at any time during  
Your Policy Period, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so. 
We will still send  Our cancellation letter to the latest address We have for You 
and will set out the reason for cancellation  in Our letter. Valid  reasons allowing  us to 
immediately cancel may include but are not limited  to:

g. If You are in breach  of any of the Terms,  Exceptions, Exclusions, Conditions  or 
Endorsements contained  in or endorsed upon this Policy
So from this, Im satisfied Southern Rock was entitled to cancel the policy if Mr H was in 
breach of the policy terms.  So Ive then gone on to consider whether he was.
was Mr H in breach of the terms of the policy?
Ive read through the police report and the witness statement from the neighbour whose  
garden was driven  into. Its clear from this statement  that Mr H, his partner  and the other 
driver were all present  when the incident  took place.  
The other driver got into the drivers seat of the car and attempted to start the engine.  Mr H 
was present while this happened. Shortly after, the driver manged to get the car started. He 
drove it rapidly out of Mr Hs drive, across the road and into the neighbours gate. 
The police attended the incident and arrested Mr H, his partner and the other  driver for drink 
driving offences. 
Theres no evidence to say Mr H reported to the police at the time that the other driver had 
taken the car without  his consent.  The claim on the policy was defined as an accident  as 
opposed to a theft and Mr H didnt actively assist in the prosecution  of the other driver.
Given the circumstances, Im not persuaded theres  any evidence that the other  driver  took 
the car without Mr Hs permission. Im satisfied its more likely  than not that the other  driver  
drove Mr Hs car with his permission  either  explicit or implied.
And because of this I think  Southern Rock had reasonable grounds to say Mr H had acted in 
breach of the policy terms and therefore to cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN45621113did Southern Rock act fairly in pursing Mr H for the reimbursement of the claim?
Sothern Rock  says it was obliged  to settle the claim it received from the third party  insurer. 
And there are circumstances  where  this is a requirement, where theres an unsatisfied  
judgement following court action although I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that 
applies here.
If it did, the insurer would normally then ask the policyholder to sign a consent and indemnity 
to authorise the insurer to take over the claim and settle it as it sees  fit. It would also give the 
insurer the right to recover losses from the policyholder. Theres  no evidence  to suggest that 
happened in this case.
So Ive gone  on to look at the terms of Mr Hs policy. These make it clear  Southern  Rock  can 
take over the claim and settle it as it wishes.
We can take over, if We so wish, and conduct  in Your  name or the name of the 
person claiming  under  the Policy the defence  or settlement of any claim 
The terms then go on to say that under certain  circumstances  Southern  Rock  has the right to 
reclaim money  from him.
7. Right of Recovery
If under  the laws of any country in which the insurance applies,  We have to make 
payments which  but for those laws would not be covered by this Policy, You must 
repay the amounts to Us
In this case Southern Rock  paid the third party  insurers claim in order  to mitigate  its losses 
and then sought to reclaim these from Mr H without first obtaining his consent. But Im 
satisfied the terms of the policy  allowed  it to do this and, bearing  in mind Mr Hs significant 
breach of the policy terms,  Im satisfied it was a fair and reasonable approach for it to adopt  
in this particular  case.  
In summary,  Im satisfied  Mr H was in breach of the terms of the policy  and therefore  
Southern Rock didnt act unfairly when it cancelled his policy. I also dont think it acted 
unfairly in pursuing  him for reimbursement of the claim. Because of this, I wont  be asking it 
to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4562111