K822xcomplaint
Mr T complained about RAC Insurance Limiteds  service when he claimed under his motor 
breakdown policy after an incident  abroad. 
background
Mr T was on holiday abroad with his family when his car got a flat tyre. He contacted RAC 
with whom he had a European  breakdown policy. RAC arranged for his car to be taken  to a 
garage where he could  have a new tyre fitted at his own expense. But they wouldnt pay for 
the tyre or any other costs. They said his policy didnt  cover those. 
Mr T complained that the policy was unclear about what it covered. He was also unhappy  
that when he called  RAC while abroad they wrongly  advised him what he was covered for, 
and they wouldnt  pay for his replacement tyre costs, or any other costs such as alternative  
transport or accommodation. 
RAC accepted that when Mr T first called them about his flat tyre, theyd given him wrong 
information about what type of cover he had, and what they could do for him. But they still 
said that his policy didnt cover the replacement tyre cost. Once our investigator became 
involved, RAC offered as a goodwill gesture to refund what hed paid for his policy,  give him 
an alternative policy for free, and pay half the cost of one replacement  tyre. 
Mr T didnt  think  that was enough.  He wanted  RAC to reimburse him for the new tyres hed 
had to buy. He also wanted them to change how they worded and advertised their policy as 
he felt that it was misleading. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
RAC had acted in line with their policy and that their offer to Mr T was reasonable. Mr T 
didnt agree and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T said as follows. His car got a flat tyre, which he thought  must  have been  caused by a 
pothole. This happened  the day before he and his family were  due to drive home from their 
holiday abroad. When he contacted RAC  they misadvised him at first about  what his policy 
covered. They said that his policy  didnt  cover a flat tyre as that wasnt  a breakdown as 
defined in the policy. So this meant that they wouldnt help him at all at first. He found  this 
very stressful and was worried that he and his family would be stranded  abroad. 
He said he wasted a lot of time on calling RAC, and trying to organise car hire and 
alternative accommodation, before RAC  accepted that he did have comprehensive  cover, 
which entitled him to be taken to a garage  where  he could buy a replacement tyre at his own 
expense. RAC still wouldnt pay for the new tyre because a flat tyre wasnt covered under 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN46971782Mr T also said that, even though he only had one flat tyre, he had no choice but to buy two 
new tyres from the garage RAC  took him to. This was because his car had summer tyres, 
but the garage only had winter tyres, and they said they couldnt  put a winter tyre on the 
same axle with a summer tyre. So he felt RACs actions put him to unnecessary  cost and he 
wanted them  to reimburse him for the cost of both new tyres. 
Ive looked at Mr Ts policy. It covers breakdown, which  is defined  as an event  that  stops the 
vehicle from being  driven because of a mechanical  or electrical failure including  as a result 
of battery  failure, or running out of fuel. Breakdown doesnt include "...a mis-fuel, road traffic 
collision, fire, flood, theft, acts of vandalism, any driver induced  fault,  flat tyres or any key 
related issue..."
So I think RAC were correct that Mr Ts policy didnt cover the cost of replacing  a flat tyre. I 
can see there seems to have been  some confusion on RACs part in their response to his 
complaint, in that they said that theyd refused his claim because  his car had been  in a 
collision, not a breakdown  as defined. Mr T said that was wrong  because  the flat tyre was 
caused by a pothole,  not a collision. But I think that the policy is clear that the cost of 
replacing a flat tyre is not covered regardless of what caused the flat tyre, as that doesnt 
meet the definition  of breakdown above, and RAC did explain what breakdown meant.  
But even though his policy didnt cover  the cost of a new tyre, Mr T had comprehensive plus 
cover under his policy, and so he was entitled  to some help in the event of a flat tyre. Under  
Additional Services*  on page 10 of his policy it says If your vehicle cannot be driven due to 
the following  reasons,  we will attend  and recover your vehicle and passengers  to a local 
garage. The reasons include if your vehicle has a flat tyre.  
RAC accepted that they were required under  policy to take Mr T to a garage, and they did 
that, but they wouldnt pay for the new tyre as that wasnt covered. Mr T felt that the policy 
wasnt clear as to what it covered. He said hed bought it to give him cover abroad, it wasnt  
clear that it wouldnt cover  a flat tyre, and so it wasnt fair of RAC to call that cover 
comprehensive as it was misleading. He wanted  RAC to change their terms and conditions 
to clarify exactly what they had to do in the event of a flat tyre. 
As the investigator  explained to Mr T, its not our role to make  an insurer  change their policy  
wording. Instead  we look at whether the insurer has acted in line with their policy  terms and 
applied them fairly and reasonably. We also expect a consumer to read their policy  to check 
that the cover meets their needs. In this case I think that the policy is clear that it is a 
breakdown policy,  and breakdown is explained  on page 4 of the policy  as being a 
mechanical or electrical failure. This is a common clause in breakdown policies rather  than 
an unusual exclusion.  The clause  also says that it doesnt cover a flat tyre, and so I dont 
think that it is misleading. 
Mr T also felt that when he called to make a claim, RAC should have been clear  with him 
what his policy covered. RAC accepted  that Mr T did have comprehensive cover,  but that 
they werent clear  with him about  that. They apologised, and said they would give their staff 
additional training about the details of comprehensive cover and when it applied. 
When the investigator became involved RAC  offered to refund Mr T what  hed paid them for 
his policy, give him an alternative  policy for free, and pay for half of the cost of one 
replacement tyre. 
Ref: DRN46971783Mr T said that even if the policy didnt  cover the cost of replacing  the flat tyre, RAC should 
have told him right away that they could take his car to a garage to replace  the tyre at his 
own expense,  but that he was also entitled  to accommodation and alternative  transport.  He 
said that instead RAC made him feel that he had no choice as to what  garage to take his car 
to, and what he had to pay for, to prevent him and his family being  stranded abroad. He felt 
that if theyd advised him correctly, he would have appreciated that he was entitled  to 
accommodation and alternative transport, and could have  claimed that. That would have 
prevented his stress and given him time to source  a single  summer tyre from another  garage  
or location that day or promptly afterwards, which would have meant  he avoided the extra 
tyre costs that put him out of pocket.  
However I dont think thats what his policy  says.  Under the additional services section 
above, it says if your vehicle has a flat tyre [and] If you have Comprehensive Plus and the 
local garage is closed  or does not have a tyre for your vehicle in stock, requiring it to be 
ordered, we will provide Additional Accommodation Expenses under Section 5." 
In this case RAC promptly found a local garage  which did have a tyre for Mr Ts car in stock. 
This all happened  in winter and so the garage  had winter tyres. It seems that for safety, Mr T 
was advised to get two winter tyres. It was unfortunate, as it meant that Mr T had to get two 
new tyres, when only one had gone flat, but I dont think  that RAC  are to blame for that.  
I do see that it must have  been very distressing  for Mr T when he got a puncture  abroad,  and 
he felt that RAC didnt  help him enough.  But I think that despite  RACs wrong  advice at first, 
they did promptly do what his policy required. And so in those circumstances I think that their 
offer of compensation is reasonable, and subject to that, I dont require  them to do anything 
else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4697178