K821x#15complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited gave him loans that he couldnt afford.
background
Myjar gave Mr B five loans in total between May  September  2016.  
Heres a table showing  some of the main loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest monthly 
repaymentDeferrals
1 07/05/2016 27/05/2016 1 £100.00 £116.00
2 30/05/2016 24/06/2016 1 £100.00 £120.00
3 27/06/2016 27/07/2016 1 £100.00 £122.40 1
4 26/08/2016 23/09/2016 1 £100.00 £123.20
5 24/09/2016 outstanding 6 £450.00 £135.02
When Myjar looked at Mr Bs complaint, it first offered to uphold  Mr Bs complaint  
about loan 5.
Mr B was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought that Myjar shouldnt have provided any of the above  loans  to Mr B. 
She explained why she thought the loans werent  affordable for Mr B and set out the steps  
she thought Myjar  should take to put things right for Mr B.
Myjar reconsidered its position and said that to bring  the matter to a close,  it was willing to 
accept the adjudicators proposed complaint resolution. It sent us details showing the figures 
it had worked out and we forwarded this information  to Mr B. 
Mr B isnt happy with what Myjar is proposing  and hes asked for a review  so this complaint 
comes to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN40378242But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I dont think Myjar  shouldve provided any of these loans to Mr B. And 
as Myjar has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the steps 
she suggested to put things right for Mr B, I dont think I need to say more about  these  
loans  except  that I think  Myjar  is right to offer to settle the complaint  in the way the 
adjudicator has suggested. 
Having looked  carefully at all the available information, overall, I think the way the 
adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint is fair and reasonable  and Myjar has agreed 
to do that and clarified what  this means in terms of how the calculations work out.
So I think Myjar should now do what it has offered to put things  right. 
I take this opportunity to remind Myjar (or any third party) that it should discuss payment 
options with Mr B and treat him fairly  and sympathetically if (as seems likely) an outstanding  
capital balance remains after offsetting  and Mr B needs further  time to pay what he still owes.
And if Mr B would like help to manage his finances  theres more  information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
Ref: DRN40378243putting things right  what Myjar needs to do 
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these  back  before doing what  I have 
outlined below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debts back  then it should  liaise  with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr B towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance (loans 1-4) not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate  8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  by Mr B which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loan 
(loan 5) and treat any repayments made  by Mr B as though they had been repayments  
of the principal. If this results in Mr B having made  overpayments then these should  be 
refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled.  Myjar should  then 
refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D.If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B" should 
be used to repay any balance Mr B still owes. If this results in a surplus then the surplus  
should be paid to Mr B. However  if (as seems  likely here)  there is still an outstanding 
balance then Myjar should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
E.Remove all adverse  entries from Mr Bs credit  file for loans 1  4, and for loan 5 when it 
is paid. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. MYJAR Limited should  take 
the steps Ive set out above to put things  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4037824