K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of Great Lakes Insurance SEs repairs following a claim on 
his mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
In July 2018 Mr B made a claim for accidental damage on his mobile  phone  insurance 
policy. The claim was accepted and the phone was repaired  and returned  to Mr B.
Shortly after this Mr B says the phone  was briefly immersed in a paddling  pool and since 
then the sound has stopped working and it has problems shutting down.
Mr B says the phones  rating means  being immersed in water in this way shouldnt  have  
damaged it and so feels that the previous repairs must have been of poor quality and 
allowed the water  damage. Great Lakes says the phone  was repaired and in good working 
order when it was returned to Mr B, so doesnt agree its responsible for repairing this further 
damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
Mr B says the phone  was immersed in no more than 9 inches  of water and for no more than 
a few seconds. The manufacturer of Mr Bs phone says it has a rating of IP67, which  means 
it should be able to withstand  immersion  in water up to a maximum depth of 1 metre for up to 
30 minutes. But it also says water resistance is not a permanent  condition and can decrease  
as a result  of normal wear. And it suggests not intentionally submerging the phone in water.
Mr B also says the phone  had been immersed in water on a number of occasions before  this 
without being  damaged.  But he accepts  it wasnt immersed  as deeply or for as long. 
Great Lakes has sent us its records from the repair of Mr Bs phone. These  show a number 
of tests of the phones  features were  done and all the features tested were working correctly. 
And, apart from the water  damage, Ive not seen anything to suggest the repairs werent 
carried out to a good standard  or that Mr B had any concerns about the repairs  before the 
water damage.
As Mr Bs phone was more than a year old, the water resistance can decrease over time and 
the manufacturer suggests not submerging the phone in water, Im not satisfied that the 
phone wouldnt have  been damaged even if it hadnt  previously been repaired.  So I dont 
think the water damage is itself proof  that the repairs were of a poor standard.  And the other 
evidence I have suggests the repairs were  carried out to a good standard.
So I dont  think theres enough evidence for me to say that the repairs  to Mr Bs phone  were  
of poor quality. And, as the insurance policy was cancelled before the phone  was damaged 
again, I dont think Great Lakes should  be responsible  for this further damage to Mr Bs 
phone.
Ref: DRN46094332my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4609433