K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd. He says that it gave 
unsuitable advice  when it recommended that he transfer two personal pensions he held to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to make  an investment in unregulated bonds.
background
Mr H approached BlackStar for advice on making  an investment into Colonial Capital bonds 
using funds from his pensions. Colonial Capital bonds were an unregulated investment. Mr H 
had preserved  benefits in a defined benefit pension  held with his former employer and two 
personal pensions.  BlackStar recommended that he transfer the personal pensions, which 
were valued  at around £26,000, into a SIPP and then invest in Colonial. The personal 
pensions represented  about 10% of his overall  pension provision. The defined benefits were  
left intact.
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint  and recommended  that it should  be 
upheld. He considered that the transfer  to a SIPP was only to facilitate the unregulated 
investment that Mr H was proposing to make. 
He considered Mr Hs circumstances were sufficiently similar to those as set out in the 
regulators alert of January 2013 (before this advice  was given),  about  advising on pension  
transfers with a view to investing  pension  monies  into unregulated products:
provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration  of the other  investments held 
by the customer or, when  advice is given on a product  which is a vehicle for investment in 
other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers),  consideration of the suitability of the 
overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper  and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes.  It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where  a 
customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in implementing a wider investment  strategy,  
the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the 
customer is contemplating.
BlackStar endorsed  the investment and recommended  it to Mr H as being suitable for his 
personal pensions.  It says that it took into account the low risk nature and the much greater 
value of the preserved benefits he held with the former employers scheme. 
The adjudicators view was that Mr H was not an experienced or sophisticated investor  and 
BlackStar had assessed him as having  a medium attitude to risk. Although the personal  
pension only represented 10% of his overall pension provision he considered  it was 
unsuitable for BlackStar to recommend that Mr H should invest 85% of his personal pension 
in an unregulated investment. 
Also, he was not persuaded, that due to the size of Mr Hs personal pensions,  there were 
sufficient compelling  reasons  to transfer  such a modest pension into a SIPP. The effect of 
any additional costs,  incurred on transfer, would  likely have a negative  impact on the value 
of the fund going forward. 
The business did not agree and said with 90% of Mr Hs existing pension portfolio in a low 
risk and safe environment  the overall  portfolio was out of line with his medium attitude to 
risk. The advice to transfer  had to take into consideration the overall  portfolio, therefore,  the 
smaller personal pensions  could  be considered  for high risk investment.
Ref: DRN45741652The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his opinion and said he did not consider it 
appropriate to invest the majority of Mr Hs personal pension in a high risk unregulated 
investment. It exposed Mr Hs pension to a higher  level of risk than he was prepared to 
accept. There were  significant penalties and fees on transfer  amounting to approximately  
16% of the personal pensions. And there  was no like for like comparison between  the old 
and the new schemes  for Mr H to make an informed decision on whether it was in his 
interests to transfer.
BlackStar said its remit had been  to advise on Mr Hs specific objective  of using his pensions  
to invest in Colonial  Capital bonds.  It had advised  him to leave the preserved benefits with 
the former  employers scheme and considered that low risk environment would allow Mr H to 
take a high level of risk with the remainder  of his pensions to meet his overall medium  
attitude to risk. And Mr H had demonstrated  knowledge and understanding  of these matters 
by enquiring in the following year about  transferring  his preserved benefits  to a Qualifying  
Recognised Overseas Pension  Scheme (QROPS).
BlackStar also said that one of the regulators principles of good regulation was that 
consumers should  take responsibility for their decisions. Mr H had been  advised according 
to the circumstances he presented and the advice and implications  were  clearly set out for 
him.
As agreement was not reached the complaint  has been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find Im in agreement 
with the adjudicator and  largely  with his same reasons.  Ive addressed  the issues  which  I 
consider most relevant  to the outcome of this complaint but I have read all the submissions  
from both parties.
Mr H was introduced to BlackStar,  by what appears to have been an unregulated introducer, 
for the purpose  of receiving regulated advice about whether to invest  in a specific 
unregulated investment using his existing pension schemes.
I consider BlackStar  had a duty of care to consider the proposed  investment and its 
suitability for Mr H very carefully.  
The investment was unregulated and reliant  on the success  of a single business rather than 
being diversified  with the risk spread in a pooled fund. Its lack of diversity and regulatory 
control meant it carried higher risks than mainstream regulated funds. In my view, 
unregulated investments are speculative and not normally suitable for the ordinary investor 
and only a small proportion of a suitable investors portfolio should be invested in 
unregulated investments.
I note BlackStars comment that Mr Hs enquiry about transferring his pension  to a QROPS  
indicated a level of knowledge and understanding that supported  its interpretation of him as 
an investor. However, this enquiry was in the year after the pension  advice was given. And I 
have seen no evidence  to persuade me that Mr H was a sophisticated or experienced 
investor to whom it might be suitable  to recommend unregulated investments.
Ref: DRN45741653I also note BlackStars comments that by having 90% of Mr Hs pension provision in a low 
risk safe environment, within a defined benefit  scheme, an investment of 85% of the 
remainder in a high risk investment was suitable. 
I disagree. I do not consider it was suitable to recommend a speculative unregulated  
investment by balancing it against  the safe preserved benefits Mr H held with his former 
employers scheme. The Colonial  Capital bond  was speculative and offered a higher level of 
risk than Mr H ought to have been advised  to accept.  It was not suitable for Mr H to invest 
what amounted to around 85% of his personal  pension into an unregulated investment.
Mr Hs personal  pensions  were relatively  modest with a combined value around of £26,000 
on transfer. Like the adjudicator I also consider a pension of that size would need particularly 
compelling reasons  to justify a transfer to a SIPP. The only reason  for the transfer I can see 
was to make  the unsuitable investments. Therefore I consider that the pension  transfer  
advice was unsuitable.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
BlackStar should also pay interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay such amount as may be required into Mr H's 
pension plan,  allowing for any available tax relief  and/or  costs,  to increase the 
pension plan value  by the total amount of the compensation  and any interest.  The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional 
Ref: DRN45741654allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, 
the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Pay to Mr H £300 for the trouble  caused to him and the disruption to his retirement 
planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he would have been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on 
the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult to know the actual  value of the 
investment. In such a case the actual value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. BlackStar should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the total payable to Mr H and the balance be paid as I set out above.
If BlackStar  is unwilling  or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. BlackStar may wish to require that Mr H 
provides an undertaking to pay BlackStar any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if BlackStar totals all those payments  and deducts that figure at the end 
Ref: DRN45741655instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
  Mr H wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
  The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
  Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances  and risk attitude.
  Mr H has not yet used  his pension plan to purchase an annuity.
  As the SIPP only exists because of the Capital Colonial  corporate  bond investment, in 
order for the SIPP to be closed  and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment 
needs to be removed. But if BlackStar cant buy it Mr H is faced with future SIPP  
fees. I think it is fair to assume five years  of future  SIPP  fees. So, if BlackStar cant 
buy the investment,  it should pay an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based 
on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above. BlackStar Wealth  Management  Ltd should provide  
details of its calculation  to Mr H in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4574165