K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WICEL) cancelled his 
car insurance policy (the policy) without giving him notice.
 
background
In January 2018 Mr F paid for the policy with WICEL. It sent Mr F an email on the 24 
January explaining it required some further information from him to continue with the policy. 
It needed a copy  of the front and back of his driving licence as well as his licence driving 
summary. It explained how he could access his licence driving  summary  online. This email 
said that if it didnt  receive  the information it needed,  it could lead to the policy being 
cancelled. When it hadnt received everything  it required  it emailed  Mr F on 6 February  
saying that if it didnt receive the information it needed from him within 7 days it would  start 
to cancel the policy.
On 13 February it emailed Mr F saying that as it hadnt received the information it needed it 
had started cancellation proceedings. There was a letter attached to the email, which Mr F 
has said he didnt see, giving him notice  that the policy would be cancelled on the 19 
February.
Mr F sent WICEL a copy of the front and back  of his driving licence on 18 February.  It replied 
the following  day asking  for a copy  of his licence driving summary. When it didnt receive this 
it cancelled the policy on 22 February  and wrote  to him on the same  day.
On the 24 February  Mr F was stopped  by the policy for driving  without insurance. He 
complained to WICEL.
WICEL looked into what had happened. It said it had correctly  cancelled his policy and he 
had been given notice that this would happen.
Mr F brought  his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. She thought  WICEL had fairly cancelled the policy.
Mr F disagreed. In summary  he said he thought  the business hadnt given him sufficient 
notice it was going to cancel his policy, especially when  it had emailed  him on 19 February,  
he hadnt received  the letter informing him his policy had been cancelled,  he hadnt  seen the 
attachment on the email sent on the 13 February and his case  was subsequently  dropped  
from court.
He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking WICEL to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive carefully reviewed all the email  and written correspondence between WICEL and Mr F. 
The email  WICEL sent on the 24 January clearly sets out what  information it needs, a copy  
Ref: DRN46114542of both sides of Mr Fs plastic driving licence  and his licence driving summary. This email 
goes on to say:
WARNING If you do not provide all of the documents  requested above, within 21 days of the 
start of your policy your policy  may be cancelled
There was also a letter attached to this email that set out what information  was needed.
The email  sent on 6 February again  sets out what information WICEL  needs from Mr F. The 
final paragraph of this email says:
If we do not hear from you and satisfactorily  validate your policy within  7 days from the date 
of this email, we will have  no alternative but to begin cancellation proceedings. IF the policy  
is cancelled, A fee of up to £50 will be incurred,  together with a charge based on the number 
of days you have had on cover.
The email  sent on the 13 February starts  with Act now to avoid cancellation.  The second 
paragraph of this email  says:
As these  documents have not been  received we have had to start cancellation proceedings 
and you will receive written  confirmation  of this in the post. A copy  of the letter  is attached to 
this email.
You can prevent  this by emailing scans or good quality photos of the documents to
The attached letter gave notice that the policy would be cancelled on 19 February. Mr F 
doesnt dispute that he received or read the email; simply that he didnt see the attached 
letter. But I dont think I can fairly say thats  the fault of WICEL or that it hadnt put him on 
notice that his policy would be cancelled. 
I can understand why Mr F has said the email he received on the 19 February  gave him the 
impression that he still had time to supply his driving  licence  summary,  but ultimately, he 
didnt do this. And for the reasons Ive explained  above I cant  conclude  that WICEL hadnt 
given him sufficient notice  of what information it needed or what would happen if it didnt 
receive this.
Mr F has said that he didnt receive  the letter informing  him that his policy  had been 
cancelled. And he has never received it. This letter was correctly addressed to him so I cant  
hold WICEL  at fault for him not receiving  it or any issues he may have had with his post.
Ive considered the courts decision not to prosecute Mr F for driving without insurance. My 
role here is to arrive  at a fair and reasonable outcome  taking into account the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. And Im satisfied this is what Ive done.
For the reasons  given  above I wont be asking WICEL to take any further  steps to resolve 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Watford  Insurance  Company  
Europe Limited.
Ref: DRN46114543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4611454