K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  incorrectly set up her 
late husbands pension  plan without a spouses annuity. She considers this was a result  of 
an error on its part as Mr B would have  intended  for this benefit to be included.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment. But in 
brief, Mr B had an Executive Pension Plan (EPP   policy number ending 455) which was 
transferred to another policy with Legal & General  around 1996/1997. This was because the 
sponsoring employer had gone  into liquidation. The proceeds from the EPP were used to 
buy a Non-Profit Deferred Annuity (NPDA  policy number  ending 614). 
Mr B started to take the benefits from the NPDA  in 2004 (the resulting annuity policy number 
ended in 245). When the annuity (245) was set up it included a five-year  guarantee period. 
However it didnt provide  a spouses  pension.
Sadly Mr B passed away in 2017. And Mrs B was told, amongst other  things, that the annuity 
payments from this policy would cease. She complained to Legal  & General and 
subsequently referred  the matter to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. She noted  that Legal  & General accepted  the possibility that a spouses benefit  may 
have been an option on the original EPP. But the correspondence about the transfer of the 
EPP to buy the NPDA was from an adviser acting for other financial firms. She didnt think  
there was any evidence to suggest  Legal & General advised Mr B about the type of annuity  
to buy. And there was no mention of a spouses  benefit being an issue  in the 
correspondence available. 
The investigator also reviewed the paperwork that Mr B had completed  when  the annuity 
(245) was set up to make payments in 2004. But she saw no persuasive evidence  to 
suggest that it hadnt been set up in accordance with the option  that M B had selected.  She 
thought that Mr B would  have been aware of the fact that the annuity didnt have a spouses  
pension attached to it. And so would likely have made further enquiries at that stage if there 
had been a problem with it.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators assessment. She said, in summary, that when 
Legal & General transferred the original  EPP it was without her husbands knowledge and he 
tried to cancel it. Legal & General did subsequently cancel it but then it was re-instated. She 
provided copies  of correspondence showing that the scheme entered  into by Legal  & 
General didnt allow a widows pension. She queried how Legal  & General had selected this 
scheme. She also said that Legal  & General had said it didnt offer financial advice.  However 
shed provided  a copy of a letter  from a Legal & General adviser showing he gave advice to 
Mr B on all financial matters. It was now suddenly saying it did give advice, but not on this 
particular issue. She said it was strange that it couldnt originally produce the documents, but 
could now provide some documentation but not that relevant  to her complaint which was 
from around the same time. 
Ref: DRN46050482my findings
I apologise to both parties for the time taken  to get to this stage,  but particularly to Mrs B 
given the circumstances of her complaint.  However Ive now considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Its clear that an adviser who wasnt working for Legal & General was corresponding with   
Mr B about  the options available to him on the closing down of the EPP. And subsequently  
with Legal & General and Mr B about the purchase of the NPDA. This adviser appears to 
have worked for different  financial firms over the period 1996 -1998.
In February 1996  he was recommending Mr B set up a SSAS (Small Self Administered 
Scheme). It appears that this didnt go ahead, and that Legal & General set up a NPDA  in 
error. Mr B complained to Legal & General by letter dated 27 October 1997. In the letter he 
said the NPDA  should be reversed. Legal  & General subsequently agreed and wrote to Mr B 
to confirm this on 19 November 1997.  It set out the options available  to him. This included 
transferring the benefits; taking the benefits or buying a NPDA. 
The advisers subsequent letters to Mr B show that a transfer  to a section 32 was being 
considered. And the advisers letter to Mr B dated  28 February 1998 recorded Legal   & 
General are pushing to complete the non protected rights transfer but before we can do so 
I will need confirmation of the salary and P11D  benefits you took from {the EPP}.In 
addition to this, I will once  more  compare the benefits that you would get under the deferred 
annuity to those that you may get on transfer so that we can be absolutely  certain that the 
transfer is the right  thing.
It appears that it was subsequently decided that the NPDA was the more favourable option 
given that the transfer didnt go ahead. This isnt surprising  given that the NPDA provided  a 
guaranteed level of benefits, whereas the benefits  from a section 32 plan would have 
depended on investment performance and annuity  rates. But I think the point  here is that this 
all goes to show that Mr B and his adviser  (who wasnt working for Legal & General) were 
considering the matter  in detail in 1996  through to 1998. 
Mrs B has provided evidence to show a Legal  and General  adviser had provided advice to 
Mr B about  his financial affairs. However this was advice from several years earlier. And 
whilst I understand Mrs Bs suspicions, in my experience it isnt unusual  for someone to use 
different advisers  over time.  Ive seen no persuasive  evidence  that a Legal & General 
adviser was involved  in the setting up of either the NPDA (614), or the later policy  when it 
was put into payment (245). 
I think its worth pointing  out that the decision as to whether to include a spouses pension  
isnt necessarily a straightforward one. A spouses pension  doesnt come without cost. The 
EPP may have included some spouses  benefits. And although  the NPDA didnt provide a 
spouses pension  it may also have paid a lump sum if Mr B had passed away  prior to him 
taking the benefits from it (in 2004). Mr B may have thought this was sufficient whilst the 
NPDA was held.  And either misunderstood what would be payable if he passed away  once 
the new annuity policy had been set up (policy number ending  245).  Or thought the better  
option was to have a higher initial pension (that increased in payment  by a significant  
percentage), along with the five-year guarantee period. 
Ref: DRN46050483As Ive said above,  if a spouses pension had been  an option it would likely have had a cost.  
The starting amount  payable would have been lower  than was actually paid. So Mr and Mrs 
B received a higher  income than if a spouses pension had been  attached  over the period it 
was paid from 2004.  
But clearly  this is all just speculation, and I cant know  for sure what  was in Mr Bs mind or 
what he intended at the time. And where  there is limited  evidence available, or its unclear or 
inconsistent, Im bound  to make a decision on the balance  of probabilities; that is, what  I 
consider was more  likely to have happened  on the balance of the evidence  that is available.  
Given Mr B and his adviser  were  clearly considering the issues  in 1996/1998, I think its 
unlikely that the NPDA  was set up without a spouses pension by mistake. I think its more  
likely than not that Mr B would have spotted  such an error  and raised the matter at that time 
(or his adviser if he continued  to be involved).  
I find its also likely that Mr B would have raised the matter in 2004, when the NPDA was 
taken and he started to receive payments, if the NPDA hadnt provided  the options  hed 
expected. I accept that, as I said earlier, I cannot know  Mr Bs thinking at the time, and its 
possible that he simply misunderstood the structure  of the benefits payable. If that was the 
case, it might explain why he didnt raise  the matter in 2004. 
But having  said that, I dont think any such misunderstanding was as a result of an error on 
the part of Legal and General  I think  the options form was clear that a spouses pension 
wouldnt be payable. And overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  that it was more likely  than not that that the NPDA (or annuity  that 
followed it) were set up incorrectly, or that Legal & General provided inappropriate advice to 
Mr B in respect of either plan. So in these  circumstances,  I dont  think  its fair and reasonable  
to uphold this complaint  against Legal and General. 
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4605048