K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains as a director of a business, C, that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) wont pay its claim under its Shops policy for business interruption  and building 
damage. This was following the shutters  to its shop  being vandalised.
background
In March 2018 the shutters on the shop leased by C were  vandalised.  The business had to 
close for a day, and C made a claim  to RSA for the damage to the shutters  and for business  
interruption. RSA said that under the terms of the lease, the landlord was responsible for the 
shutters. And it calculated that because C had a boost in sales over the next two days, it 
hadnt lost anything. 
On referral to this service  our adjudicator found that the damage  to the shutters  was the 
landlords responsibility. But he thought it wasnt fair to suggest that C could have recouped 
all of its losses over the next two days. Even though  the takings were up in the following 
days, he didnt  think it fair to say that every  customer who would have  come  on the day the 
shop was closed  would  have returned over the next two days. He proposed that RSA pay a 
settlement based  on one third of those customers returning.
RSA still disputed its liability  to pay. It put forward a calculation that C had lost one third of its 
profits. It said C would have been able to recoup any rent paid for that day under its lease, 
from the landlord. Based on the average  of the takings for a Monday, it calculated  that there 
would still be no pay-out, once the rent for the day was deducted.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
building damage
Under the terms of the lease the landlord  is liable to insure the building,  apart  from tenants  
improvements and plate  glass  windows. C didnt  install the shutters. I understand that the 
windows themselves werent  damaged  so it is reasonable  to expect the landlord to pay the 
cost of repairing  the shutters.
business interruption
Its clear that the shop  had to close for the day, so C would be able to pursue any loss of 
profit. I should warn  however  that calculating such a figure is hypothetical and difficult  to 
establish. For a starting point I dont think its reasonable to say that the entire  profit for the 
day of the claim (a Monday) was regained over the following two days. Our adjudicator 
pointed out a number of occasions where the profits for Tuesdays and Wednesdays  were as 
high as the two days  following the claim.  I understand that Cs business could have been 
seasonal and the average profits do tend to fluctuate quite a lot. 
I think the adjudicators  proposal is fair. That is that it would  be fair and reasonable to 
assume that one third of the customers  who couldnt come on the Monday came in on one of 
Ref: DRN42778752the following  two days. So I think it fair to say that C lost about two thirds of its profits for the 
day of the claim. 
I have seen RSAs  calculation. I think it fair to base the average takings on previous 
Mondays, which  werent very high but would represent Cs loss for the day it had to close.  
RSA has put forward  a figure of £185 for an average Mondays takings and I cant say that 
that is unfair from looking at the records. The policy allows for a payment in respect  of loss of 
gross profit. RSA has calculated this figure as being 50.76% and again I think  thats fair. It 
also has deducted a figure for VAT which  is again reasonable as C wouldnt have paid the 
VAT. I have already  indicated to RSA that I think it neither fair nor reasonable to expect C to 
exercise its rights under the cessation of rent clause in the lease to recover  one days rent 
from the landlord. So I think that RSA should  pay the loss of gross  profit  based  on the loss of 
two thirds of the takings  and not deduct  any notional rent. 
This produces the following  calculation:
Expected Monday Takings £185.00
loss of takings  due to closure £123.33 
deduct VAT £  20.55
net figure £102.78
gross profit @ 50.76% £  52.18
net loss payable £  52.18
I think RSA should  pay £52.18 in respect  of Cs business interruption claim.
my final decision
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay to C £52.18 in respect of its business 
interruption claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4277875