K820x#14complaint
Mrs S on behalf of Mr S has complained  that their broker Wilby Ltd failed to pass  on 
information to his insurer and this resulted in a claim not being  covered under his shops 
policy.
background
Mr S has a soft furnishings  business.  He arranged his insurance through Wilby.
Previously Mr and Mrs S had run a similar  business through a limited company. Mrs S says 
she phoned Wilby in August 2017 to tell it about the change in the business  from a limited 
company to sole trader and the new bank details for payment of the premium.
Mr S made a claim on 2 April 2018 after flood water came into his business premises.  His 
insurer said it hadnt been told about  the change in policyholder.  That meant at the date of 
the loss Mr S was uninsured.
Mrs S says she didnt receive  any policy documents from Wilby until 11 April 2018 although 
the policy was renewed on 23 March.
Mrs S complained to Wilby. She thinks Wilby failed to notify the insurer of the change  of 
policyholder and so its Wilbys fault that Mr S is uninsured. She would like Wilby to pay the 
amount claimed  of £54,000 and compensation. 
Wilby didnt accept responsibility for the loss. It said Mrs S had only told it about a change  of 
bank details in August  2017 and not the change of policyholder. It also said it had emailed 
the renewal documents to the company on 22 February 2018 and posted them to Mr and 
Mrs Ss home address. 
Mrs S brought Mr Ss complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint. 
She said she hadnt seen any evidence to support the fact that Mrs S had told Wilby about  
the change in the policyholder in August 2017.  As Mrs S didnt  agree,  the matter  has been 
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately there arent any call recordings available for the office of Wilby that Mrs S 
rang. What  I need to decide is whether its likely Mrs S told Wilby  at that time that the 
policyholder had changed or whether she just told them there  was a change of bank details.  
I can see that Mrs S contacted Wilby in an email headed Bank  details  sent in August 2017 
and said:
I need  to change all my bank details as we are separating into two accountsWhat do I 
need to do now?
Wilby replied:
Ref: DRN46862162 All you need  to do is let me have  the new account  holder  name,  account  number  
and sort code  and let me know  what  you want  to come  from where.
Mrs S replied with Mr Ss bank details. I dont think Mrs S made it clear to Wilby that the 
name of the policyholder should  be changed from the company to Mr S or that the 
information she gave  Wilby  was such that it ought  to have made further enquiries. I think it 
was reasonable  for it simply to take it at face value that only the bank  details were  changing.
The policy was due to renew on 23 March 2018. According to Wilbys records  renewal 
documents were  sent to Mr and Mrs Ss home  address by post on 22 February 2018. These 
showed that the policy was in the name of the company. Mrs S says that she and her 
husband never received these. Wilby says it also emailed them to the companys email 
address. Unfortunately  it appears she didnt see the email either. I cant see that Mrs S ever 
told Wilby only to use her personal email address although she had started emailing them  
from her personal email address. Since Wilby was still under the impression that the policy 
was in the name of the company, I dont  think  it acted  unreasonably in the way that it 
handled the renewal.
After leaving various  telephone  messages for Mrs S advising that the policy  was about to 
lapse, on 29 March 2018 Wilby was told by Mrs S to renew the policy. The damage  
happened on the second working day later. I dont think it was Wilbys fault that Mrs S didnt 
see the renewal documentation  before the loss happened which  might  have alerted her to 
raise the fact that the policyholder was wrongly  stated to be the company.
I appreciate that there was an administrative error on Wilbys part in that the business 
address in the renewal letter was incorrect. This had no impact on the claim as it was correct  
on the policy documents. I dont think this mistake is enough to persuade me that Wilby is 
likely to have made  the far more serious mistake of not acting  on instructions to change  the 
policyholder from the company to Mr S.
Overall Im not persuaded  that Wilby was negligent in the way it administered  the policy.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686216