K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance  from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Porsche Financial Services) (PFS).
background
In March 2017 Mr M was supplied with a new car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with PFS.
In August  2017  Mr M experienced issues with the car going into limp mode.  The car was 
returned to the dealership who investigated  and found the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was 
blocked. A regeneration of the DPF was carried out which resolved the issue.
In October  2017 the DPF warning light came on. The car was returned to the dealership who 
investigated and found the DPF had become blocked again. The dealership  advised  Mr M 
that the car wasnt  covering enough mileage which meant the DPF wasnt able to regenerate  
on its own. A further manual regeneration of the DPF was carried  out which  resolved  the 
issue.
In February 2018  the DPF warning light came on and the car was returned  to the dealership  
who found the DPF had become blocked again. A manual regeneration of the DPF was 
carried out which resolved the issue.
In October  2018 the car went into limp mode  and the DPF light illuminated. The dealership  
carried out a manual  regeneration of the DPF and advised Mr M that a lack of mileage was 
causing the issues.
In November 2018 Mr M complained to PFS and asked to reject  the car.
In its final response PFS said the DPF was operating  as it should and there was no fault.  
Mr M was unhappy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said the issues experienced by Mr M were 
as a result  of a blocked DPF which had been  caused by the way in which  the car was driven.  
The investigator said there was no evidence to suggest there was a point of supply fault with 
the DPF.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said the investigator  had only considered the part of his complaint 
which related to satisfactory  quality and hadnt  considered whether the car had been mis-
sold to him. Mr M said hed never been made aware  that he needed  to drive the car in a 
particular way or cover a certain number of miles.  He said that if he had been  made  aware of 
this he would not have purchased the car and would  have chosen a  petrol model.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because PFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase  agreement  theres an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of a satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person  would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
Ref: DRN43154012circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a brand new car to be of a high standard and free from minor defects.
Mr M and PFS disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr M experienced problems with the car going into limp mode approximately 5 months from 
the point of supply. During this time the car had covered approximately 5400  miles. A 
blocked DPF was found and a manual regeneration  resolved the issue.  The same  issue  
happened in October 2017 at 6219  miles, in February 2018 at 7358 miles and in November 
2018 at 13,509 miles.
On each occasion the dealership found that the DPF had become  blocked. This service has 
spoken to the dealership who has said that it advised  Mr M that the issue  happened because  
he wasnt using the car over long enough distances to enable  the DPF to regenerate itself.
Theres no evidence that the DPF isnt working as it should. The issue  appears to be caused 
by Mr Ms use of the car. Mr M has acknowledged that he doesnt use the car to make 
regular long journeys.
In the circumstances, and taking into account  the available evidence, I cant  safely  conclude  
that there  was a point of supply fault with the DPF. The evidence suggests that the DPF has 
become repeatedly blocked due to the way in which the car is used. So Im unable  to say 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr M has also raised a complaint that the agreement  was mis-sold. He says the dealership  
didnt advise him that he needed to drive  the car in a certain way.
I dont have any direct evidence about  what was said to Mr M at the point  of supply. In order  
for me to say that the car was mis-sold  I would  need  to be satisfied that Mr M was provided 
with incorrect information at the point  of supply which induced him to enter into the 
agreement. Based on what  Ive seen Im unable  to say that this is the case.
Mr M says he chose  the car because he thought it would  be more economical.  He says that 
the car was described by the dealership  as being suitable for an urban environment due to 
its compact size. I havent seen  any evidence to suggest that those statements were  
incorrect i.e. that the car isnt economical or compact.
I understand the point Mr M makes about  not being  told to drive  the car in a particular way. 
But theres no evidence  that Mr M told the dealership that he only intended to use the car for 
short domestic journeys.  Because of this I dont think its fair to hold the dealership 
responsible for a failure to advise about  something  which wasnt brought to its attention. Im 
also aware that information about  the DPF feature  of modern diesel  cars is widely  available 
and accessible.
In the circumstances Im unable to conclude that the agreement  was mis-sold. Nor can I say 
that the issues which Mr M has experienced with the car are as a result of a point of supply 
fault. This means that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN43154013my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4315401