K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs W say The Chorley  and District Building Society  (Chorley) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The PPI was unemployment cover only. Ive decided  it wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W bought the PPI when they switched their mortgage  to Chorley, increasing the 
loan amount at the same  time. Mr and Mrs W say they were  told they had to have Chorleys 
unemployment insurance to get the mortgage. I think that was correct if they wanted the 
discounted product  they chose. Their mortgage offer said: Unemployment insurance  is 
mandatory through the Societys Agency unless the borrower is ineligible under the terms of 
the policy. There was provision for a higher interest rate to be charged if other  extra policies 
werent taken with Chorley.  Mr and Mrs W say they paid that higher rate. But there was no 
provision for eligible borrowers to refuse  the unemployment cover  or take it elsewhere.
Cover was taken on Mr W only. He was eligible for it and Mrs W was not. Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage application has a tick in the box for unemployment  cover.  Theres  also a tick with a 
cross through it in a box to say no cover was required. But to take the unemployment cover  
Mr W signed a separate  PPI application.  So I think Mr and Mrs W were  aware  they were 
taking the cover for Mr W, as theyve made  clear,  and they agreed  to this cover.
Mr W had employee  benefits. But employee  benefits  didnt make him ineligible  for the PPI  
which wouldve paid out on top of work benefits.  And the discounted  mortgage  product terms 
required the unemployment insurance, regardless of Mr Ws work  benefits. Mr and Mrs Ws 
savings and other insurances  didnt change that either. And the fact Chorley imposed this 
condition doesnt  itself mean  that Chorley did something wrong and mis-sold the PPI.
Its possible the information Chorley gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the cover  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it is apparent that Chorley  made it clear the cover was a condition  of the 
mortgage product  Mr and Mrs W chose to apply  for. I havent  seen anything that makes me 
think clearer information about the terms of the cover itself wouldve made a difference  to 
Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take it. For example Mr W was eligible for it. Mr and Mrs W were 
likely aware  of what the cover would  cost when they agreed to it. The mortgage offer set out 
the insurance premium  cost separately. And it looks like the cost was affordable.
I dont think Chorley pressured  Mr and Mrs W into the agreement, based on what Ive seen. 
And I think its likely  they wouldve been  aware that if they didnt  want  the discounted product 
on the terms on which it was offered they could go elsewhere for the mortgage. Chorley says 
they also had the option of its standard mortgage product, but it wouldve cost more.
Mr and Mrs W have  said Chorley recommended the cover  and told them it was appropriate 
for them. Ive thought  about everything Mr and Mrs W have said including what theyve said 
about not having a choice about the PPI in reality and not being able to go elsewhere for it. 
Ref: DRN40396642But Im not persuaded Chorley gave  Mr and Mrs W incorrect or misleading advice about  the 
cover or its suitability for their circumstances.
Chorley hasnt been  consistent in what it has told us about  whether the cover  had to be with 
Chorley or could be taken  elsewhere.  But, as Ive said, what Ive seen makes me think  the 
discounted product  wasnt  available to Mr and Mrs W without unemployment cover through 
Chorley (given that Mr W was eligible for it). And for the reasons  Ive already given above, I 
dont think this means the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on the PPI  and whether 
Chorley treated  them unfairly.
Chorley has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Chorley has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Chorley  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039664