K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS),  trading as NatWest, mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card.
background
In 2007, Mrs W took out a credit card over the internet.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI 
policy. This policy protected  the repayments  on her card if she couldnt  work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
RBS didnt think it had mis-sold the policy to Mrs W. But after Mrs W had referred her 
complaint to this service,  RBS offered to compensate her for the commission  in excess  of 
50% it had received on this sale. Mrs W didnt  accept this offer. She still thought  the policy 
had been mis-sold to her and that she should  receive full compensation for this.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. And she thought  the offer RBS had 
made for the commission  it received on this sale was fair. Mrs W didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ws 
complaint about  the mis-sale. But I do think shes due the compensation RBS offered for the 
commission it got from selling her the PPI policy.
Mrs W thinks she was mis-led into thinking  that she had to take the PPI to get her credit  
card.
RBS has provided a copy of the credit agreement that was produced when  Mrs W applied 
for her credit  card on-line.  I can see that for PPI to be added  to her card account she was 
required to place a tick in a box provided in a section headed I wish to purchase Payment 
Protection.  Theres a tick in this box on the copy of her agreement.  And I havent seen 
anything suggesting  that RBS implied to Mrs W that she needed to take the PPI to get her 
card. 
So, on the basis of all the information available to me, I think its more  likely than not that 
Mrs W actively decided  to take the PPI, knowing it was optional and that she had a choice.  
But I can understand why she may not be able to recall this now.
Ref: DRN43938272I dont think that RBS recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt need to ensure that the 
policy was suitable  for her particular circumstances at the time. But it did still need to give 
Mrs W enough information  for her to decide  if she wanted to take it. I think  its likely that the 
information RBS gave Mrs W at the time of this sale wasnt as good as it should have been. 
But I dont think that better information  would have changed her mind about taking it. I say 
this because:
Mrs W appears to have been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mrs W says she was eligible for generous  sick pay from her employer and also had 
some savings  she could  have  used to make  her card repayments if she wasnt able to 
work. But this policy  would have paid out in addition to these other means  and, 
potentially, for longer  than these would have  lasted. So I still think  she would have  
valued the extra protection the policy  gave  her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs W. And as the premiums were  
paid monthly, she could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Mrs W has lost out as a result  of anything that RBS may have done 
wrong when it sold her this PPI policy. This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mrs W any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs W the difference  between 
what Mrs W would have owed when she closed her account and what  she would have owed 
if the commission and profit  share  it got hadnt  been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS 
should also pay Mrs W 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim this back if she doesnt  pay tax.
Ref: DRN43938273my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand this has not yet 
been done. So The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc should bring its offer up to date and pay 
Mrs W compensation as shown above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4393827