K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold in 2006 in connection with a mortgage that Mr and 
Mrs H took out, and another policy sold in 2008 in connection with a further advance.  The 
policies provided  cover for Mr and Mrs H if they couldnt work because of accident, sickness  
or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs H the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policies?
If there was a problem  with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs H are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policies  if there  hadnt been any problems with the sales?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs H say they were told they had to take the 2006 PPI to get the borrowing they 
wanted, and that Lloyds  didnt give them a proper choice. Ive noted  everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs H and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. 
But I can see that an Insurance Fact Find was completed for Mr and Mrs H, and this 
showed that they already  had PPI for their existing mortgage. The form was also completed 
to show that Mr and Mrs H didnt have any other cover to replace  their income if they 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr and Mrs H said it was 
important to them to ensure  their mortgage repayments were covered  if they couldnt  work. 
Ref: DRN46319842There was a box that couldve been ticked to show that it wasnt important to them,  if this 
was their view.
Lloyds then produced a summary that included its insurance recommendations. The 
document said:
You told me that you want to make sure you could continue to meet your mortgage 
repayments in the event  of sickness & accident  or unemployment.
It also said:
You said that you may not be able to meet your mortgage repayments  in the event of your 
disability through  accident  or sickness, or your unemployment.
You are aware of the benefits of optional Mortgage Payment Protection and have confirmed 
your current  eligibility for cover. You have also received  information  on the cost, terms and 
conditions and significant exclusions.
Ive also noted  that in the mortgage  offer,  PPI is listed as Optional Insurance.  The 
document says:
You are not obliged  to take this cover but should you wish to through  C&G,  the monthly 
cost is shown opposite.
PPI was also listed as Optional Insurance  in the mortgage offer for Mr and Mrs Hs 2008 
further advance. And the relevant wording said:
You are not obliged  to take this cover but should you wish to do so, the monthly  cost for 
the term of your mortgage is shown opposite.
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Lloyds did enough to make  Mr and Mrs H aware  
that the policies were  optional. There is nothing in the documentation  to suggest that taking 
the PPI would improve Mr and Mrs Hs chances of getting the loans they wanted.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs H to take out the policies and it doesnt look like they were  
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the relevant times. I 
say this because:
- Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policies given their circumstances  and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
- Mr and Mrs H say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt 
work because of sickness or accident, and that they had some savings. But the 
policies wouldve paid out in addition to their employer benefits and would do so, it 
seems for longer. Having the PPI in place meant Mr and Mrs H couldve used their 
employer benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. So I think  Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve had some  use for the policies despite their existing arrangements. 
-Mr H has told me he became self-employed in 2009, and so the policy wasnt  of any 
use to him from then on. Ive noted  what hes said, but I havent been able to safely  
conclude that Mr H made Lloyds aware of his intention to become self-employed 
when the further  advance  was arranged in 2008.
Ref: DRN46319843But even if Mr H had made Lloyds aware  of his intentions, Im not persuaded that 
wouldve made the policy unsuitable for him. I say this because it was no more  
difficult for self-employed  people to make  a successful unemployment claim on the 
2008 policy than it was for employed  people. 
- Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policies  main  
benefits, such as those for people with pre-existing medical conditions. As they could 
have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover I think it unlikely they needed better  
advice or information about  the policies exclusions and limitations.
- The policies costs were set out in the mortgage offers Mr and Mrs H received. So I 
think they wouldve  known how much they would be paying for the PPI, and found it 
acceptable. The policies were competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different decision  if better  
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policies seem to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs H would  have made a different decision if better information had been provided 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4631984