K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that when Ancile  Insurance Group Ltd (Ancile) changed the underwriter of 
his policy,  the terms of his travel  insurance  policy changed without his knowledge.  Mr G says 
this has had an impact on him financially, and hed like a refund. 
I issued a provisional  decision  in this case in March 2020. That provisional decision is below 
and forms part of my final decision.  
Both parties  have confirmed theyve received my provisional decision. 
Mr G has replied and has made a number of further  points which I will deal with below.
Background
Mr G purchased a travel  insurance  policy in November 2015 through Ancile,  who were 
acting as an intermediary for an underwriter. The sale of the policy  was non-advised, and the 
premium was paid for by Mr Gs employer. He paid tax at 40% on the premium  as an 
employment benefit. The policy was an annual  policy  with specific worldwide cover  including 
cover for pre-existing medical  conditions.  
In 2016 and 2017 the policy renewed. But in 2016 Ancile changed the underwriter of the 
policy. And this was advised on the policy summary and during  the call when Mr G renewed  
his policy. 
Before renewal in 2018 Mr G reviewed  the policy and he noticed that the policy wording had 
changed. He was unhappy with this, so he changed the policy to another  insurer who he 
says provided cover  closer to what he originally had in 2015.
Mr G says that the wording in the section relating to what the insurer  will pay in relation to 
medical expenses in the 2015 policy is visibly different in words, layout, and in tone of voice, 
to the 2016  wording. Mr G says that cover for private hospital care was excluded in the 2016 
and 2017 policy, but that the 2015  policy states that it would  pay for treatment in a private 
hospital unless the insurers  medical advisers said that a public hospital in the country and 
area in question would be medically  reasonable.
Mr G is shocked that this change  wasnt highlighted  to him. He travels  extensively and 
having the option of private medical care is important to him, especially in the countries he 
travels too. Thankfully this specific cover hasnt been required by Mr G. But Mr G has 
advised that hed found similar cover  at a cheaper  premium  and didnt take it as he hadnt 
been made aware that his cover had changed. So, hes paid for lesser  cover  at what he feels 
is an inflated price. Mr G would like a refund of the difference he feels  hes overpaid.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint.  He thought  it should be upheld. He 
asked Ancile to refund Mr G the difference in his proportion  of the premium, and interest  at 
8% per year. 
But Ancile  disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said We would just like to 
clarify that we do not exclude  private hospital treatment. As previously  advised our policies 
state that private hospitals  are not covered  unless medically necessary and verified  by the 
assistance company.  
Ref: DRN42374862Ancile also say We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule of cover and limits for 
costs incurred outside the UK that have  been authorised by the emergency assistance  
company. Ancile  go on to say Although the wording had changed in 2016 due to changing 
underwriters, we clearly state on page  3 that your policy does not cover  any costs  for 
private medical treatment unless authorised by us. We understand the wording may be 
different, but the terms still apply. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I dont intend to uphold  
this complaint and Id like to explain  why. 
Before I go into my findings I need  to clarify  that this complaint is against Ancile, and not any 
of the underwriters involved.  As such I will be dealing with the requirements and actions of 
Ancile only in this decision.
Mr G first bought this policy in 2015.  He says that having checked the terms of the policy, it 
says that it would pay for treatment in a private  hospital unless the insurers  medical  advisers  
said that a public  hospital in the country and area in question would be medically 
reasonable. He renewed in November 2016 and again in November 2017  and he says that 
Ancile didnt draw  attention in any way to any changes in the terms of the policy, and he 
believed he was buying cover on the same  terms as in 2015. But in 2018 when he was 
reviewing the policy he noticed that the wording had been changed  to exclude  cover for a 
private hospital unless the insurers had agreed  to it beforehand. 
Im going  to look at the policy wordings first. 
policy wording 2015
Under the heading relating to medical  and repatriation expenses the policy says this is not 
private health insurance.  This is set out in coloured writing  and in block  bold lettering. 
Underneath it sets out what will be paid, and underneath that it sets out what wont be paid. 
Between these  sections  under a highlighted NOTE it again says, this is not a private 
health insurance. After  this the policy sets out what to do in the event of a claim. It says you 
must contact the emergency assistance  company immediately.
Mr G says hes aware of the policy terms and hed never imagine his travel  insurance was 
private health insurance in that sense. Mr G then states, But any travel insurance policy  
which covers  medical expenses will be providing  cover  for treatment in private facilities when 
necessary. Mr G then provides some  examples from what  he knows  about what happens in 
both the USA and India.
So, I want to take what both parties  are saying here and set out separately  what each party 
is saying. Mr G argues that travel  insurance  will provide  cover for treatment in private  
facilities when necessary.  Ancile say our policies state that private hospitals are not covered 
unless medically  necessary and verified  by the assistance company.
So, in essence there is no argument  about  the 2015 policy.  If private  medical assistance is 
deemed necessary  by the authoriser  of the claim, it will be covered. 
policy wording 2016/2017
Ref: DRN42374863Ive looked  at the policy from 2016  and I agree with both Ancile and Mr G, that the 2016 
policy is worded  differently. The 2016 policy  is underwritten by a different  underwriter and it 
sets out under the heading of in case of a serious emergency that your  policy  does not 
cover any costs private medical  treatment unless authorised by us (sic).  
So, the cover provided by the policy hasnt  changed. I agree the policy sets out the term 
using different wording.  But its a different policy  underwritten  by a different underwriter  and 
essentially the cover  provided hasnt changed.  Private  medical  treatment isnt covered on 
either of the policies  unless deemed necessary by the assistance company. 
was this made clear  in the 2016 policy documents?
Mr G says that Ancile did not draw attention  in any way to any change in the terms of the 
policy, and he believed he was buying  cover on the same  terms as in 2015.  He says that the 
insurer changed its wording, to wording under which cover  was excluded  for a private 
hospital unless the insurers had agreed  to it beforehand. He says he only discovered this 
change in November  2018.
Ancile says it did change underwriters  in 2016  but this was in the policy summary. And 
Ancile agrees, the specific wording  under this section may be different, but it says the terms 
still apply and there is no change to what the cover provides.
Ive looked at the policy terms for 2016. As a service we would expect any key changes  to 
be highlighted to consumers in a specific key facts  or policy summary document.  And I can 
see that on the first page of the policy summary  it sets out who the underwriter is. So, 
nothing has gone wrong here. There is a change in underwriter and the policy summary  sets 
out very clearly who the insurance is underwritten  and insured by.
So, what about the actual wording change that Mr G says is different? This time Ive 
reviewed the policy terms and conditions from 2016.  Page three of the policy  terms and 
conditions sets out what to do in the event  of a claim. It also advises what  to do in the event 
of a serious emergency.  It advises you on the basic  things you need to hand, and what to 
remember or be aware of. Under this heading and written in bold writing  it says your policy 
does not cover any costs  private medical  treatment unless authorised by us (sic).
So, the change of underwriter is highlighted as required in the policy summary.  And the 
cover provided by the policy in relation to private  medical treatment hasnt changed,  so 
theres no requirement to highlight this in any way, even though I think  the 2016 policy  does 
highlight it quite well. So, I dont think Ancile did anything wrong here.  
interpreting the wording of the policies
Mr G has argued that the text of the term in the policies is such  that in the 2016 policy  the 
obligation is on the policyholder to contact the insurance company before obtaining 
treatment, and if one had not been able to do so then the insurers were entirely free to reject 
the claim. He says that in the 2015  wording it is quite clear that one may be taken to 
hospital and the obligation  is to contact the emergency assistance  company immediately 
which he has interpreted  as meaning, as soon as possible.  Mr G argues that it is not a 
condition precedent to cover, that the policyholder has contacted the assistance company 
before being admitted to a private facility.  
Ref: DRN42374864From my own experience Ive seen numerous instances where private  medical treatment 
has been  covered due to many varying  different  reasons. But this complaint is about  Ancile,  
and its role in highlighting the specific changes in the policy over the years.  Any issues  with 
the interpretation or tone of the wording  within a policy  itself would need  to be raised with the 
underwriters. So I wont be making  any findings on the different interpretations of the policy 
wording in this decision  against Ancile.  
refund
Mr G has stated that if hed known that the policy  terms were  different, he wouldve taken a 
cheaper policy. But as Ive set out above, even though the policy terms are worded  
differently the cover never changed.  And even though Mr G has provided quotes  he received 
in 2017 for cheaper policies, I can see these are all different policies, provided  and 
underwritten by different insurers.  And its difficult to compare two policies  from different 
insurers. The policies  wont be identical and there would be differences in cover (including  
terms and conditions), different excesses,  cancellation cover  and claim limitations.  New 
quotes also usually  include  online  or new business discounts.  
Ive also looked at the new cover that Mr G has taken out. And I can see that the policy  
document states Private  medical  treatment is not covered  unless authorised specifically by 
the Emergency Assistance Service.  So, it would seem that the cover is the same under the 
new policy  too even  if its slightly cheaper. But as Ive stated above, its difficult  to compare 
polices from different  insurers, and Mr G was always free to shop  around. So, I wont be 
asking Ancile to refund any difference in premium  at this time.  
So, I dont think Ancile has done  anything wrong.  The policy underwriter  changed, and this 
was highlighted  in the policy summary  at renewal in 2016. And even though the term relating 
to private  medical cover is worded differently  in the two policies, theres no change  in cover. 
Private medical treatment  isnt covered by any of the policies Ive seen unless  authorised  
and deemed  necessary.  So, there was no requirement for Ancile to highlight any change. 
Fortunately, Mr G has never had to use this policy in the event of an emergency, so he 
hasnt lost out. And I dont think that Mr G has been  financially  prejudiced by anything  Ancile 
has done. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still dont intend  to 
uphold this complaint and Id like to explain why. 
Ref: DRN42374865Mr G has pointed us to a conversation he had at renewal in 2016 with Ancile. And he says 
the question is not one of failure  to draw attention  to any changes, but of him being told in 
2016 that there was no significant difference in the wording. He says he was told in this call 
that there was no significant difference between the previous (2015) wording and the 2016 
wording. But there were in fact differences  in the wording. And by telling him there  were no 
changes Ancile were  in effect  taking  it on themselves to assure him that the changes made 
no substantial difference to the effect  of the wording, and that is a matter of the interpretation 
of the wording.  He says that because of this reassurance from Ancile  he didnt need  to look 
at the policy  document.  He says that if he had looked at the terms and conditions,  he 
wouldnt have taken  the policy.
Ive listened to the telephone call recording in question. And near the end of the call Mr G 
asks: theres no changes  that I need to know of to the policy terms?  The agent  on the call 
replies and says: let me just see when you bought  your last one. (pause). The only thing is 
in December,  after your last one, weve had new underwriters. So, none of the limits have  
changed on the policy. Weve just got new assistance and a new claims team.
Mr G didnt specifically  ask about changes in policy wording in this call. He asked whether 
there had been any changes to the policy terms. And by saying the only thing is the agent 
in question  is confirming that there are no changes  in the terms of the policy, but that there 
have been changes to the underwriter,  assistance teams and claims teams. 
As Mr G points out, as the seller Ancile have  the responsibility to tell him about  any changes 
to the policy  terms or cover provided.  But as I set out in detail  in my provisional decision,  
there was no change  to the cover provided  by this specific  term in the 2016  policy. There  
was just a change in how the term was worded or written by the new underwriter.  
Mr G also argues  that there is a real difference  between the effect  of the 2015 wording and 
the effect of the 2016 wording. Mr G uses an example of a previous claim he made, and his 
experience from that time to support this. He says However,  I expect  that you will need to 
see a difference not in tone of voice but in the effect of the wordings in relation to a potential  
claim. I may find it difficult to persuade  you of that, since I gather from the way you write that 
you may not consider it appropriate for an ombudsman  (as distinct  from a court) to enter into 
the detail of insurance policies. 
As I set out in my provisional decision,  this complaint is about Ancile, the seller of the policy. 
Ancile dont write the terms and conditions of the policy. But its Anciles duty as the seller  to 
highlight significant  changes in the policy year on year. Any issues with the interpretation or 
tone of the wording within  a policy itself would need to be raised  with the underwriters. So, 
its not that I cant consider the detail of the policy.  Its that I cant consider it in this complaint 
against Ancile as its not responsible for the way in which  the policy terms and conditions  are 
written. As such I wont be making any findings on the different interpretations of the policy 
wording in this decision  against Ancile.
And finally, Mr G says that under  the 2016  wording every  claim for medical expenses  must 
be accompanied by a copy or scan of the insureds  European Health Insurance  Card. He 
says this isnt in the 2015  wording and if the insurers had meant this requirement to apply 
only to claims  arising in the EU, where  an EHIC  would be relevant, they could have said so.
Ref: DRN42374866Weve asked Ancile about this and Ancile  have advised an EHIC card is not a specific  
requirement for making  a claim. The EHIC card is there to reduce medical bills if the client 
requires medical  treatment whist away.  By the nature of what  the card is called Im satisfied 
the EHIC  card is for European claims only and it isnt a requirement  when  submitting  a claim. 
I agree with Mr G. The term as written in the policy from the two different underwriters is 
worded differently.  But as per my provisional  decision, the terms in both policies say the 
same thing. There is no private cover unless private cover  is necessary. And you need to 
call for assistance as soon as you possibly can if an emergency  occurs.  So, Im satisfied  
Ancile made  no errors  here. And I can see no reason to overturn what  Ive said in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4237486