K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning Ltd (represented  by The ER 
Network Ltd) advised them  to take out a mortgage that was unsuitable and unaffordable for 
them.
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs D applied for a mortgage following advice from ER. They borrowed just 
under £95,000 on an interest-only basis for a term of 25 years. They  also had a family 
member acting as guarantor for the mortgage. Mr and Mrs D redeemed  the mortgage  in 
2014 when they sold the house, and moved back in with their parents.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs D complained as they felt the mortgage had been mis-sold. They said 
the mortgage was unsuitable and unaffordable because Mrs D earned  a low income, and 
Mr D was a student at the time.  They felt this was irresponsible lending, as they had no 
repayment vehicle  in place to repay the mortgage  at the end of the term. 
ER provided  their point  of sale documents to show they considered  Mr and Mrs Ds income 
and expenditure  at the time they gave the advice. This information also showed  they 
discussed Mr and Mrs Ds repayment  strategy, as they planned  to switch to capital  
repayment when  the fixed rate product ended, when Mr D would have a job.
Mr and Mrs D also complained about  the fee they paid ER for their advice, but we decided  
they made this complaint out of time, and so dont have the power to consider it. So I wont 
be considering  this aspect of their complaint.
Our investigator looked into things, and said that in her view, the mortgage hadnt  been mis-
sold. She said that based on the income  and expenditure information provided, the mortgage 
was affordable. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed,  so the complaints  been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have said that this mortgage was lent to them irresponsibly. However,  it wasnt  
ERs responsibility to ensure that the bank  lent responsibly. That was the responsibility of the 
lender. ER were responsible, however,  for giving Mr and Mrs D advice  to take out a 
mortgage that was both suitable and affordable for them, given their circumstances at the 
time.
As part of the application, Mr and Mrs D provided details of their income  and expenditure. 
Looking at the paperwork, it shows ER advised Mr and Mrs D that they would find it difficult  
to obtain a mortgage based on their income alone,  and explained that having a guarantor  
may help the application. Mr and Mrs D agreed to have a guarantor for the mortgage and the 
lender accepted their application.
Looking at the information Mr and Mrs D gave about their financial position  at the time, Im 
not persuaded this mortgage  was unaffordable for them. I understand ER did consider  the 
income of the guarantor  at the time, but taking account of Mrs Ds income alone, against  the 
Ref: DRN42115362outgoings they declared at the time, this still left over £100 for them  at the end of the month 
after the mortgage payment had been made. I appreciate this doesnt  give Mr and Mrs D a 
great deal of disposable income each month, but that doesnt mean  the mortgage was 
unaffordable. Considering Mr and Mrs D never  fell into arrears during the life of the 
mortgage, Im satisfied this indicates  that the mortgage was in fact affordable for them.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D say they struggled financially during the time they had the 
mortgage, and made  sure they paid the mortgage payments as a priority - but they havent 
provided anything  to show that they suffered a financial  loss as a result of paying  these  
mortgage payments.  At the time they took out the mortgage, they had no other  credit  
commitments, and their joint income only increased during the time they had the mortgage. 
So whilst I can appreciate  things  may have been tight, Im not persuaded this was the result 
of the advice given by ER.
Mr and Mrs D say they shouldnt have been sold an interest-only mortgage, as they had no 
repayment vehicle  in place. I can see this was discussed at the time the mortgage  was sold, 
and a strategy to repay the mortgage was agreed. The paperwork shows  Mr and Mrs D 
intended to switch the mortgage over to capital and repayment once the initial  fixed rate 
product had ended in 2008. By this point Mr D expected to have a job and so they would be 
able to afford higher monthly  payments.  
This strategy  didnt  materialise. Mr D did in fact get a job after his studies, but theres  nothing  
to show that Mr and Mrs D applied to switch their mortgage  over to capital and repayment 
after this. So whilst  the mortgage remained on interest-only, this wasnt  what was agreed at 
the time the mortgage was sold, and this isnt what ER advised Mr and Mrs D to do. Based 
on the advice  ER gave  at the point  of sale, I dont consider it was unsuitable given the 
repayment strategy that was agreed  at the time.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4211536