K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out with 
a mortgage that started in 1998.  Polices  were  taken out in 1998, 2001 and 2005 and cover  
was also varied at times, including  in 2006. Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank PLC, trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, (Lloyds), mis-sold the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it. I dont have  the PPI application  from 1998  but thats not surprising  given the time 
that has passed. But Mr and Mrs M signed  to take the cover in 2001 and also in 2006. Ive 
not seen anything to make  me think they werent aware of the cover or didnt agree to it on 
the other occasions.  And Mr and Mrs M havent  said anything  to make me think they didnt 
agree to the cover or werent given a choice about it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. And I think it was right for them, based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. For example the cover was on Mr M only. And from what  Ive seen he wasnt affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. Mr and Mrs M have said they shouldve  
been asked about their medical history as it might have affected  their right to claim. But I 
havent seen anything to make me think Mr Ms health wouldve affected his ability to claim.
Also Mr and Mrs M seem to have had a need  for the cover. It helped protect a mortgage  - a 
long term liability secured on their home. From what Ive seen Mr M wouldnt have received 
much work pay if he lost his job or was too sick to work. The PPI provided protection  in case  
he suffered unemployment, accident  or sickness. And for a successful  claim it wouldve paid 
its benefit out on top of any work  benefits  Mr M received.
Mr and Mrs M have  said the PPI terms and conditions werent  mentioned and they werent  
given enough  information to make  an informed decision. Its possible the information Lloyds 
gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been. But I think 
Mr and Mrs M chose  to take the cover  so it looks to me like they wanted this type of cover. 
And, for reasons Ive already given above,  it seems like the PPI would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. Taking  into account  everything I have, I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ms points,  and Im grateful for all the information theyve 
sent. But, for the reasons  Ive already given above, these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs M some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
Ref: DRN41356852doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135685