K821x#15Complaint
Mr R, who is represented by Ms J, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited didnt  agree  to 
him rejecting a faulty car.
Background
In June 2018 Mr R acquired a second-hand  car at a cost of £6,712 funded by a conditional 
sale agreement.  It was some eight  years old and had done  96,000  miles. 
Shortly afterwards a warning light came on and the car was returned to the dealer. 
Subsequently the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) warning light came on and the car went  into 
limp mode. He left the car with the dealer and contacted Moneybarn. It said the DPF issue 
was one of wear and tear and Mr R had covered some 2,000 miles with the car.
The dealer  said that Mr R had failed to bring  the car back as had been agreed  on a couple  of 
occasions and did return it in November having  SORNd it for seven weeks.
In the meantime, Mr A had stopped  making payments and his agreement  was terminated. 
The car was recovered on 14 January 2019 and sold at auction leaving Mr R responsible for 
the shortfall of £8748.20. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He said that Mr R had the right to reject the car if a fault was identified within the first 
30 days. He took it back for repair and the was carried out by the dealer. The subsequent 
issue apparently  related  to the DPF which is a wear and tear item. Our investigator  noted 
that when the car was collected it wasnt noted as a non-runner. He also said there  was no 
evidence that the DPF issue  was related to the initial fault.
He noted that Mr R had made only one payment and Moneybarn had acted correctly  in 
terminating the agreement. Ms J didnt agree and said the car had gone into limp mode 
when on the motorway  with three children in and that had been  scary. She thought  the car 
was unsafe.
The case  was taken  over by another investigator  and she reviewed matters. She considered 
whether Moneybarn had given Mr R a sufficiently  clear  explanation  of his options  before 
terminating the agreement. She said that the business had asked Mr R on 16 November by 
text to make contact to discuss his options.  She thought it could have done more. Given  the 
severity of the situation it could have sent a letter or email outlining the position.
She then considered whether this would have affected the likely  outcome. She noted  that in 
January 2019  Mr R had said that he had chosen not to pay and will not be paying  any 
money. He later said he was not prepared to pay and he would go bankrupt. Our investigator 
concluded that Mr R wouldnt have made  any further payments and so even if Moneybarn  
had given him more  details  about  his options she didnt  believe the outcome would have 
been any different.  However, she didnt think Moneybarn was right to charge him £25 for 
policing the car before auction.  Ms J asked for clarification which our investigator provided. 
No further response  was received from either party and so the matter has been passed to 
me to issue  a final decision
Ref: DRN42580752My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr R had an issue early on and the car was taken back to the dealer. It says it repaired  the 
fault. However, later on a warning light came on relating to the DPF. I have seen no 
evidence to show that this was related to the earlier fault or that the repair  wasnt effective. 
The car was elderly  and had covered a lot of miles and it is not unusual  for the DPF light to 
come on. This is a wear and tear item and while I accept it can be frightening  to have a car 
go into limp mode it doesnt mean it wasnt fit for purpose.
Mr R laid the car off for seven weeks and that too can have an effect on the DPF. A diesel 
car needs a regular run at speed  to keep the DPF clean  and leaving it parked  can lead to a 
DPF warning light coming  on. Overall,  I cannot  say that the car wasnt fit for purpose.  
As for the matter of the termination I agree that Moneybarn could have provided more 
information to Mr A about his options.  It did let him know that he had options, but it seems 
that Mr R didnt want to engage other than to reject  the car. He said that affordability wasnt  
an issue, but he didnt  want  to keep the car. It seems that he decided  that he would simply 
not pay anymore.   
As such I agree with our investigator  that whatever Moneybarn had done Mr R would not 
have acted any differently. Mr R had made his mind up. I also agree that the minor charge of 
£25 for polishing should be written  off.
Ref: DRN42580753My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, but Moneybarn should  not charge Mr 
R £25 for preparing the car for auction. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258075