K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr H says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
Mr H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998.  He paid a monthly amount for the PPI, 
which covered him for accident, sickness or unemployment. If he had made  a successful 
claim, the policy would  have  paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
In 1999, 2002 and 2005, Mr H took out additional borrowing and on each occasion  the 
monthly benefit provided by the PPI policy was increased to cover his new mortgage  
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr H didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this. I say this because Ive been 
given a copy of a document completed  during a financial planning review in 1998, along with 
a letter  which was sent to Mr H following this meeting. In this document is information about 
the type of borrowing that had been recommended  to him, along with details about the 
insurance products  available, including PPI. I can see it was recommended that Mr H take 
out PPI. This paperwork  also shows that Mr H chose not to receive  information  about other 
products and services  that were available which would indicate that he discussed  what 
protection he needed and chose to take out the PPI policy.
For the increase  in 1999 I can see that a separate PPI application form was completed and 
this has been  signed by Mr H. In addition  a separate direct debit mandate form has been 
completed to authorise the new payments to be made from Mr Hs bank account. Mr H has 
signed to agree to this request. For the 2002  and 2005 further  advances, I have seen copies 
of HSBCs electronic application  records and I can see that these  include information  about 
the increases  to the PPI cover. 
So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think HSBC made it clear that the PPI 
policy was optional and Mr H agreed to take it out, knowing  he could refuse  it if he didnt 
want it.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means it had to take reasonable steps to 
recommend something  that was suitable  for him. And based on what Ive been told about his 
circumstances, I think it was. I say this because  he appears to have  been  eligible for the 
policy and doesnt  seem to have been  affected  by any of the main  exclusions or limitations to 
Ref: DRN41989612the policy cover, such as having unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical 
condition of which  he was already aware.
Mr H has told us he would receive six months full pay followed by three months half pay 
from his employer if he was too ill to work and that he had some  savings he could have 
used. But this policy would have paid out in addition to his sick pay and potentially for longer 
than he would have  received full pay. And by having  this cover he would have been able to 
protect any savings he may have  had for another purpose or use them to help cover other 
essential living expenses. So I think this policy could have provided a useful benefit to him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything that Mr H has said, including what  he has said about  being 
sold life cover as well as PPI. Mr H has said he didnt  need PPI as HSBC had also 
recommended he take out life cover. But the covers  provided by the two types of policy  are 
completely different. Life insurance provides a lump  sum to cover  the outstanding borrowing  
in the event of death only whereas  PPI offers to repay a monthly  benefit,  usually equal  to the 
mortgage repayment, in the event that you cannot work due to accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. So while  Mr H may have had life insurance, this does not provide the same 
protection as the PPI.
Mr H has also told us his wife could  have helped him to make the repayments. While  I 
appreciate his wife may have wanted  to help, support from others cant  be guaranteed as 
their circumstances can also change  meaning they are unable to provide such  financial 
assistance. So this point doesnt  alter my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4198961