K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs unhappy that TSB Bank plc says it will reduce the rate of interest paid on his account 
from 5% to 3%. He says it promised the higher rate wouldnt be removed and didnt  say the 
interest rate was variable.  He wants it to continue paying the higher interest rate.  
background
TSB said in its final response that it regularly reviews its products interest rates  given 
changing market  conditions. It decided to pay a competitive 3% interest  rate on its Classic  
Plus account  for balances  up to £1,500 from 2 July 2019. But until that date customers  
would still benefit  from the previous 5% rate. Mr H has had the benefit of this higher rate for 
longer than one year.  The accounts terms and conditions  also say that the interest rate is 
variable.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said TSB was entitled  to change 
the interest rate in line with the accounts  terms and conditions.  And the 5% rate will have 
been paid for over a year when  it is withdrawn.  Theres nothing suggesting this rate would be 
fixed. It remained variable  and can change at any time.  So, she cant  say TSB has done 
anything wrong.
Mr H remains  unhappy. He says he understands rates are variable but still believes this was 
overruled by TSBs promise of a 5% rate that wouldnt  be removed. Hes asked for an 
ombudsman review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs frustration but I cant agree  that TSB has done anything  wrong.
TSB has explained the circumstances which led to the interest rate being increased to 5% 
on 1 May 2018  as a temporary thank  you following its IT problems. And it said it wont be 
taken away after a year.  TSB says it kept its promise  not to reduce the rate after one year 
and it never  said the 5% rate would continue indefinitely. As it says it has in fact only 
reduced it in line with market conditions some  14 months later.  
I think that TSBs promise was to pay the 5% rate for at least  a year and I note Mr H has 
therefore had the benefit of what TSB promised. TSB certainly never promised that the 5% 
interest rate would continue indefinitely and never go down. 
The terms and conditions  of the account, which Mr H agreed  to when he opened it, also 
make clear  that the interest rate is variable  and that means it can go up and down. I dont 
think this term was amended or superseded by TSBs decision to thank customers  with the 
higher 5% rate for a time. The terms and conditions also say TSB will give notice of any rate 
changes, which it did here.
Furthermore TSB is entitled to exercise its commercial  judgment when deciding the interest 
rates applicable  to its various products. And thats not something we would interfere with.
Ref: DRN44101132Overall I think  TSB kept its promise  to Mr H to pay the 5% interest rate for at least a year.  It 
was also entitled  to exercise its commercial judgment and acted in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions when reducing  the interest rate to 3% from 2 July 2019. 
Consequently I dont think I can fairly or reasonably now require  TSB to continue paying  the 
5% interest rate on Mr Hs account as hed like.
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4410113