K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which is attached  and forms part 
of this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Mr 
and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. In summary, this was because  I didnt think  the PPI 
was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs N and I didnt think  it had been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs N responded  to confirm they accepted my provisional decision.  Santander  didnt 
respond by the deadline  Id set.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for me to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a different decision to that set out previously in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42070002copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. The policy  provided cover for Mr N 
only. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
Our adjudicator didnt think it was likely Santander had done enough to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs N 
that the PPI was optional. I dont agree.
It doesnt  look like Mr and Mrs N applied  for the PPI when  they completed their mortgage application 
form  the section on this relating to PPI has been left blank. It looks like they were contacted  by 
Santander some time later and it was then PPI was discussed. Although Santander hasnt been able 
to provide the paperwork (which isnt surprising  given  the time that has passed both since the PPI 
was sold and it was cancelled), I do know Mr and Mrs N would have had to complete and sign a direct 
debit  so it couldnt have been  set up without their agreement. Ive also seen a letter Mr N was sent 
that talks about him choosing  to take out the PPI and this also included details of the cover that had 
been agreed.
Given the above  and the fact Mr and Mrs N havent said anything about  not agreeing to take out PPI 
or being told it was compulsory as part of their complaint, I think its likely Santander did make it clear  
that they didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs N so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example Mr N wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to 
have had a need for the cover. Although  I accept Mr N would have received generous sick pay from 
his employer at the time, the PPI would  have  paid out on top of this and for longer than its likely he 
would have received full pay. 
I think  the PPI would  have been useful to Mr and Mrs N if had Mr N been off sick for an extended 
length of time or if he was made redundant. It would  mean they wouldnt have to worry about their 
mortgage repayments and any sick pay Mr N received  and Mrs Ns income could  have been used for 
other expenses.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs N about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive already explained, its likely  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have 
put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN42070003Having considered  everything, I currently dont think Santander  mis-sold the PPI.
Ive also thought  about  whether Santander needs to give Mr and Mrs N some of the commission they 
paid back. The Supreme Court ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to all credit  agreements. As 
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage agreement ended before 6 April 2008,  they dont apply.  So Santander 
doesnt need  to refund  any of the commission Mr and Mrs N paid for the PPI they had with that 
mortgage.
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4207000