K820x#14complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the charges  HSBC  UK Bank Plc (T/A First Direct) applied to her 
account. 
background
Miss R has a First Direct current account,  which has an agreed overdraft arrangement. Over 
the past two years shes made regular use of her arranged overdraft, and sometimes  shes  
exceeded it  going into an unarranged overdraft. 
First Direct  has applied  fees and charges to Miss Rs account as a result of her use of the 
unarranged overdraft. Miss R said these charges have left her in a cycle of hardship.  She 
said her household income  is low and has decreased even further as a result  of her partner 
losing their benefits entitlement. She said this all restricted her ability  to pay these charges, 
which had exceeded  £180 since 2017. 
In March 2019 Miss R complained to First Direct about the fairness  of these charges. She 
thought they were disproportionate and wanted it to refund all charges since  2017.  First 
Direct responded by saying it wanted  to understand Miss Rs financial position. So it asked 
her to provide a detailed breakdown of her income  and expenditure. It said this was required 
for it to consider whether  it was able to waive any fees shed been charged. And it gave her 
a personal budget plan (PBP) to assist with this.
But Miss R refused to complete this PBP.  So, First Direct said it wasnt  able to help her by 
looking to see if there  were ways in which it could treat her positively and sympathetically. It 
said it had applied the charges correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Rs 
account. So, it didnt  think it had done  anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with First Directs response, Miss R referred  her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt  uphold this complaint. They 
thought the charges First Direct  had applied were in line with the terms and conditions of her 
account. And they didnt think it had acted unfairly  here. They also thought First Direct had 
responded appropriately to what Miss R told it about her financial position. But Miss R 
disagreed with our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Miss R feels  strongly  about  this 
complaint. So I know  how disappointing this decision will be for her. But I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
But before I do, Id like to explain  that my decision isnt intended, in any way, to suggest that 
Miss R hasnt been through extremely challenging circumstances. Im really sorry to see how 
difficult things have  been for her. But my decision on this case is based on the actions  of 
First Direct. Its for me to determine whether it did something wrong  and I dont think it has. 
Miss R has argued that the charges arent  fair or proportionate. And I can see that First 
Direct addressed this in its final response  by referring to the Unfair  Terms in Consumer 
Ref: DRN46300622Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR)  and OFT ruling. Ill focus  on this part of Miss Rs 
complaint first.
I understand the point Miss R is making here.  But, the types of charges shes complaining  
about were considered by the Supreme Court  in the OFT test case  and it concluded that it 
couldnt consider  the fairness of these charges under the UTCCR. So the amount of charges  
cant be challenged on the grounds  theyre too high. But our service can consider  whether 
the charges that were applied to Miss Rs account were applied  in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account. So Ill address whether I think  they were.
Ive considered what the terms and conditions of Miss Rs account say about  overdraft  
charges and fees. Having done so, Im satisfied that the information  First Direct provided  in 
its terms and conditions  is clear,  transparent  and explained in plain and intelligible  language. 
So, I think Miss R ought to have known the circumstances in which she would incur  a fee. 
Im satisfied that the fees Miss R incurred here were  in line with the terms and conditions of 
her account.  It follows that I cant fairly conclude that First Direct did anything wrong in 
applying these fees to her account.
Miss R said the fees she incurred added to her financial  burden. But, while I sympathise with 
her, theres no evidence  she told First Direct she was experiencing financial difficulties while  
it was applying charges to her account until March  2019. 
Its clear that Miss R thinks  First Direct should  have been aware  that she was suffering 
financial hardship prior to this point. She thinks  it should  have  seen this from her income and 
expenditure activity  in her account.  However, Im not persuaded that it couldve been  aware  
that she was experiencing difficulties prior to March 2019 just from how she conducted her 
account. But once  it was aware of her financial difficulties it was required to explore her 
financial position to see how it could treat her positively and sympathetically. And based on 
the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied First Direct  tried to do this. Ill explain  why.
Miss R raised her concerns about the charges she had incurred on 9 March  2019 in writing.  
And, two days later,  First Direct had contacted her to try and understand those concerns. Its 
clear to me it wanted  to explore her financial circumstances to see how it could assist  her. 
And when  it couldnt  engage with Miss R it sent final response letters to her dated 14 and 
20 March. This demonstrates  that First Direct responded proactively to Miss Rs complaint.
I also think it tried its best to understand Miss Rs financial position.  I say this because  it 
asked her on a number of occasions  to provide a detailed breakdown  of her income and 
expenditure and she was sent a PBP to assist  with that process. It also referred Miss R to 
debt charities, which I think was helpful.
I can see that Miss R isnt happy First Direct asked her to complete a PBP so it could assess  
her financial  circumstances. But this is its usual procedure here. And I think  it was 
reasonable for it to want to explore Miss Rs financial position  with her. It made  a number  of 
requests for financial information. And Im satisfied it needed to review her financial position 
with her before it could  determine what financial assistance it would be able to offer her. 
Had Miss R completed the PBP she was sent First Direct couldve taken steps to help her. 
But she chose not to provide the information it needed to complete a full financial review. 
And, while she was entitled  to do that, this meant that First Direct  wasnt able to explore how 
it could assist her. So, I cant fairly criticise it for not doing more  here.
Ref: DRN46300623Ive considered all the points  Miss R has made  and I appreciate  the reasons why she 
brought this complaint to our service. But I think First Direct has acted fairly and reasonably 
in all the circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4630062