K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is concerning the amount  of compensation  National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) has offered to settle  his complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy taken out alongside a loan.
background
In March 1998 Mr B took out a loan (reference ending 4100) and at the same time bought  a 
PPI policy. The cost of the policy was added  to the amount  Mr B borrowed so he paid 
interest at the loan rate on the premium.
Mr B has now complained he was mis-sold the PPI and NatWest  has agreed  to uphold his 
complaint. NatWest has offered total compensation  of £913.46 at the calculation date. Mr B 
isnt happy with the amount of compensation as he says as it was so long ago he paid for 
the policy he thinks the interest  he is getting  back should be more.
Our adjudicator said what NatWest had offered was fair. Mr B still wasnt happy and asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold Mr Bs complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this 
decision Im not considering how the PPI came  to be sold to Mr B. Im only looking at 
whether the compensation NatWest  has offered to settle the complaint is fair. 
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold we expect the business to pay back to the consumer 
all the costs paid for the PPI plus some compensatory interest  for being out of pocket. That 
is what NatWest has done in this case and I have  looked carefully at the calculations it has 
provided.
The premium Mr B paid for the PPI was £316.00 and he added  this amount to his loan. So 
he paid interest on this over the three  years the loan was running. The interest he paid for 
the PPI was £92.09, making the total cost he paid for the PPI £408.08. 
In addition to refunding  this PPI cost amount, NatWest also needs to pay Mr B 
compensatory interest  for any time he was out of pocket. Whilst he was making  the 
repayments to his loan Mr B paid an amount each month for the PPI cost, so each month  he 
increased the amount he was out of pocket. By the time the loan ended he was out of pocket 
for the total costs of the PPI.
I have looked  at the calculations NatWest had provided and can see it has worked  out the 
compensatory interest  to reflect the time and amounts Mr B was out of pocket. In total to the 
date of calculation  in February 2019 the compensatory interest amount is £631.72 before 
tax.  Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs required tax to be deducted from the 
compensatory interest  at basic rate and Mr B can request a tax certificate  for the tax 
deducted from NatWest  if he needs one.
In total the costs of the PPI and the compensatory  interest after tax comes  to £913.46.
Ref: DRN42664092I think what NatWest has worked  out is fair compensation for the mis-sold  PPI with loan 
ending 4100. NatWest stated it would update the compensatory interest  to the date of final 
payment. So if the compensation  has not yet been paid it will need to recalculate  the 8% 
simple interest to bring  this up to date,  to the date of actual  payment  of the compensation.
I know Mr B has said he thinks  the interest should be more as it is a long time since he 
bought the PPI. But this standard rate of 8% simple  interest after 1993 is accepted as a fair 
rate when working out compensatory interest in cases of this sort.
So I think the approach taken and the compensation offered is fair and Im not telling  
NatWest to do anything  different.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above the compensation calculated by National Westminster 
Bank Plc for the mis-sold PPI policy is fair. If not yet paid the 8% simple interest will need to 
be updated to the date of final payment to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4266409