K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought the policy in 2008  sometime after taking out a credit  card.  He applied for the 
credit card by returning a mailshot. The PPI policy was sold afterwards over the phone.  
At the time,  Mr A was employed as a car valet. He has told us he wasnt entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  his credit card should he be unable to 
work. Its likely Mr A was entitled to statutory redundancy pay. Mr A has said he was in good 
health at the time of sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr As credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Mr As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  
However, for ease  of reference, I will refer to its representations as being  Mr As from now 
on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr A says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr A believes  there  to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr A about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr A and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN41848612Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint  both parties have seen and provided 
their responses to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent my provisional findings to all parties  in December  2020. I invited them  to provide any 
further comments or evidence they wished me to consider, but none of the parties had 
anything further  to add. I therefore see no reason to depart from my findings which are as 
follows:
my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
The credit agreement started after 6 April 2007.That means the unfair relationship provisions  
set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 
about s140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin  judgment, also 
apply. I will come back to this later on.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN41848613General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Barclays  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr As complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr A sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mr A, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mr A suffered  loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage.
Ref: DRN41848614- If I conclude Mr A has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
taking into account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), 
Barclays should have  disclosed  the commission it received - and if it didnt, what  
would be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr As alleged mis-sale complaint. I have also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission and Ive decided  that Barclays should 
have disclosed the commission it received.  My findings are set out below. 
did Mr A know  he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Ive seen a copy of Mr As 
credit agreement. Theres a separate section  for PPI which  makes  it clear the policy  is 
optional. Although Mr A signed in this box as if he wanted it, he didnt tick the box  so it 
wasnt added to his account when it was opened. However, it was later sold when Mr A 
called to activate  his credit card.
Barclays has provided a copy of the call script that was in use at the time. It makes clear that 
the customer should be told the policy is optional.  And as Mr A hasnt suggested he didnt 
think he had a choice,  or that the policy was added without his consent,  I think its more  likely 
Mr A knew  the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Both Barclays and Mr A agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr A with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
Barclays has been able to provide evidence that it explored Mr As personal circumstances 
with him to ensure the PPI was suitable for him. In doing so, it identified  that Mr A didnt 
need all aspects of the policy because he already had life cover. So Barclays only 
recommended accident, sickness  and involuntary  unemployment cover. 
Barclays established that Mr A wouldnt have been affected by any of the significant  
limitations or exclusions, so I am persuaded that Barclays did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr A given his circumstances.  So Im satisfied 
Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr A met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr A had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr As ability to continue to meet  
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN41848615-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr A.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr A. There  was 
nothing about  Mr As employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr As circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr A sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr A was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because, looking at the sales script,  I think Mr A would have been told this  at 
the very least  during the discussion with the adviser.  I think  its unlikely Mr A would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was. 
Im also satisfied from the script that Mr A ought reasonably to have understood that the 
policy cost 70p per £100  of the statement balance.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost (the fact that the premiums would be added to the account 
balance, attracting interest if unpaid at the end of the month,  and were  payable during a 
claim) before  Mr A agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr A, Im not persuaded Barclays  did 
enough to present information about the policy cost in a way that was fair and reasonable to 
Mr A. Im not persuaded that Barclays gave Mr A all of the information  he needed about the 
policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation and take 
out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr A has raised  a number of general points 
with regard to the requirements on a business when  providing information in PPI sales.  He 
suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like his. Ive considered  these carefully 
and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN41848616-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr A considers to be poor  value  and the fact 
that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in insurance  law 
imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract to disclose material facts and not to make  
material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what a court would  say  I think  its 
unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims ratio 
information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mr A 
has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Barclays ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr A? To what extent  did Mr A suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr A. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr A suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr A would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
While Im persuaded that Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr A, I have found  that the policy costs were not 
accurately disclosed.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr A has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained the costs 
properly, Mr A would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr A says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr A had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he would be paying was not exactly what he would be paying. 
Ref: DRN41848617As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr As circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr A ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover 10%. But, I accept that Barclays didnt 
make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr A didnt  know  this, the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would  reasonably 
have thought from the information he based  his decision  to take out the policy on and found 
acceptable. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr A would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.   
Mr A says the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear  that, 
where a significant  failing is identified,  it should be presumed the consumer wouldnt have 
taken out PPI, unless  there is evidence to outweigh the presumption.  They  say we should 
follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
Ref: DRN41848618was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mr A compensation, as that would  put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr A thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr A, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2008 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr A says a court might  take if it were  to find Barclays  
negligently misrepresented  the contract to him and about the remedy a court might award if 
it were to find that Barclays had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr A in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done.
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Mr As complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mr A to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Ref: DRN41848619Mr A has made a number  of representations about the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mr A 
said that:
-Barclays failed to tell him about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to pay 
claims), and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If Barclays had told him about  those  things, he would  not have taken out the policy,  
so he should get back all the money he paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  and the FCAs ICOB rules  did 
not specifically  require Barclays to tell Mr A about commission  or about the claims 
ratio (nor, for reasons Ive already explained, did the duty of utmost  good faith require 
that). As the FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance  to businesses for the 
handling of PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose 
commission was not in breach of ICOB/ICOBS (or the industry  codes which 
preceded them) and would  not  in and of itself  have been a breach of FCAs 
Principles for Businesses. Those Principles include a requirement on businesses  to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade  associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
Ref: DRN418486110-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.   Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as Barclays did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would  have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether 
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship  
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the 
appropriate remedy - if any.
-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Barclays has not sought to rebut it in 
Mr As case. In fact, Barclays made an offer or payment to Mr A in 2017  calculated in 
line with the FCAs  guidance.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that Barclays didnt  tell Mr A about the high levels of commission  and profit share  paid 
in this case, I think its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  Barclays  
and Mr A was unfair under section  140A.  As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs rules require 
Barclays to determine  appropriate redress in those  circumstances, and I have had regard to 
those rules below in deciding what compensation it would be fair to award Mr A in order to 
remedy that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that Barclayss failure  to disclose information about the claims ratio also 
meant there  was an unfair relationship.  But in some respects, commission and the claims 
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums 
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that Barclays should have told Mr A about 
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
Ref: DRN418486111-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
Barclays and Mr A was unfair  under section 140A  because it didnt tell him about the 
high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A insofar as it failed  
to disclose the high commission and profit share paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mr A should get a full refund  
of the premiums he paid to put him in the position  he would have been in if he hadnt taken 
the policy out, or a full refund of the commission and profit  share Barclays  received, or a 
refund of the commission paid above a certain point  for example by taking the approach 
set out in the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been offered by Barclays).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr A says that he should get a full refund of all the PPI premiums  
he has paid. In summary, Mr A says that the high level of commission (and/or the low claims 
ratio)  together with the policys limitations  and exclusions  meant that the PPI policy 
generally represented poor value for money  for him. I should therefore find that Mr A would 
not have purchased the policy had he known of the level of commission   and accordingly, 
he should receive a refund of all the PPI premiums he paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mr A suggests  it does  i.e. that 
he necessarily would  not have purchased the policy  had the level of commission been 
disclosed to him at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Barclays  did not disclose the high 
level of commission to Mr A, the court would necessarily order Barclays to return all the 
premiums Mr A paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court  would necessarily find 
that Mr A would not have purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the high 
commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr A 
Ref: DRN418486112in order to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact Barclays did not disclose the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mr A, I have, as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.   These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach to assessing  merits 
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin  judgment and ignored the findings of the Competition 
Ref: DRN418486113Commission that the non-disclosure of commission  was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Ref: DRN418486114Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mr A is now making   i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
level of commission means that I should find that Mr A would not have purchased  the policy 
had he known about the level of commission at the time he bought  the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Ref: DRN418486115Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mr As is that a firm should  pay a sum equivalent to the commission  and profit  
share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, together with interest. According to the 
FCA, compensation calculated in this way would fairly remove  the element of unfairness  
caused by the existence  of the undisclosed  high commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mr As 
representations, my provisional conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mr A has urged  me to conclude that because Barclayss failure to disclose the high 
level of commission (and/or profit share) made his relationship with Barclays unfair, I 
must find that he wouldnt have purchased the policy  had he known about these 
Ref: DRN418486116matters at the time he purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mr As suggestion.  As I said above, I recognise  it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr A at the time of the 
sale, he might have  decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, I 
am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Mr A by the failure to disclose the high level of commission   I am 
not, as Mr A suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have purchased  
the policy but for Barclayss  failure  to disclose  the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for Barclays to calculate  
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Mr A 
paid for his PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving  Mr A with the policy Ive concluded  above he would have taken out if 
Barclays had met its obligations  when acting  as an insurance seller   but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mr A in line with the FCAs guidance  at step 2, this 
effectively reduced  the overall  cost of the policy by an amount  equal  to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source  of the 
unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mr A in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left him with the policy I believe he would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  him for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.  
If Barclays has paid Mr A compensation  on this basis, I do not consider it should  do anything  
further. 
My final decision
Ref: DRN418486117Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr As complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Barclays  
Bank UK Plc should pay Mr A an amount equivalent to the commission and profit  share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4184861