K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Turners (Ipswich) Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 
2007.
background
Mr E took out a Hire Purchase (HP) agreement in 2007 to purchase a car. The HP 
agreement had a zero percent interest rate. Mr E paid a £5,500 deposit and received £5,000 
part exchange for his previous car. He borrowed the remaining £10,500 over 36 months.
At the same time he was sold a PPI policy. The PPI policy was funded with a single premium  
of £570.24 which was added to the borrowing. The PPI would repay the outstanding debt if 
Mr E had died or suffered  a critical illness. The PPI cost Mr E £15.84  per month.                  
My understanding is that Mr E made all the repayments over the 36 month term of the 
agreement.
In 2017 Mr E complained to Turners  about the sale of the PPI. Unhappy with its response  he 
asked this service to step in.
Turners didnt think the complaint was one we could look at under our rules  around 
jurisdiction. Another  ombudsman issued a decision on this issue in January 2019.             
The ombudsman found that we could  look at Mr Es complaint.
An adjudicator from this service then recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. 
The adjudicator thought  the policy sold to Mr E by Turners was not suitable for him.
Turners disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Turners have continued to state that it believes the complaint is outside this services  
jurisdiction. However another ombudsman has already separately explained to Turners  why 
the complaint  is within our jurisdiction. So in this decision I am making a finding on whether 
the policy was mis-sold.
From what  Ive seen Turners advised Mr E to take out the PPI policy.  So it had to make  sure 
it was right for him. I dont think it was for the following reason.
Mr E has told us his original intention was to buy the car outright without finance. He says he 
had the funds available to do so. Mr E says he only took out the HP agreement because  he 
was offered zero percent  finance over 36 months  which meant he could leave his savings  
intact. So Mr E says he had no need  for the PPI which  Turners  sold him. 
Ive thought about this and Ive looked at Mr Es circumstances  in 2007.
Ref: DRN47304832Mr E has shown  us his current account  statement  for December 2007. And I can see that 
even after paying  the deposit  of £5,500 to Turners, Mr E had a balance of more  than 
£30,000 available.  
Mr E has been consistent throughout his complaint.  Ive found his testimony to be 
persuasive and plausible. Taking  everything  into account I think Mr E only took the finance 
as it was zero percent  and that he had resources that could have been used to clear the 
debt if he died or was diagnosed with a critical  illness.
It follows that I dont think Mr E had any real need  for the policy Turners recommended  he 
buy. So I dont  think the policy was suitable  for his needs and was mis-sold. I dont think     
Mr E would have bought  the policy if Turners had told him it was unsuitable. So Mr E has 
lost out and Turners  needs to put things right.
putting things right
Turners should put Mr E in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. As the HP 
agreement was zero percent, the single premium  added  to finance did not attract interest. So 
Turners should:
Pay Mr E the amount  he paid each month for the PPI, in this case  the monthly 
amount was £15.84.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back.      
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Turners  can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Turners to take off tax from this interest.  Turners  must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and direct Turners  (Ipswich) Ltd to pay Mr E 
compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019. .
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4730483