K820x#14Complaint
Miss D complains that transactions were  made  on a National Westminster Bank Plc account 
in her name leaving it in debt. She says she didnt  make  these transactions. She says she 
didnt know this account was opened and wants NatWest not to hold her liable for the debt.
Background
Miss D opened an account  with NatWest online in December 2018.
Miss D thought the account hadnt  been successfully opened. She says she didnt receive a 
card or a PIN. Miss D says she became  aware  the account existed,  and transactions  had 
been made on this account when she received a letter from NatWest requesting  payment  of 
£3,206.17.
NatWest say the bank  account was successfully opened on the 12 December 2018.  They  
say a card and PIN were sent to Miss D at her home  address on two separate  days. The 
account was used for numerous transactions between December 2018 and January 2019. In 
4 January 2019, the account  was credited with foreign currency  and funds were withdrawn in 
pounds against  this. The currency later was found to be invalid and so the money was re-
debited leaving the account with an outstanding balance of over £3,000.  
Miss D complained to NatWest. They said they were holding  Miss D liable  for the debt. They 
thought it was likely she knew the account existed because of the activity on the account. 
They said the number  registered for mobile banking was the one she had provided them  with 
when she opened  the account in December 2018.  
Miss D was unhappy she was being held liable for the debt, so she complained  to our 
service.
Miss D told us she was abroad at the time of these transactions so it couldnt have been  her. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said Miss D hadnt  been able to 
explain how the card and PIN were intercepted. She thought Miss D was aware of the 
existence of the account as she had transferred £3 in and out of the account using the 
mobile banking  app. She thought as Miss D was abroad during the transactions it was more 
likely she had allowed someone she knew to use the account.
Miss D disagreed with the view, she said it was NatWest that had told her the account hadnt 
been opened in the first place. And Miss D said she wasnt in the country so it couldnt have 
been her making  the transactions. She thought  CCTV evidence would show it wasnt her.
Our investigator replied, she said CCTV evidence wouldnt show  if Miss D had allowed 
someone else to use her account. She checked with NatWest and there  hadnt  been any 
calls between NatWest and Miss D during the relevant period. She said Miss D hadnt been 
able to explain how someone could have got hold of the card and PIN given what Miss D 
had told her about living with her family  and no one else having  access to the post. Miss D 
insisted she hadnt  authorised anyone  to use her account.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN45989962My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
Generally, NatWest can hold Miss D liable for the outstanding debt if the evidence  suggests 
its more likely than not, she made  or authorised the transactions herself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence Miss Ds genuine card and PIN were  used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own enough to enable NatWest to hold Miss D liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Miss D consented to the withdrawals 
being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude  Miss D 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Miss D has said she didnt  know the application  to her NatWest account  had been 
successful, so she didnt  know  the account existed. Her account  was opened online, 
and NatWest have  explained an email would  have been sent to Miss D at the time to 
confirm the account  had been  successfully opened. I can see that the email matches 
Miss Ds email address.
A transfer of £3 was carried  out from one of Miss Ds accounts  to the NatWest 
account using  the mobile  banking app a week after the NatWest account  was open. 
When our investigator  asked Miss D about it, she said that she had forgotten  she had 
carried out the transfer. So, I think its likely that Miss D knew she had an account 
with NatWest.
Miss D says she didnt receive  the card and PIN. Its unclear  whether  Miss D was in 
Thailand at the time but in any event, she has told us she lives at home with her 
parents and siblings and the letterbox isnt shared. So, I cant see how the card and 
PIN were  compromised.
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed  to 
obtain Miss Ds card and PIN and known her account number to make the foreign 
currency transfer. The bank  has provided  evidence to show  the card and PIN were 
sent by Royal Mail on two consecutive days to the address  Miss D provided  in her 
application. Miss D thinks an unknown third-party fraudster intercepted  the card and 
PIN. I have considered  this, but I think its unlikely a fraudster  would be able to 
intercept the post on two separate occasions. Even if they did and an opportunistic 
fraudster was able to intercept both card and PIN on one occasion,  the account  
number isnt printed  on the card so the fraudster wouldnt have known these details. 
Miss D has provided us evidence she was abroad at the time of the disputed 
activities so she has said it couldnt  have been her that carried  out these 
transactions. But NatWest  are entitled to hold Miss D liable for the transactions if 
shes authorised  a third party to use her card and PIN. And I think  this is most likely 
whats happened here. 
Ref: DRN45989963Based on everything  Ive seen I think its fair and reasonable  for NatWest to hold Miss D 
liable for the debt because overall, I think its more  likely than not Miss D allowed someone  
she knew to make the transactions. It follows I wont be asking NatWest  to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4598996