K821x#15Complaint
Miss S is seeking to recover £10,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from her
bank account  as a result of a third-party  scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Miss S unwittingly authorised the payment  
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from
the payee bank.
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
29 June 2021.  I provide  a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to partially
uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
1. It is common  ground that Miss S authorised six scam payments totalling £10,000 on 10
and 11 February 2019. Miss S was duped by the scammer into transferring five of the
payments via her online banking and one via telephone banking. They deceived her into
thinking she was investing the money for profit after Miss S had seen their advert on a
social media platform.
2. I accept this was an authorised payment even though Miss S was the victim of a
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So,
although she was tricked into making the payment, under the Payment Services
Regulations, Miss S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
3. However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in
some cases  declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
4. Having reviewed  Miss Ss account  statements for the six months prior to the first
payment, I think the activity on the account was unusual and out of character for Miss S
by the point of the third transfer of £1,500. Miss S didnt make payments for such  a large
amount from her account  it was mostly used at the time for low value card payments
and ATM withdrawals. However,  I think  the amount of the first two transfer on their own
wouldnt be enough to fairly conclude that HSBC shouldve flagged those transaction for
additional checks. But by the third payment, there  was a series of unusual activity  and a
Ref: DRN45003332pattern forming. By this point she had set up another  new payee  and was attempting to
send another  larger than usual amount of money  all within the matter of a couple of
hours. So, when  taken altogether, Im satisfied there were signs Miss S could be at risk
of fraud  by the time she made the third transfer.
5. It follows  that I wouldve then expected HSBC to contact Miss S and satisfy itself she
wasnt at risk of any financial harm. As it was, Miss S contacted  HSBC  to make the third
transfer as she was struggling to do so on her online banking.  So, HSBC  had an
opportunity at this point,  regardless  of whether the payment triggered  on its system, to
establish if Miss S was at risk of fraud.  Im not satisfied it did so. Having listened to the
call, the advisor  didnt  ask Miss S any questions at all about the purpose of the transfer
she was making, or the previous activity that had taken place on her account in the
hours before. Nor did HSBC offer any scam warning. Miss S started the call by saying
the payment was for a friend, but no questions were asked following this except to
enable the transfer. And as Ive mentioned above, this activity shouldve flagged  as
unusual and out of character, so this conversation was not sufficient to protect Miss S
and prevent her from financial  harm.
6. Miss S was told by the scammer to tell HSBC  the payment  was a loan for a friend.  But I
dont think this means the scam couldnt  have been prevented  had HSBC  done more.
Im satisfied that had HSBC asked Miss S more questions about  the activity  on her
account, the scam wouldve  come to light. If the bank staff had probed Miss S on the
reason for the payment it seems likely that Miss S wouldnt have been able to
satisfactorily answer the questions  especially provide a full cover story for all the
activity that had taken  place  - and the scam  wouldve  unravelled. I say this because
when taken with the first two payments made  in the hours before this one, the activity
on the account didnt match the very brief cover story Miss S had been given. If probed,
I dont think Miss S wouldve been  able to provide a satisfactory answer to questions
such as if the £1,500  was a loan for a friend, what were the first two large payments
shed made  for? Why were these going  to someone different? How did she know these
people? Did she have  a plan for them to repay  her? It seems entirely plausible  that the
story wouldve fallen  apart  at this point and Im satisfied, on balance, Miss S wouldve
divulged the real reason for the transfers.
A more informative conversation could then have  taken  place  and HSBC  could have
established Miss S had found the investment on social media  and had done  little to no 
research into this. This is a well-known  scam,  so had Miss S been given a scam warning 
following this conversation, there is every possibility it wouldve made her think twice about 
continuing with the investment.  I therefore think on balance, that HSBC couldve prevented 
Miss S from sending anything from the third payment onwards.
7. In light of my conclusions above, its necessary in this case to consider whether the bank
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But having
checked with the bank  the payments were sent to, I can see that the first two transfers
were removed almost immediately by the scammer. So, even if HSBC  had intervened
and prevented the rest of the scam at the point  Ive highlighted above, it wouldnt have
had time to contact the receiving bank before the payments were withdrawn.
8. As Ive said, I think HSBC were  at fault here for not taking sufficient steps to protect Miss
S. But Ive gone  onto consider whether Miss S should bear some  responsibility for her
loss on this occasion and whether I should make  any deductions  to reflect  this. Miss S
Ref: DRN45003333cant recall what was discussed with the scammer  when she first made  contact with
them. But having  reviewed the messages between Miss S and the scammer following
her first payment of £700, it is clear  some of the promises made to her with regard to the
profits she could make were unrealistic at best.  For example, she was told her original
investment of £700 had made  a return of almost £6,000  in the space  of an hour or so.
She was then also told that if she invested  a further  £2,300, she could expect to make
600% profit on this  all whilst her initial investments were completely  protected.
The reason  I think  Miss S should  bear some responsibility for her loss is that, following
the too good to be true nature  of these promises, she didnt  pause  to ask any questions
or do any research into the type of investment or the person/organisation  she was
interacting with. She also hadnt received any contract or paperwork from the scammer
to detail where her money was going  or what it was being invested into. She just
proceeded to send  money as requested. Given what she was told about  the investment,
I believe a reasonable person ought  to have suspected something might not be quite
right and taken steps to verify the investment before  proceeding. Taking this into
account, whilst HSBC  shouldve prevented  the scam from the third payment onwards, it
seems fair to hold Miss S responsible for 50% of this loss.
9. In the circumstances  Im satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Miss S
for the loss she suffered  from the third payment (inclusive)  onwards with a 50% reduction
on this amount, together with interest  to compensate her for being deprived of the money
she lost. Im satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money from Miss S it would
have remained in her savings account, so interest should be at that rate.
10. I also think it is appropriate to make  a modest  award of £150  for the distress and
inconvenience Miss S has suffered. In reaching  that conclusion  Im mindful that her loss
was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and they were authorised
transactions, which Ive determined  Miss S should also bear some  responsibility for. But
HSBC could ultimately have prevented some of the payments and the subsequent upset
caused by being without  this money.
HSBC responded  to my provisional decision letting  me know it is happy  to agree as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Miss S also responded accepting the provisional decision but did comment  that she thinks  
the compensation for distress  and inconvenience  could be higher given the service she 
received from HSBC following her reporting the scam. She says she was effectively told to 
figure it out on her own and given no help or assistance. 
My findings   
Ive reconsidered  all available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that both parties agreed with my provisional  decision, I see no reason to depart from 
what I concluded. 
However, I would  like to address Miss Ss comments around the level of compensation I 
suggested. I appreciate  how distressed Miss S mustve been  in the immediate aftermath  of 
finding out shed been scammed.  And it can be the case that it feels  very much like the bank 
is unable to help at that point  mostly because all it can do is contact the bank the money 
Ref: DRN45003334was sent to and try to retrieve it. And HSBC did do this, so Im satisfied it took the 
appropriate actions,  even if this did feel inadequate  to Miss S. 
As explained in my provisional decision,  some of the distress Miss S felt couldve been 
avoided as HSBC  couldve prevented  part of her loss. But given my conclusion that HSBC 
couldnt have  prevented  the scam altogether,  I feel the level of compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
For these reasons, my decision remains unchanged  from that reached  in my provisional 
decision and I partially uphold it. 
My final decision  
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint about HSBC  UK Bank  Plc 
and to require  the bank  to:
Refund Miss S £3,500
Pay interest on this amount  at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the
date of settlement;
Pay Miss S £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4500333