K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about three payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with a 
mortgage Mr B had with his late wife. The mortgage  was a joint one, but it seems  all three  
PPI policies were solely  in his name. The late Mrs B wasnt covered by any of them.
The policies were  sold in 1987, 1992 and 1997.  Mr B says Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading 
under the Halifax  brand  name at the time,  mis-sold all three  policies. 
Mr B says he doesnt remember ever agreeing to these PPI policies and he wouldnt have 
taken out this type of cover without adding  his late wife. He also says the 1987 PPI policy  
was kept running  until around 2018,  long after his mortgage had already been  paid off in full.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to Halifax in this decision.
background
Im really  sorry  this complaint has been  with us for so long. I can completely understand this 
will have been frustrating  for Mr B and his family.
Nevertheless, I see weve been  in regular communication with Mr B and his family 
representatives who have  been  assisting him. 
The latest communication from one of our adjudicators who looked  at this case  said the first 
(1987) complaint shouldnt be upheld. But they thought the second and third ones  the 
1992 and 1997 PPI policies  were mis-sold.
Halifax agrees to this and agrees to pay back Mr B for the 1992  and 1997 PPI policies. 
Mr B didnt fully agree  with this. He still thinks all three policies were mis-sold and has asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint  again and issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having looked  very carefully and thoroughly over all the information we have from the sale,  
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about the 1992 and 1997 policies, but not the 1987 one. 
Ref: DRN483454021987
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt  that Mr B genuinely and honestly feels  
now that he was mis-sold  the first policy, in 1987. But there  is simply no corroborating 
evidence to support  this. Theres  as much to say it was sold properly  as there  is to say it 
wasnt.
I think this because it was over 30 years ago. So not having access  to the original sale 
documents that would  have shown Mr B and his late wife were presented with a choice at 
the point of sale isnt particularly unusual.  Businesses arent required to keep  records 
indefinitely.
He says he doesnt remember agreeing to protect  his and his late wifes mortgage with any 
PPI, but after so long I wouldnt really expect  him to. Mr B says he also would never have 
wanted to have a sole policy without his late wife included.  I do understand the point being 
made but Im afraid we do see many  situations where couples have a joint mortgage but only 
single PPI protection. And my experience  is that where single cover is taken, it is usually 
explainable because  that person is either  the only or higher wage earner, or where specific  
circumstances of the spouse  or partner renders  them ineligible  for the policy.
Ive also seen a number of very similar sales to this and in my experience  Halifax issued a 
schedule very similar  to the copy Mr B subsequently obtained many years later. I think  he 
would have also been required to authorise the PPI premium to leave his account  on a 
monthly basis and I dont believe this could have  been done  without his expressed authority 
on a direct debit mandate or something similar. 
Halifax had a duty to ensure the PPI was suitable  for Mr B and the late Mrs Bs situation. I 
think it probably was. As this was a mortgage  secured against their family  home,  I dont think  
the PPI being  recommended to them at the time was unreasonable.  The policy  was there to 
protect them in the event  of something unexpected happening and I dont think  theres  any 
substantive evidence to say it was mis-sold.
1992 and 1997
Halifax has sent us a note to say it agrees with our adjudicators reasoning  that the 1992 and 
the 1997 policies were  mis-sold. Im not therefore going to go in to much detail. Halifax  says 
the policies resulted in him being  over-insured and it will therefore  offer redress accordingly.
To be clear then, this part of the complaint is upheld. The 1992 and 1997 PPI policies were 
mis-sold.
The long-running 1987 policy 
As Ive described, Mr B says this policy ran on for many years   he says until 2018.  I can 
see weve asked Halifax about  this a number of times and it will refer the matter to another 
department which may or may not determine  that redress is due.
However, Im afraid over payment in this way isnt generally something  we would say makes  
a policy  mis-sold in the first place. Keeping a policy running is obviously a post-sale issue 
and it is generally  for the policy-holder to continue  to assess  whether the cover is something 
they need, in a similar way they would do for any insurance, or indeed  any wider financial 
product.
I accept Mr Bs central point of complaint here is that he didnt know anything about  it. But 
theres no doubt  as I understand it  that such  a policy existed and that he was being 
Ref: DRN48345403charged around £16 per month over an extended time period  some 31 years  if Mr B is 
correct. As I said, he would have had to authorise these monthly  payments from his bank 
account and would have probably seen them on bank statements (or similar) at some point.
I therefore leave  this issue for Halifax to determine  as to whether it thinks any redress is due. 
But I dont find this part of Mr Bs complaint upheld because the responsibility to check and 
maintain his ongoing financial  affairs was his. 
From looking  at the policy conditions I agree with Mr B that having closed the mortgage 
down, he probably  wouldnt  derive  any benefit from still having this particular type of PPI. 
But I also note the conditions said that unless otherwise terminated, the policy will be 
automatically renewed on the renewal date stated in your schedule and annually  thereafter 
subject to the payment of the premium . So if Mr B continued to pay the premium without 
cancelling the policy, it would remain in force. I note also that the policy  underwriters were  a 
third party insurance company which could explain why the mortgage ending wasnt picked 
up on their side.
what Halifax should do to put matters right 
Halifax should put Mr B in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI in 1992 and 
1997. It should:
Pay Mr B the amount  he paid each month for these two PPI policies.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year before April 1993 and 8% after that .
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Halifax  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Halifax  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint for the 1992 and 1997 
policies and I direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay him all the compensation as Ive outlined 
above. 
The complaint about the 1987 PPI policy  is not upheld. The complaint  about the 1987 policy  
being kept open after the mortgage ended  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4834540