K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms S complain  that Nationwide Building Society  (when it was trading as 
Dunfermline Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
As Nationwide  Building Society is responsible for dealing with this complaint, to keep things 
simpler Ill just refer to Nationwide  as the seller  from now on.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr C and Ms S alongside a mortgage  that 
started in 1997.  The policy provided  them both with accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr C and Ms S disagree 
and theyve put forward a number of points in support of their complaint. 
Theyre mainly  concerned that they were made to feel pressured by Nationwide into taking 
out PPI to ensure their mortgage application was successful. Mr C and Ms S say they both 
had life insurance and Ms S had sick pay they couldve  depended on to pay the mortgage. 
So the complaint comes  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr C and Ms Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Nationwide cant tell us how the policy was sold. Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show 
whats likely to have happened at the time and how the PPI was likely  to have been 
presented. But Nationwide  hasnt been  able to provide any documents  signed by 
Mr C and Ms S to show  how they took out the PPI. I dont think  thats  surprising given that 
the mortgage account closed more than 11 years ago. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have 
kept records about a closed account for so long and its not a reason  for me to uphold  the 
complaint.
Mr C and Ms S remember speaking with an advisor at one of the building societys  branches  
when they arranged their mortgage  and the PPI. So even though they werent sure of the 
date they did this, I think thats  probably what happened.
But what  they say about the way they were  sold the PPI isn't enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  their complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what 
I think is most likely.  
Ref: DRN46803622Nationwide has sent me an example of the application form that was in use around  the time 
Mr C and Ms S arranged their PPI. And I think its likely that Mr C and Ms S wouldve had to 
fill in and sign something similar to get PPI added  on to their account. They wouldve had to 
choose how they wanted to share  the benefit between them and say how much monthly 
benefit they wanted. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr C and Ms Ss home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr C and Ms S decided they wanted to have the benefits 
that PPI offered them and they chose  to buy the policy.  
Nationwide says it didnt  advise Mr C and Ms S to take out the policy. But I appreciate  that 
Mr C and Ms S feel strongly  that they were encouraged to take out PPI by the advisor they 
spoke to. As this issue is central to Mr C and Ms Ss concerns about the way they were sold 
this PPI Ive thought about whether my decision would be different if Nationwide  did 
recommend them to take out the policy  and it makes no difference  to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has an extra obligation to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Even if Nationwide had recommended the PPI to Mr C and Ms S I think it wouldve been 
suitable for them. And, overall, I think Nationwide probably did give them  enough clear 
information so Mr C and Ms S could decide  if the policy was right for them - and clearer 
information wouldnt have  made a difference.  Heres why I say this.
Mr C and Ms S were  both eligible for the policy. And as they were both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me. 
Although they mentioned having life insurance set up, PPI provided a different sort of cover  
and paid out in different circumstances. So this information doesnt affect my decision about 
whether they were  mis-sold PPI.
Ms S couldve relied on getting 6 months  full sick pay followed  by 6 months' half pay through  
work. The policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim on top of sick pay and 
covered them if Mr C or Ms S was off work  as a result of accident or sickness . PPI wouldve 
also paid out if either  of them became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr C and Ms S long term protection  over the term of the 
mortgage.
This would probably  have  been an important consideration for Mr C and Ms S. The 
mortgage was taken out when they were  both earning so I think it mightve been difficult  for 
them to pay the mortgage if they werent both working. Mr C and Ms S dont appear to have 
had any significant  other means they couldve relied  on for very long if they werent working. 
Ms S mentioned some  savings  but I've seen no details about this. And I dont know if they 
wouldve always had savings they could rely on if theyd  needed  to make a claim.   
Ref: DRN46803623Based on everything  Ive seen about  their circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable 
for Mr C and Ms S and they couldve benefitted from having the policy.  
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr C and Ms S about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  Ive taken into account  Mr Cs comments, including  what hes said 
about being self-employed. But I dont think this wouldve made it particularly difficult  for him 
to make a claim. And Ms S wasnt affected  by any of the main conditions limiting  the policys 
benefits. So I dont  think clearer  information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
them off buying  the PPI. 
I dont know if or how the policy costs  were explained to Mr C and Ms S when they took it out. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. I can see that they didn't 
have to pay the monthly premium when the policy was first set up  the building society did this for 
them. But this doesn't mean that the policy was mis-sold. As this was a policy they paid for each 
month, Mr C and Ms S couldve cancelled it at any time without  losing out financially if they 
didn't want  to pay for it. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr C and Ms S say in response  to the adjudicators  
assessment. Overall its possible there may have  been some  failings in the way this policy  
was sold. But I think Mr C and Ms S still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been 
better informed as it gave  them useful protection  in their particular situation.  I dont  think  
having better information wouldve put them off buying it.
 
This means  I dont  find that Mr C and Ms S have lost out as a result  of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680362