K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay  Ltd irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his credit card in 
2016 when hed already  exceeded his existing  credit limit and couldnt  pay it back. He wants 
a refund of interest and charges and his credit file amended. 
background
NewDay said in its final response that the offer to increase Mr Gs credit  limit in December 
2016 and other offers  were  made  in line with its responsible lending  policy.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
When increasing a credit limit and lending to a customer NewDay shouldve  carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks.  But we cant  tell it exactly what checks  to 
carry out. Thats something for it to decide  upon.
NewDay has said that when  offering  an increased credit limit it considers the cards 
use, the customers credit  report and its own risk strategies. It says it did this each 
time it decided to increase Mr Gs limit and he passed the checks.
The fact that Mr G was only making minimum payments onto his card isnt 
necessarily an indication of financial difficulty. It shows the customer can maintain the 
account. Mr Gs credit  record shows he made  some late payments but didnt miss 
them; he exceeded credit limits marginally  but brought them  back in line with 
minimum payments; there  werent  any problems with loans: and he only sporadically 
took out cash advances. These  things  arent  enough to say NewDay  shouldve 
known he was in financial difficulty or shouldnt have lent to him. 
NewDay says that each time it increased Mr Gs credit limit he was offered the option  
of opting out of the increase and he wasnt in arrears when the increases were made. 
That complies with the relevant guidelines.  NewDay also asked Mr G to consider if 
he could afford to pay the money  back and if thered been a change in his 
circumstances. Its clear Mr G knew he could  have  the limit reduced as hed done that 
on the account on a previous occasion.  Mr G didnt ever tell NewDay  he wasnt 
happy with the limit increases.
Overall NewDays lending wasnt irresponsible and she wont be asking it to do 
anything.
Mr G doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has referred  to a number of previous Final  Decisions published on our website. He 
says they show  cases  and situations  similar  to his and support his case  that he should be 
given a refund of interest. Ive taken  note of them particularly the one case he says is most  
Ref: DRN45674522like his. But each and every complaint  is different. And we must  consider each case,  
including Mr Gs, on its individual circumstances and merits. Previous Final Decisions also 
dont amount to precedents which bind us in deciding  future  cases. 
The circumstances in the case and decision Mr G primarily  relies on are different to those in 
his case. For example  in that case the consumers credit history and payment record  was 
significantly different and worse in some respects  than Mr Gs case. 
In Mr Gs case he continued making  the minimum payments. And although he occasionally  
slightly exceeded his credit limit he quickly brought the account back in line. Some  late 
payments were also made but he didnt miss payments. And his overall  credit  history 
showed him managing his financial affairs well. He appeared  to be in control of them  even if 
he mayve been experiencing some financial difficulty from time to time.
NewDay clearly carried out appropriate checks.  It took account  of his credit  history and his 
history with it. And it was satisfied Mr G met its lending criteria before granting the increased 
credit limits. That seems reasonable. Its a matter  for NewDay  to set and apply its lending 
criteria. That and its decisions to lend more to Mr G are matters of it exercising its 
commercial judgement, in which we wouldnt  normally get involved.
Mr G says NewDay shouldve done more than merely send out a letter  saying he could  opt 
out of the credit limit increases. Particularly to someone in his position who would accept any 
increase to live off the credit card. But this service isnt a regulator. We cant fine or punish a 
business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. General issues  about how the 
banking industry  works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
I understand Mr Gs frustration. But the simple fact is he was given an opt out of each  of the 
credit limit increases. And NewDay invited him to consider his situation  and ability  to afford 
the new limits and repayments. Mr G didnt  have to accept the credit limit increases if he 
didnt want to or if he considered they werent  affordable for him. 
I also note Mr G had actually asked  for his credit limit to be reduced in March 2012, so he 
was clearly aware of what could  be done if he was unhappy with what was being offered. His 
credit limit was increased a number of times in the three year period between 2013 and 
2016. But Mr G didnt  once contact NewDay to opt out of or discuss any of the increases. He 
couldve also asked NewDay for help at any time if he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
And when  the credit  limits were increased Mr G wasnt obliged  to utilise  them to their 
maximum or at all if he didnt want to or couldnt  afford to service  the resulting debt.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Gs strength of feeling I dont think  its been shown that 
NewDay didnt carry out proportionate checks or irresponsibly increased his credit limits. 
Consequently I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require NewDay to refund any interest to 
Mr G or amend his credit file as hed like.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Ref: DRN45674523Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4567452