K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T bought the policy in 2010 at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy n branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 72-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was £427.35 
with the PPI costing  an additional £92.93  making the total monthly repayment £520.28. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs T for accident,  sickness, unemployment and critical injury 
cover  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay Mrs Ts monthly loan 
repayment for up to 12 months in the event of a successful unemployment claim and for the 
remaining term of the loan in the event of accident  or sickness.  
At the time,  Mrs T was employed as a Relocation Manager. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay but had death  in service  cover  and would have received a 
redundancy payment. She has also said she had around £200 in savings.  Mrs T has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale, although she has mentioned some medical 
conditions had suffered some years before. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account started in 2010 and closed in 
2016. 
Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ts representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs T about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs T and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN48693402The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mrs T also says that the non-disclosure of 
this term is a breach  of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2016. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN48693403GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mrs Ts complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Ref: DRN48693404did Mrs T know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mrs T had taken  out a loan some two years  earlier  with Lloyds which was being refinanced 
by this loan, and with the first Loan  Mrs T didnt take out a PPI policy. So, this should have 
indicated she could  borrow  the money without  the PPI.
Also when Mrs T signed the loan agreement there was a separate box about  PPI and this 
was ticked and signed separately  to say Mrs T wanted to take out the PPI. In this section the 
insurance was described as optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs T knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it did provide  advice  during this sale, but Mrs T has indicated  no advice was 
given. The sale took place in branch and Lloyds would have a standard process that it 
followed. Also, a demands and needs  form was completed to assess  Mrs Ts circumstances. 
Looking at what happened when Lloyds sold Mrs T the PPI, Im persuaded that it did provide  
advice.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs T with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs T. The adviser  had information about  some  of Mrs Ts financial circumstances as 
part of the loan application.  But although  a demands  and needs statement was completed to 
try and establish whether Mrs T had a need for the policy   by asking questions about  her 
wider circumstances  such as any health issues and existing means  I dont think it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
For example, it is unclear  if Mrs Ts long and short-term protection  needs were  considered  
fully, this loan being taken  out over six years. And there is no specific  evidence to show the 
adviser took steps to fully establish whether  Mrs T would  have  been  caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs T given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs T, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN48693405-Mrs T had a need for the policy  the data collected at the time of the sale indicates 
she would have  received up to 8 weeks sick pay. She has told us she would have 
received some redundancy benefits,  but these are likely to have been limited  and she 
only had around  £200 of savings she could fall back on. So the policy would have 
helped Mrs T manage the consequences were she unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs T.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs T. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Ts employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult 
for her to claim.
-Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs T has told us about a broken bone  
occurring in 1989; a sinus condition in 1991;  and a problem with her wisdom  teeth 
and removal in 2000. But none of these would appear to be caught by the specific 
terms and conditions  on limitations  and exclusions as they all occurred some ten 
years or more before the sale.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs T was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover - that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs T was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability. I have reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Mrs T would have taken out the policy without any sense of what 
the policy was for. The monthly cost, and total indicative cost of the policy  over the full loan 
term, were set out on the loan agreement Mrs T signed so she was aware of the cost.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs T Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs T. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs T all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN48693406-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Mrs T? To what extent did Mrs T 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs T. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs T, I have found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs T has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs T would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs T says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs T had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
Ref: DRN48693407As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ts circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs T was given about the cost was clear.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, and any limitations 
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs T would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ts expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mrs T 
knew about or ought to have known about  that occurred within the 12 months period 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs T didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions that were  caught  by the policy restrictions  and she was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think she had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs T made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs T 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN48693408Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs T would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs T 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs T compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs T in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN48693409Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4869340