K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  delays in HSBC UK Bank Plcs mortgage application process.
background
In 2017 Mr and Mrs J were looking to buy a house.  They approached HSBC  for a mortgage 
in February 2017.  They  hadnt decided upon a property at that point but, following their 
meeting with HSBC,  they received a mortgage certificate showing the amount HSBC  was 
willing to lend to them, subject to credit checks. After finding  a property, Mr and Mrs J 
arranged another  meeting with HSBC  to formally apply for a mortgage. This took place on 
3 May. On 23 May,  they were told by HSBC that they didnt meet its lending criteria and their 
mortgage application had therefore been  turned down. The reason for this was because 
Mr Js business experienced a loss in 2016.  
Mr and Mrs J complained.  HSBC looked  into its decision again and a mortgage  offer was 
extended to Mr and Mrs J but it was for a lower amount  than they needed and, by this stage, 
they had already bought  their house. They had to take a bridging loan from their family and 
take a mortgage from another provider  to do so.
Mr and Mrs J say HSBC should have told them far sooner  that the loss at Mr Js company 
was going to be a problem. They say they lost out as a result  because they didnt have time 
to find a particularly  good mortgage  deal from elsewhere and because they had to use a 
mortgage adviser given the time pressures  they were put under.  They  say they wasted 
considerable time on their application with HSBC. They say they were  lucky to be able to 
borrow from family but this put them in an awkward  position. And they say HSBCs 
underwriting criteria was flawed.
HSBC says the February meeting between  the parties wasnt  a formal mortgage  application,  
so there  was always the possibility that it wouldnt lend to Mr and Mrs J. It says it made this 
clear. But HSBC says it should have discussed its lending criteria  in more detail during the 
3 May meeting.  And it recognised that there  were  some administrative and communication  
problems. So it offered Mr and Mrs J £450 compensation. Mr and Mrs J didnt think  this was 
enough so they brought  their complaint  to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J asked for an ombudsman  to look 
at everything again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think its worth noting at this stage  that I wont be commenting on every  point  made by the 
two parties. I have taken  everything that has been  said into account. But I will limit my 
findings to those areas that impact on the outcome of the complaint. With this in mind, I 
wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint for the reasons given below.
Ref: DRN45764602Mr and Mrs J say they would have been  able to find a better mortgage rate than the one they 
ended up with if HSBC  had given them more warning that their application would likely be 
turned down. But this isnt reason  enough to uphold their complaint.
First of all, Mr and Mrs J seem to be viewing the February meeting, and mortgage certificate, 
as providing a firmer steer on the likely  outcome of their mortgage application than was ever 
going to be the case.  Mr and Mrs J hadnt even chosen a house at that point, so HSBC  didnt  
know what their potential  lending was being secured against. So it was only ever in a 
position to give an indication of what it could lend  and the mortgage certificate made  that 
clear: 
Im pleased to acknowledge that, based  on the information provided on 16 February 2017 
HSBC could lend a residential mortgage of £434,910
Before lending  you money well want to be sure the parties borrowing can afford the 
repayments. This will include  a full credit assessment  and the parties meeting our application 
criteria. Our mortgages and other  loans are subject to security and status.
Mr and Mrs Js point is that they should have  been told that there was likely to be a problem 
with their application given that they provided information on Mr Js business at the meeting 
(including information showing it had made a loss in 2016)  and it should  have  been  obvious 
enough from this that this could impact on their application. But this is to misread the 
purpose of the meeting. The purpose of the meeting wasnt to provide an underwriting  
decision. The purpose of the meeting, and the mortgage certificate, was to provide an 
indication of how much  Mr and Mr J could  potentially borrow  to help them  in their house 
search. Clearly the process didnt ultimately work  in the way Mr and Mrs J would have 
wanted. But Im satisfied HSBC didnt do anything  wrong in providing the mortgage 
certificate and I dont think what happened in the February meeting is sufficient reason to 
hold HSBC responsible for the higher mortgage rate Mr and Mrs J went on to pay several  
months later. 
Mr and Mrs J found a house in April and returned  to HSBC to meet  a mortgage adviser on 
3 May. A mortgage was recommended and a key facts document about  the mortgage  
provided. The application was then passed to an underwriter who declined  Mr and Mrs Js 
mortgage because  of the loss at Mr Js business.  Mr and Mrs J were told about  this on 
23 May, after they called HSBC  to enquire why their mortgage application was showing as 
cancelled when they logged into their account.
Mr and Mrs J have queried  HSBCs  underwriting criteria. They raise a number of points 
about their credit worthiness. However,  HSBC is perfectly entitled to turn down a mortgage if 
applicants dont meet its lending  criteria.  I might think differently  if HSBC hadnt applied  its 
underwriting criteria in a correct or fair manner. But Ive seen nothing to suggest thats the 
case here. And Mr and Mrs J should,  reasonably, have been aware that their application 
could be turned down because it was made  clear  in the key facts document:  
This is not a legally binding mortgage  offer and it does not oblige HSBC Bank plc (HSBC) to 
provide you with the mortgage described in this illustration 
However, HSBC has said it should  have told Mr and Mrs J more about  its lending criteria 
during the 3 May meeting. It has offered £450  compensation  for this and for other 
administrative and communication problems during the application process. I think  this is 
fair. 
Ref: DRN45764603I say this because  I dont think HSBCs actions were severe enough  for it to be held liable for 
everything that followed. Yes, it could  have provided more information on its approach to 
underwriting. But HSBC  was under  no obligation to provide a mortgage to Mr and Mrs J or 
guarantee them a particular rate. And they made it clear that the mortgage  was subject to 
underwriting and the application may not be approved. In the circumstances, asking HSBC 
to cover Mr and Mrs Js additional costs  such as the more expensive  mortgage they ended 
up with and the mortgage adviser they felt obliged to use  wouldnt be a proportionate 
response to HSBCs mistake.  
Its also by no means  certain that being aware  of HSBCs lending criteria  would have 
prompted different  action  on Mr and Mrs Js part. Its possible Mr and Mrs J would  have 
waited for the underwriting decision  before starting another  mortgage application process.  
After all, they have  argued that there were good  reasons why their application should have 
been treated differently  the loss at Mr Js business was small, the proposed loan-to-value 
was low, Mrs Js earnings  were good and so on. They may have thought  these were  reasons 
enough for their mortgage to be approved despite  HSBCs  lending  criteria. And even if I 
accept that Mr and Mrs J would have started to look for another mortgage on 3 May, I 
havent been provided with any persuasive evidence that having those extra 20 days (from 3 
May to 23 May) would have necessarily  resulted  in them finding a better mortgage than the 
one they ended up with or that they would have avoided the large  premium  they say they 
ended up paying.  
The underwriting decision was appealed. It looks like this should have been done more  
quickly. The appeal outcome was reached on 4 July. I dont know when exactly  this was 
communicated to Mr and Mrs J, but it was certainly  no later than 6 July because  the 
response to their complaint was given on this date and this referred to the appeal  outcome. 
This means  it took over a month (late May to early  July) for the appeal  to take place. 
Mr and Mrs J had already bought their house  by then.  However,  even if the appeal decision 
had come through sooner,  HSBCs  new mortgage  offer was for a lower amount  than 
Mr and Mrs J needed so Im satisfied it wouldnt have changed their decision to go 
elsewhere for their mortgage. Therefore, whilst HSBC  should have done better with regards 
to the appeal, I dont think it had a financial impact on Mr and Mrs J.
Given all the above, I wont be asking HSBC to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the financial 
losses they say they incurred  as a result of HSBCs  actions. 
That said,  I think its only fair that HSBC pays some  compensation to reflect  the fact that it 
could have provided more information  than it did. HSBC has also said that there  were  
administrative and communication issues during the application  process  which should be 
compensated for, so I need to take this into consideration  too.
I can see from the emails between the parties during the application process  that 
Mr and Mrs J found it extremely frustrating dealing  with HSBC. They had to chase HSBC on 
a number of occasions. HSBC caused  confusion with regards to the documents it needed. 
And Mr and Mrs J ended up having to provide the same  documents on a number of 
occasions. So there were  problems  here. But our role isnt to punish  a business if it makes  a 
mistake, so our awards for this type of trouble and upset can be modest. And the problems 
experienced by Mr and Mrs J were essentially administrative in nature and over a relatively 
short period  of time. Dealing  with a mortgage would, typically, involve at least  some  time and 
effort on an applicants part too, so we would only compensate for the additional 
inconvenience caused by a business.  With this in mind, and taking  everything  into 
Ref: DRN45764604consideration, Im satisfied that the £450  HSBC offered is fair and reasonable compensation 
for everything that has happened. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs J nearly lost their house, and they say other  people  could have 
lost out too if they had been  in a chain. They also say future  HSBC  customers  could lose out 
if it doesnt improve its processes. But Mr and Mrs J didnt lose their house.  So theres 
nothing to compensate  them for here.  And the losses relating to others are not actual losses  
as such either  theyre losses that could have  happened. I hope Mr and Mrs J appreciate  
why I cant ask HSBC to pay them for losses that didnt happen and wouldnt have happened 
to them  anyway. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs J have queried  what action HSBC is going  to take to prevent a repeat 
occurrence for other customers. Having read through the file notes, it looks  like the adviser 
in the 3 May meeting was aware that the loss at Mr Js business could have been a problem, 
but she put forward the application to the underwriters because she thought there  were  good 
reasons why the mortgage might be approved and this obviously would have been to 
Mr and Mrs Js benefit. This clearly didnt work out in the way the adviser, or Mr and Mrs J, 
would have wanted. But the adviser has since said she wont put forward similar applications  
because of the unintended consequences of trying to help consumers in this way. I hope this 
reassures Mr and Mrs J that steps  have been  taken to prevent a reoccurrence  of the issues 
they faced.
It follows that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. If it hasnt already 
done so, HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs J the £450 it has previously offered. 
But it doesnt have  to do anything else to settle  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4576460