K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim on her home 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes their agents.
background
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties,  so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here. In May 2017  Ms D made a claim to Ageas in relation to an escape  of water 
at a flat she owns. Ageas  had some initial concerns about the information Ms D provided 
when notifying  them of the claim. This was in relation to how frequently  the property was 
occupied. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to look into Ms Ds claim.  Ultimately  after a lengthy process 
in October 2018  Ageas  declined Ms Ds claim.  They said this was because Ms D had not 
given them sufficient,  reliable information  to enable  her claim to be assessed.  Ms D 
complained and Ageas provided a final response which  maintained their original decision.
Ms D referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators  didnt think it should be 
upheld. He thought Ageas had handled the claim fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, 
and didnt recommend that they needed to do more. 
As she still disagrees, Ms D has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. On 
reviewing the complaint  I agreed with our investigators findings in relation  to the claim 
decision. But after asking  Ageas for further information  I thought Ageas were  responsible  for 
a delay of several  months in giving Ms D a decision on her claim.  So I let both parties know 
that I thought this would  have caused an amount of avoidable  trouble and upset. And that I 
thought £200 would  be fair compensation for this. 
Ageas accepted what Id said and had no further comments. Ms D didnt think  the 
compensation was sufficient and said that £600  or £700 would be more  appropriate. Now 
that both sides  have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead  with my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the outcome Ive previously outlined.  Let me explain why.
Ms Ds policy  says You Must;
As soon  as reasonably possible after the injury,  loss or damage,  provide your insurer 
with details of the claim that your insurer may reasonably require;
Give your insurer any information and assistance that your insurer  might reasonably 
require.
At the top of that section of the policy documents it explains  that You must comply with 
these conditions. If you do not, the insurer may refuse to pay a claim
Ref: DRN46546192Conditions such as these  are common across many  types of insurance and I dont consider 
them to be inherently  unfair. I think it is quite  reasonable  for an insurer to insist  on the co-
operation of the policyholder when  assessing  a claim. The claim process  is necessarily a 
two-way process.
Ive listened to the call when Ms D first notified  Ageas of her claim.  Ms D makes  reference to 
the damage building up as she has been  away most of the time  and the flat having been 
empty for a while. But later in the call she also says that her son lives there. So based on 
this, I dont think Ageas wanting to look further  into the occupancy of the flat was 
unreasonable. 
Ageas have also provided evidence which shows they made several  unsuccessful  attempts 
to arrange to meet with Ms D at the flat. It wasnt until September 2017 that Ms D was able 
to meet  with Ageas loss adjuster at the flat. The notes made  following this meeting record  
that Ms D was unable  or unwilling to provide any information or to give a proper account of 
the residency  or of the instances  of water damage. It also recorded that Ms D arrived  late 
and had to leave early, leaving  insufficient  time for a proper discussion.  
In September  2018 Ageas  wrote to Ms D. In the letter they asked Ms D to return  to 
information. This included signing and expanding on a statement that had been prepared 
following an earlier  conversation with the loss adjuster. When  in October they hadnt 
received a response, Ageas emailed Ms D to chase this. They explained that unless she 
responded within seven days, they would close their file. Ms D replied to the email and part 
of her reply read All what you are asking me to fill is just a waste of time. Following on from 
this Ms Ds claim  was declined, relying  on the policy terms  quoted above. 
I appreciate Ms D doesnt feel she gave conflicting, misleading or incomplete  information.  
But Im more persuaded by the notes  made  at the time than Ms Ds testimony. Having 
considered all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think  Ageas decision was 
unreasonable or outside the policy terms. I think the claim  has been fairly declined.  
the service
Whilst I dont think  it makes  a difference to the claims  decision, both parties  agree  that 
Ageas were  responsible for delays in Ms D receiving  that decision. There was a period of 
time in early 2018  in which Ms D was chasing  Ageas for an update and nothing was 
forthcoming. I think this would have caused Ms D some avoidable trouble and upset and that 
£200 is a fair amount to compensate for this. 
I understand Ms D feels this amount is insufficient. But having considered  how Ms D 
communicated with Ageas as a whole throughout the entire claim, Im not persuaded this 
would have had a significant  impact  on her. And I remain of the opinion that £200 is a fair 
amount, so Im not going to direct that this be increased.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay Ms D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Ref: DRN46546193Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654619