K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains about the repayment options offered by Carrot  Risk Technologies Ltd after 
his insurance was cancelled.
Background
Mr F held a policy administered by Carrot which he paid for in monthly instalments. The 
policy was due to run for a year.
The policy was cancelled part way through, but as thered  been  a claim on the policy, there 
was no refund due to Mr F. Instead, there was an outstanding balance of £1,028.46  due to 
Carrot as Mr F hadnt paid for the policy  in full.
Because Mr F had to use his car, he bought  another policy, with another provider to make  
sure he was insured.  But he said because of this, he couldnt afford  to pay the amount still 
due to Carrot  in a one-off payment. Carrot offered Mr F a repayment plan, but this was 
refused.
Carrot then sent two letters to Mr F explaining that he needed to either pay the outstanding 
balance, or arrange  a repayment plan to pay the balance. It said if it couldnt reach an 
agreement it would  pass the debt to a debt collection agency and its legal representatives.
Mr F responded to the second letter and provided  a wage slip showing his income and he 
offered to pay £10 per month to pay off the balance.
Mr F didnt  receive a response  to this offer and received a further letter from Carrot 
explaining the prospect of court action. After he left a review online explaining his 
unhappiness, Carrot  contacted him and logged a complaint. It apologised that it didnt 
respond to Mr Fs offer, but it explained it couldnt  accept it as it wasnt  able to spread the 
payments over a period  longer than 12 months. It also said based on the income  and 
expenditure Mr F provided,  it felt he could afford more than the £10 a month he offered. 
Carrot explained  as an agreement couldnt  be reached,  the next step would be for it to pass 
the balance on to a debt collection  company.
Mr F wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us. He thought  it was 
unreasonable that Carrot wanted to collect  the payment within  12 months  or pass the debt 
on to a debt collection  company as he couldnt  afford it.
Our Investigator  didnt recommend that Mr Fs complaint be upheld.  She felt it was 
reasonable that Carrot rejected the offer of £10 per month. But she did think Carrot should 
have replied to this offer sooner.
During our investigation, Mr F made a further offer. He offered to pay £50 per month to pay 
off the balance. Carrot accepted this, but said it would need to review it in six months time 
as it was unable  to spread the payment over 12 months. Our investigator thought this too 
was reasonable.
Mr F disagreed and asked  for an Ombudsmans decision. He said it was still unreasonable 
that Carrot needed him to pay off the balance within 12 months.
Ref: DRN47426432My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr Fs complaint isnt that a balance is due. Nor is it about the make-up of that balance.  So I 
wont go into too much detail here, but Im satisfied the balance  being chased is fair, and Im 
satisfied the balance is due to Carrot.
The terms of business between Mr F and Carrot say that if any balance is due after the 
policy is cancelled, Mr F must pay Carrot on demand. And Im satisfied Carrot are acting 
reasonably when saying Mr F needs to pay them back within 12 months. His policy  was due 
to run for a year, so its not unreasonable Carrot would want its payment within a year.
Mr F is unhappy  his first offer of payment wasnt responded to. And hes unhappy the letter 
Carrot sent after hed responded pointed toward  court action. And I can understand why. 
Carrot should  have responded to his offer sooner than it did, and if it had, it wouldnt have 
sent Mr F the further letter explaining the possibility of court action.  This letter  will have 
undoubtedly caused Mr F some distress. Carrot apologised for this error and Im satisfied 
this apology is a sufficient acknowledgement of this distress.
Ive seen the income and expenditure Mr F provided - it showed Mr F spent £514 on leisure 
per month - and Im satisfied Carrot was reasonable in rejecting Mr Fs offer of £10 per 
month to pay off the balance based  on this. Equally,  I think it acted reasonably  when it 
accepted Mr Fs offer of £50 per month  for six months before reviewing the situation  again. 
As mentioned above, Carrot isnt willing to spread  the payment over a period longer than 12 
months and Im satisfied  thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4742643