K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2997. Mrs F says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs F that she had a choice  about  it. 
But Mrs F says PPI wasnt mentioned  when  she applied  for the credit card and shes  only 
recently been made aware that she had PPI on the card.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Mrs Fs application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on optional  features, with a box to be ticked if Mrs F wanted to take out PPI. There 
is a tick in the box, and Mrs F has signed  the bottom  of the form to say she agrees to it.
Lloyds records also show that Mrs F made  a successful  claim on the PPI policy in 2004. 
And so I think its unlikely she wasnt aware it had been added  to her card.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Lloyds made it clear to Mrs F that she 
had a choice about the PPI. And that she chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs F. This means it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for her. And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, she doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Shes told us she cant remember how much sick pay she wouldve 
been entitled to from her employer. But the policy couldve paid out for longer than its likely 
she wouldve received  full sick pay and shes told us she didnt have any other  means she 
couldve used to make  her repayments if she wasnt earning.
The application form for the credit  card shows Mrs F had only been  with her employer for 
four and a half months at the time of the sale. But there wasnt  anything in the policy terms 
that required her to be employed for longer or limited claims until she had been employed for 
longer. So I still think  the policy was right for her.
As well as checking it was right for her, Lloyds had to give Mrs F clear  information about the 
policy. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the policy wouldve been useful for 
Mrs F if something  went wrong.
And, given  how much  the policy  cost in comparison to how much  it couldve paid out, I think 
Mrs F wouldve thought the policy was good value. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs F off taking it out.
Ref: DRN42431832Mrs F has also said that she had separate policies on several credit cards and loans. And so 
she thinks she would have been  better  off with a single policy to cover  them all, rather  than 
separate policies.  But Lloyds wasnt required to check whether a single policy  to cover  all of 
her credit wouldve been better for her. As I explained above,  I think Lloyds recommendation 
of this PPI policy  to her was suitable. And I think it made it clear to her that she had a choice 
about the policy. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs F, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4243183