K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Personal Group Benefits Ltd (PG) charged her for a hospital plan 
insurance policy she didnt know she had.
background
Ms F took out a personal hospital plan insurance policy in 1989 which gave a £20 benefit for 
each night she had to stay in hospital  up to a maximum limit, subject  to the policy  terms. 
Ms F paid a £20 premium twice a year. PG was the policy administrator.
Ms F says she didnt know she had the policy or that she was paying  any premium  and only 
became aware  recently when her mother found  the policy when clearing out old papers. 
When Ms F called the phone number on the policy document  it was a wrong number and 
she only found PGs contact details  by looking on the internet.
Ms F says she had been in hospital  and not claimed  on the policy  which showed she didnt 
know about it. She also says she didnt receive  any correspondence from PG and if it had 
contacted her she would have  known  about  and cancelled the policy. She wants the policy  
premiums refunded.
PG said it sent Ms F her policy documents in 1989 and as the terms and conditions of the 
policy had stayed the same it had no need to contact her about updates  or new policy 
documents. But PG accepted it should have reasonably given  Ms F its new contact  details 
when it moved office and it offered  Ms F £20 compensation for her inconvenience.  It 
wouldnt refund  any premiums as it said Ms F had been covered by the policy  and if she had 
any hospital stays  while covered she could  contact it about making a claim.  It cancelled the 
policy as Ms F requested.
Ms F complained to us. She says PGs £20 offer is derisory and she wants her 
premiums refunded.
Our investigator thought PGs £20 offer was fair.
Ms F disagrees  and wants an ombudsman's decision. She says its good practice for a 
business to keep in contact with its customers and if PG had done so she would have been 
prompted to cancel the policy. She didnt see how PG or our investigator thought £20 
compensation was enough.
Before I made my decision I asked whether PG consented to us looking at Ms Fs complaint 
as the rules we operate under say we can only look at complaints made within  specific  time 
limits. PG consented.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F took out the policy she complains  about in 1989. Potentially her complaint about  the 
policy could have been outside the times  limits  set out in the rules we operate  under. But as 
PG has consented to us looking at her complaint I dont need to consider whether Ms Fs 
complaint was out of time.
Ref: DRN44074452Im sorry  to disappoint Ms F but I dont  uphold this complaint as I think PG has already made  
a fair and reasonable offer. Ill explain why.
Ms F says she has no recollection of taking out the policy. But PG had sent her the policy 
documents so I think she should have been  aware the policy  was in place.
The policy is clear that the policy will automatically  renew on payments of the premiums, 
which Ms F paid. The policy terms didnt alter over the years  and PG didnt have to send 
Ms F any revised  policy information. But PG should  have  reasonably sent Ms F its change  of 
contact details. Ms F says if PG had contacted her then she would have cancelled the policy.  
But I dont think I can reasonably say PG disadvantaged her by not contacting  her at that 
point. She was paying premiums for the policy from her bank account and she should have 
reasonably been aware the policy was in place whether or not PG contacted  her.
In PG's correspondence with us it's clarified  that its £20 compensation offer was for Ms Fs 
inconvenience due to it not providing  updated  contact details. I dont think that was made  
clear to Ms F in its final response letter to her.
I think PGs  offer of £20 compensation is a reasonable amount for Ms Fs inconvenience in 
having to find PGs  up to date contact details.
PGs £20 offer isnt related to Ms Fs request for a refund of her premium  payments. It 
doesnt need to refund any premium payments as Ms F was insured while the policy  was in 
place. Ms F says she didnt claim  on the policy when she was in hospital but PG has said 
she can contact it about making a claim for any relevant hospital stays  while  the policy  was 
in place, so she hasnt lost her opportunity  to claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4407445