K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited recorded an incident where no claim 
was made  on his motor  policy. This has meant  his premium increased.
background
Mr D told Tesco in November 2017 that a cyclist had ridden into his car. The cyclist was fine 
and Mr D said the cyclist said the incident  was his own fault and that they would be making a 
claim.
Tesco recorded this and confirmed Mr Ds no claim bonus (NCB) wouldnt be affected unless 
the cyclist made a claim. Four months later, Tesco wrote  to Mr D saying its file would now be 
closed as the cyclist never made  a claim. It also confirmed Mr Ds NCB wasnt affected by 
this incident.  
But Mr D noted when  his policy  was due to be renewed that his premium had increased and 
he thinks its unfair since no claim  was ever made against his motor policy by this cyclist.
Tesco didnt  think it had done anything wrong. Mr D remained unhappy so he brought  his 
complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong either. Mr D 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I do understand why Mr D is upset that his premium has increased  when  this incident wasnt 
Mr Ds fault and further that the cyclist never made  any claim.  But Tesco didnt do anything 
wrong in recording  it on the relevant databases.
This is because Tesco  is required by its regulator to record all such  incidents,  even if there  
was no claim made, so Tesco isnt allowed to not record  this information. The Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  is the regulator and neither  this service nor I have any ability to 
change those regulations or interfere with them. My duty and the duty of this service are 
simply to assess  whether Tesco followed these regulations properly in Mr Ds case. And I 
consider it did.
Further Mr D also did the right thing  in telling Tesco about the incident as his policy requires  
him to do that. So that means theres  no basis for me to say that Tesco did anything  wrong. 
Further, when any policyholder has such an incident  recorded  as Mr D has, that changes  his 
risk profile from any motor insurers point of view. As the adjudicator explained, all insurers 
have the right to decide what risks they want to cover and what premium  to charge for taking 
on that risk. That might  vary from insurer to insurer but all insurers require to be told about 
such incidents, which is again why the FCA requires such  incidents to be recorded  on the 
database, as Tesco did here. Which is also why, all insurers ask questions  about previous 
incidents on their application forms, which is also why Mr D is now required  to disclose this 
too for the required  number of years.
Ref: DRN44463792Insurers across  the board  usually assess any such incident as Mr D had, as increasing his 
risk of having another incident, which is also why Mr D has found that his premium has been 
increased because  of it. This is usually calculated on a statistical basis  by actuaries, whose 
job it is to assess such risks.  And once that increase is applied  to any other customer in the 
same circumstances as Mr D, then its not unfair and Mr D hasnt been singled out and 
treated any differently.
So whilst I do understand why Mr D thinks this is unfair, its not as its standard insurance  
practice across all insurers,   all of which are  properly regulated by the FCA. That also 
means Tesco did nothing  wrong in Mr Ds case.  It simply  followed the required regulations, 
which it has to do.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4446379