K822xcomplaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The PPI was taken out in 2004 when he applied for a new credit  
card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr H that they didnt think his mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Mr H some of the cost 
of the PPI. 
Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint.
Mr H says he was told he needed  to agree to the PPI to get his card approved. However, 
these events were a long time ago and I can understand it will be difficult for Mr H to 
remember everything that happened. For example, he says this was an internet sale, whilst 
Halifax says it was the result of a direct mail shot. Ive been  sent a copy of his application 
form and I think it was a postal application too.
I can also see that the postal application  form contained a box about  PPI and the applicant 
was invited to tick that box if PPI was something they wanted to have. I think the way the 
form and question was set out shows the PPI was optional because  it said YES, I would like 
to take out the Credit Card  Repayments  Cover costing just 78p per £100  of my statement 
balance. The box directly beside this was selected by Mr H and he also signed the 
agreement. 
I think this strongly shows he asked for the PPI cover with his new card.
Its also my experience that Halifax described  PPI charges on its monthly statements that 
were sent to consumers. It sent me some of Mr Hs statements which  showed he was 
charged in this way. I think if he hadnt  asked for the PPI he would have wanted to know 
what the charges  were  for. I therefore think Halifax got Mr Hs consent  for the PPI and he 
wouldve been able to see it had been set up on his account.  
This was a postal sale, so I think its highly likely  Mr H filled out the form in his own time 
without any help or guidance  from Halifax. That means it was for him to decide what he 
wanted to do and Halifaxs duty was restricted to providing information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading.  
Overall, I think it did this.
Ref: DRN40112972The cost of the policy was shown at the point where  Mr H was invited  to make his choice. 
And I think the mail shot would have included some  information about  the policy rules. Im 
sure Halifax  could have  done more to explain things, but I dont think this affected what  Mr H 
went on to do. 
This is because I think Mr H wanted the PPI and was given a choice  to either accept  or 
decline it. He was also eligible for the PPI and I dont think  that hed have  been  caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The monthly  cost of the policy  
was 78p per £100  of the outstanding balance which was comparable  with similar policies I 
know were sold around  that time. Ive got no evidence  to suggest this was unaffordable for 
Mr H. 
Its probable Mr H had some sick pay with his job at the time. But this doesnt  necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt of any use. In the event of a successful  claim, the PPI could have paid 
out 10% of his outstanding credit  card balance for up to a year.  So having very carefully 
considered everything  Mr H has told us, I think the policy was of use. And I think thats 
probably why he decided to buy it.
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax 
doesnt therefore need to refund  everything  Mr H paid for it. But its offered to give him back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
will make arrangements  to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt  already  
done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4011297