K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mr T signed.  On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which  has a pre-printed cross 
in it to take out PPI. The form also has other  pre-printed  information on it, such as Mr Ts 
employment and financial  details. Ive thought carefully about what  Mr T has said,  but I 
just dont think  theres enough evidence  to say he wasnt  given a choice. Instead I think 
that the policy was sold to Mr T during  a meeting and that the cross in the box for PPI 
reflected a discussion Mr T and the adviser had before  the form was finalised  and that 
the form was printed  to reflect what they had discussed. So overall I think its most likely  
that Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr T didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  
to take it  although I can understand why he cant remember  this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
it seems that the policy couldve  been useful.    
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said, including  what hes said about his sick pay and 
savings. But I dont  think this made  the policy unsuitable  if Mr T had lost his job or been 
unable to work, the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months, and irrespective of any sick 
pay Mr T was entitled to, and any savings  he had  at what couldve been quite a difficult 
time. So for these reasons, and the reasons explained above,  these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr T paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr T back some  
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr T now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Ref: DRN44353182my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4435318