K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc has treated him unfairly by defaulting his credit 
card account.
background
Mr L says that he got into financial difficulties in 2017. He let Capital One know this and, in 
August 2017 they set up a plan so he could make lower monthly  repayments  to his credit  
card account  until the situation improved.
Mr L says he got in touch  with Capital Ones specialist  support team  for help after the 
payment plan ended. He was told a support  plan could be put in place  but Capital One 
placed his account in default without letting him know. And he says his credit file has been 
adversely affected.  
Capital One says it defaulted the account fairly in January  2018.  It says it sent Mr L a letter 
early in the month asking Mr L to contact them before the default was applied  to talk about  
different options  to help. But as it didnt hear from Mr L, it defaulted the account and sent 
Mr L a letter  confirming this had happened.
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr L says hed like the balance of his Capital One credit card 
account to be written off. He says hed also like the default removed from his credit  file. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Capital One had done anything wrong by defaulting Mr Ls 
account. Mr L didnt  agree with our adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has now been 
passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr L was in financial difficulty  and Capital One has to treat anyone  in that situation positively 
and sympathetically   and I think it did so in Mr Ls case. Capital One agreed a payment plan 
when it became aware he was struggling to make the minimum repayments. It also agreed 
not to apply charges to the account  while Mr L was on the plan.  I can see Mr L missed  one 
of the agreed  payments in November  2017. And then as soon as he came off the plan he 
wasnt able to make the minimum repayment in December to bring  the account back  up to 
date. Since  December 2017,  Mr L hasnt made  any payments to the account.
Mr L and Capital One did correspond to an extent  after the plan ended  but no further plans 
had been agreed in the time between the default notice being sent in December 2017  and 
the default being applied  in January 2018.  Capital One didnt have to continue  to put Mr L on 
plans, or waive  further charges. I can also see that since the default was applied, Capital 
One has stopped applying  interest and charges to the account. 
Ref: DRN44865512Ive seen a copy  of the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account. It says at least  the monthly 
minimum payment must be made  to the account each month  by the due date on the 
statement. It then says if the minimum payment isnt met each  month, or the credit limit is 
exceeded, then it may send a default  notice.  The requirement to make  the minimum monthly 
payment was also set out on each monthly statement. And, when Mr L missed payments the 
statements and arrears  notices also warned  what might happen  if he didnt bring the account  
up-to-date.
Ive also seen a copy of a letter Capital One sent to Mr L in August 2017. It confirms:
a payment plan had been agreed  which required  Mr L to pay £50.per  month  for four 
months. The final date of the plan was 1 December 2017. 
the payment  plan would show on Mr Ls credit file as an arrangement. 
if all the agreed payments were not met then Capital One might serve  a default notice  
this would request  that the total arrears and/or over limit amount to be paid immediately. 
And if the overdue amounts  specified in the default notice  dont get paid, then the default  
will be recorded on the credit  file for six years.
So I think Mr L was warned what could happen  if he didnt meet his contractual repayments  - 
that is the minimum monthly payment ordinarily due to be paid each  month  and/or or the 
ones due under the payment plan. And the default notice also explained  what would happen 
if Mr L didnt bring the account up-to-date.  
Overall, I think Capital  One tried to help Mr L  and treated  him positively  and 
sympathetically  while  he was experiencing money  troubles. But, ultimately, the relationship  
broke down  and the account was reasonably defaulted after Capital One gave Mr L fair 
warning.  , 
Mr L is unhappy that the default has been  recorded  on his credit  file. But I dont think 
Capital One has done anything wrong  in sending this information to the credit reference  
agencies. It is important  credit files are an accurate record of a persons financial history.  
And for the reasons Ive already explained above, I agree Mr Ls account  was fairly 
defaulted. So Im not going to ask Capital One to remove  the default from his credit file. Or 
ask Capital One to write off the balance on the account.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4486551