K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about how Home Retail Group Card Services  Limited, trading as Argos  Card 
Services (Argos), reported his debt to the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
background
Mr S opened  an account with Argos in 2012. Mr S fell into financial difficulties and on 
14 November 2013, he entered  into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS)  a statutory debt 
management plan.  His Argos account  was managed under  the DAS.  Mr S made all his 
payments on time and in accordance with the DAS requirements. As a result,  the account 
was marked as satisfied  in 2018 at the end of the DAS.
Mr S reviewed his credit  file and was unhappy with the way Argos  had reported his debt to 
the CRAs.  He thought it would be fair for the account to be marked as defaulted from the 
date he entered  the DAS, or at least when the first payment was made to the DAS  
meaning it would disappear  from his credit file in 2019.
Our investigator reviewed  things and agreed  this would  be a fair outcome. She explained 
that the DAS ran for several years until the balance on the account  was written off. She felt 
this wasnt a short-term  arrangement and also indicated a breakdown in relationship 
between the two parties. So the account should have been defaulted from the start date of 
the DAS.
Argos disagreed. In summary,  it said:
it had an obligation  to record accurate information with the CRAs;
the account didnt reach the level of arrears for a default to be registered;
applying a retrospective default  wouldnt be in Mr Ss best interests;
a DAS isnt insolvency,  so doesnt mean the relationship between it and Mr S had 
broken down.
As Argos disagreed  with our investigator, the case has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive upheld Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered the industry rules, regulations and best practice  that 
were applicable to the time of the event. Accordingly, Ive looked at the Information  
Commissioners Office  (ICO) guidelines relevant to 2013, when Mr S entered  his DAS.
Its important to explain that these guidelines  were created to ensure  consistency amongst 
creditors when filing default information . Ive considered  that Mr S has specifically requested 
that Argos mark the account as defaulted  from the date he entered into the DAS,  or at least 
from when the first payment was made to the DAS. He has asked for this so all the 
information on his credit file relating to the DAS is recorded in the same way, and is in line 
with what other creditors have recorded.  So, Ive thought carefully about whether I think  
Mr Ss request here is reasonable, whilst keeping in mind the aim of the ICO guidelines.
Ref: DRN45384252I understand that Argos has an obligation to present accurate information to the CRAs. And 
accordingly, it has recorded the account as having  entered into a payment arrangement.  
With this in mind, Im not suggesting  that Argos has done anything  wrong in how it has 
reported Mr Ss account to the CRAs. However,  having considered  the circumstances in this 
case, I dont think  registering a default for the account would be inaccurate  either.  Ill explain 
why.
Argos has argued that the account didnt reach the required  level of arrears  to be defaulted. 
The ICO has provided guidance for businesses to follow when  applying  defaults. It suggests 
that defaults should be applied between 3 and 6 months of the account being  in arrears. The 
information Argos has provided shows that Mr Ss account fell into arrears prior to the 
introduction of the DAS, and continued  to build arrears whilst in the DAS.
Ive also considered that whilst under the DAS, the payments  being  made  towards the debt 
were lower than what would have been requested on the statements. Therefore, Mr S was 
arguably no longer  making contractual repayments  to the account,  from the point that he 
entered into the arrangement  on 14 November 2013. 
Therefore, considering that Mr S was no longer meeting his contractual obligations under the 
account terms, Argos wouldnt be reporting  inaccurate information if it reported the account 
as having defaulted to the CRAs. Given that this is what Mr S has specifically asked for, to 
be in line with what other creditors have reported,  I dont  think  this is an unreasonable  
request.
In summary,  I dont think Argos has done anything wrong in how it has reported information 
about Mr Ss account to the CRAs. But Ive thought carefully about whats fair and 
reasonable in Mr Ss circumstances. Having considered that what  Mr S has requested isnt 
factually inaccurate,  I think recording the account as defaulted is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And the date of the default  should be recorded  as the date the DAS took 
effect  14 November 2013. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and require Home  Retail  Group Card 
Services Limited, trading  as Argos Card Services to update Mr Ss credit file, to reflect  the 
account involved in the DAS as defaulting on 14 November 2013.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Hana Yousef
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4538425