K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mrs N complains National Westminster Bank Plc allowed a transfer to 
be made from a joint account  which she held with her late husband,  without the relevant 
authority.
Representing the estate are Mrs P and Mrs M  but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as 
if made by Mrs P.
background
Mr and Mrs N held a joint account with NatWest and Mr N also held a sole account for which 
his daughter held a Power of Attorney.
On 14th February 2018, a transfer  for just under £13,000 was made from the joint account 
into Mr Ns sole account and then transferred  out.  
On 20th February 2018 Mr N sadly passed  away and in March,  Mrs P said she became 
aware of the transfer.
Sadly, Mrs N then passed away on 30th May 2018.
Mrs P complained to NatWest on behalf of the estate of Mrs N.  She said at the time of the 
transfer in February,  Mr N (her step father)  would  have lacked the capacity to give any 
instructions to the bank.  She  suspected  the transfer was made by Mr Ns daughter  Ms W 
 who was taking  advantage of her father during  his ill health.
NatWest told Mrs P the transfer was made following  a signed authority from Mr N.  The  
branch where  it was made had now closed  and the member of staff had since  left.  But it 
was satisfied it had done nothing wrong.   Mrs P did not agree and asked  our service to 
consider her complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think he could  ask NatWest to do anymore either   so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The difficulty  in this case is that unfortunately, we can no longer ask Mr N whether  he 
authorised this transfer to take place  or not. NatWest says it would not have allowed the 
transfer unless  the request complied with the terms and conditions  of the account  and that 
was a one to sign  mandate.   This  meant a transfer  could be made with either Mr or Mrs Ns 
authority.
Ive considered Mrs Ps submissions regarding the treatment of Mr N by his daughter and 
what she says was his state of health  at the time of making the transfer.   Ive  also taken 
account of the fact that the money transferred out of the joint account  was subsequently 
returned to Ms Ws solicitor by Ms W.
Ref: DRN40308062Im satisfied Ms W was holding onto the funds and they were returned,  minus the costs of Mr 
Ns funeral expenses.  If Ms W intended to keep  the money for her own benefit and was 
taking advantage of her father, I wouldnt have expected her to return the money.
I also note that after the transfer, there  was still a substantial amount left in the joint account.  
Again, I think  this may assist in considering whether or not Mr N was being  exploited.
But I remind  myself that this is not the subject  matter of the complaint.  Whether NatWest did 
anything wrong  in allowing the transfer is what I ultimately need  to make a finding on  and 
based on what I have  seen, I cant see that it did.
I think, on balance,  the transfer was made with Mr Ns authorisation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mrs M , 
on behalf of estate of the later Mrs N, to accept or reject my decision before 
20 November 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4030806