K820x#14complaint
Miss W says the car she leased via a hire agreement with LeasePlan UK Limited  wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.  
background 
In May 2016  Miss W hired a new car for a four-year  period  via LeasePlan. In May 2018  the 
car had an issue with overheating and Miss W took it to the dealership  and the thermometer 
was replaced under  the cars warranty. Miss W was provided with a courtesy car. 
A few days  after the car was returned to Miss W she says the same issue  happened  again, 
so the car was taken back to the dealership.  The dealership kept the car for between two 
and three  weeks and undertook repeated test drives. It wasnt  able to replicate the problem 
and returned the car to Miss W. 
Miss W says shortly  afterwards there was an issue with the coolant  level warning light 
illuminating and the car overheating. The car was taken back  to the dealership  who kept it 
for another  three weeks and drove  800 miles in it test driving it repeatedly.  Again the fault 
couldnt be replicated. The car was returned  to Miss W and the dealership  asked Miss W to 
take a video of the fault next time it happened and bring the car straight  back  in. 
Miss W complained to LeasePlan about  the quality of the car. She said she had lost all faith 
in it and wanted to reject it. LeasePlan didnt uphold her complaint. It said the dealership had 
undertaken repeated test drives and hadnt  been  able to replicate the fault.  The dealership 
had also conducted  pressure tests on the coolant and water tank and again nothing had 
been found. It said there was no evidence the car had a fault and it couldnt support 
rejection. LeasePlan said if further  evidence  came to light then it would re-open Miss Ws 
complaint. 
Miss W was unhappy at LeasePlans decision and complained  to this service.  Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. She said that Miss 
W hadnt experienced  any problem with the car for the first two years and for her to 
recommend that LeasePlan took further  action  shed need evidence  that the car had had a 
fault present from the point of sale. 
Our adjudicator said the car had been  repaired in May 2018 but since  then,  despite  
numerous test drives, no fault could be found. She said it was for Miss W to show that the 
fault had either been present or developing at the point of sale and that the repair had failed. 
Our adjudicator said that there was no evidence that the car had a fault. 
Miss W disagreed with our adjudicators  view and said she didnt think  LeasePlan had taken 
her complaint seriously. 
As the parties couldnt  agree then the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45242222The hire agreement in this case is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and so this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. LeasePlan is also the supplier of the goods under 
this type of agreement,  and is responsible for a complaint  about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that under a contract to supply goods, there  is an implied 
term that "the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".  And for goods  to meet  this standard  they 
should  be what  a reasonable person would  consider  satisfactory taking  into account any 
description of the goods, price and all other  relevant  circumstances. So for a car this would 
include its age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle's  history.
The quality of the goods also includes  their general  state and condition  and other things 
like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor  defects, safety, and 
durability.
Here the car was new at the point of sale so would be expected to be fault free at the point  of 
sale and that issues of maintenance  and repair  wouldnt be expected  to arise for some  time. Ive 
seen the car didnt have any issues in the first two years of the agreement. Miss W had been 
able to drive  it for around 20,000 miles when the overheating problem occurred  in May 2018.
The car was taken to the dealership and a new part was fitted  to fix the overheating issue and 
then returned  to Miss W. Miss W says this hasnt solved the problem  and it has re-occurred 
since causing  her to lose trust in the cars  reliability.  LeasePlan says the car has been 
extensively test driven and tested with nothing being  found. It says there  is no evidence the car 
has a fault.
I dont  have any evidence that this fault had been either developing or present at the point  of 
acquisition (that is when Miss W acquired the car). And I also think that even if a reasonable 
person considered the car wasnt as durable as expected by requiring  the repair in May 2018 I 
dont have enough evidence to say that repair had been unsuccessful.  And this is important as 
under the Consumer  Rights Act the retailer has one opportunity to fix a fault if it arises and the 
goods were considered to have been of unsatisfactory quality.
I appreciate the overheating issue with the car appears to have been intermittent but I cant  
reasonably say the issue wasnt thoroughly investigated. Ive seen  the dealership  drove the car 
for 800 miles by way of test drives and werent  able to replicate  the fault. I also think  LeasePlan 
had been fair in offering to re-open Miss Ws complaint if evidence of the fault can be provided 
either by a video or by an independent report.  Miss W hasnt  provided  anything in support of her 
complaint to this service.
So looking  at the evidence I dont have enough evidence  to say this car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality at the point of sale and Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Ref: DRN45242223Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524222