K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains that she was mistreated  by a member of Lloyds Bank  PLC staff when 
asking for help selecting an account benefit  online.  Shes also unhappy with the way Lloyds 
Bank has addressed  some of its letters to her, and the way it dealt with her correspondence. 
background 
Ms D made a complaint to Lloyds  Bank  about her experience when visiting  a branch to pay 
a bill and to ask for help with selecting a benefit  on her account.  The exchanges which  took 
place between Ms D and some of the branch staff have been viewed by both parties as 
having included  some inappropriate conduct. The accounts of what took place supplied by 
Ms D and by Lloyds Banks  employee differ. 
Following Ms Ds visit to the branch Lloyds Bank sent her a letter  which said an incident of 
verbal abuse had taken  place in branch. And, if there  was a repeat of this or any similar 
incidents, it may give notice and close  Ms Ds accounts. 
Ms D complained to Lloyds Bank.  It credited £25 to her account due to the difficulties she 
experienced selecting the benefit  online.  And it gave a telephone  number for Ms D to call to 
select her benefit. The bank also said it had reviewed the service Ms D had received in 
branch and found no issues.  But due to Ms Ds conduct, it had added a note to her customer  
profile and wouldnt  remove this. 
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds Bank,  Ms D brought  her complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and said that Lloyds  Bank didnt need to do 
anything more. Ms D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision. In 
summary she was dissatisfied  with the following: 
the service received  in branch and the way she was treated;
correspondence being sent in her full name; and 
letters sent to her branch being  re-routed to Lloyds Banks  complaints team.
Also, Ms D said she would like to receive  full copies of the written statements given by the 
branch staff who witnessed the disputed exchange. 
Ms D also originally complained about being  converted from paper to online statements in 
error. I understand  Lloyds Bank has paid some compensation in relation to this and that this 
element of the complaint  is now resolved to Ms Ds satisfaction. However, Ms D remained 
unhappy that Lloyds Bank  had addressed the duplicate statements using her full name. She 
said she returned the statements because of this. Lloyds Bank said it has made a note on its 
records about how Ms D would like posted  items to be addressed to her, and it has 
confirmed it has since re-sent the statements. 
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision and in summary, I said:
Lloyds Bank branch  employees dont have  the facility to select  an account benefit  on 
behalf of customers,  so I didnt  think it was unreasonable of the bank to tell Ms D she 
needed to phone a helpline to do this. But I thought the staff in branch could have 
been more helpful,  and could  have provided more guidance around how Ms D could  
Ref: DRN47503712resolve the problem  she was having  accessing her account online and selecting  her 
benefit. 
I reviewed  the accounts given  by both Ms D and the Lloyds Bank employee she dealt 
with. And I used those  statements to decide  what I thought was most likely to have 
happened. Ultimately,  I thought Ms D and Lloyds Banks employee both probably 
spoke and behaved in a manner which the other could find offensive. 
In the event of a customer acting in a way that an employee  feels  is inappropriate, 
the business has the right to no longer do business with that customer, or to issue 
a warning or account note as it sees fit. I thought it was overly  strong  to refer to what 
happened as an incident  of verbal  abuse in the letter  the bank sent Ms D. But 
I wasnt persuaded I could  fairly direct Lloyds Bank  to remove  the note it had added 
to its customer  records,  as it was clear an incident of some sort did take place. As 
Ms Ds experience of dealing with the branch has left her deeply dissatisfied, her 
recourse here is much  the same as the banks  she can choose  to no longer do 
business with it and take her accounts elsewhere. 
Letters Ms D sent addressed to her local branch manager were  re-directed to Lloyds 
Banks complaints  team.  I said I didnt  think it was unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to 
do this, as its required to treat any expression of dissatisfaction in line with its 
complaints procedure.
Overall, I thought that Lloyds Banks  handling of the problems Ms D was 
experiencing accessing the lifestyle benefit could  have  been much better. Lloyds 
Bank had already  offered £25. Due to the opportunities I identified  where  it could 
have provided  better customer  service  when Ms D visited the branch, and the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result, I thought £150 was a more 
appropriate level of compensation.
Ms D was dissatisfied that this service hadnt sanctioned or punished Lloyds Bank. 
But thats not this services  function. We dont fine businesses  and were not their 
regulators. But, where we think something  has gone  wrong, we have the power to tell 
businesses what they must do to put things right.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Ms D responded to my provisional decision  and said,  in summary, that:
She was unable to access  her bank accounts online, not just the lifestyle  benefit;  
The letter she was sent by the branch manager warning her about  her behaviour has 
been taken into account, despite the manager not having not been present at the 
time of the incident; 
She wishes to continue to bank  with Lloyds Bank, but wants  the note deleted from its 
records; and
She would  like copies  of the statements  made by Lloyds Banks  employees,  and has 
contacted Lloyds Bank to request these. 
Ref: DRN47503713Lloyds Bank  also responded, it said it had no objection to paying the additional £125 
compensation Id outlined.  It also said duplicate  bank statements had already been sent to 
Ms D at the end of May.  And it confirmed it had received and was dealing  with Ms Ds 
request for copies  of the employee statements. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that Ms D is still unable to access her bank accounts online (not just the 
lifestyle benefit). If shes not already done so, Ms D should contact  Lloyds Bank in the way 
I outlined in my provisional decision to resolve this. 
Im still of the opinion  that the recollections of anyone who was not present  at the time of the 
exchange between  Ms D and Lloyds Banks  employee arent  a relevant consideration in this 
particular case.  I can see why Ms D thinks its contradictory for me to consider the letter sent 
by the bank manager, as she wasnt present at the time of the incident. But, in my 
experience, its not unusual  for letters of the type Ms D was sent to come from the branch 
manager, rather than from a cashier.  And Im satisfied that the letter  was sent based  on the 
events reported  to the manager by the Lloyds Bank employee who was directly  involved. So 
I remain satisfied its appropriate to take the letter into account when making my decision.
Ms D said she wants to continue banking with Lloyds Bank and her overriding concern 
seems to be that she wants the notes about the incident to be removed from her account. 
However, I set out in my provisional decision  why I didnt  consider it appropriate  to tell Lloyds 
Bank to remove the notes  and nothing thats been  said in response  changes my mind. 
Lloyds Bank  said its dealing with Ms Ds request  for copies of all of the statements  its 
employees made about the incident in branch. If Ms D hasnt had a response to this request, 
she should contact  Lloyds Bank  again.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I require 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Ms D a total of £150  in compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Shes  already received £25, so a further £125 should be paid if Ms D 
accepts this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4750371