K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) as it has declined  his home 
insurance storm claim.
background
In July 2018 Mr A noted water coming in through his roof. He made a claim to UKI but it said 
there hadnt been a storm and there was no sign of storm or impact damage  to his roof. Mr A 
had taken his own photos though and UKI agreed to review  them.  Once it had done so it 
said its decision hadnt changed  there hadnt been storm force winds  and the photos 
showed damage which the heavy  rain at the time had merely highlighted. Mr A complained 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He noted the weather details and didnt think 
there had been  a storm. He noted that Mr A didnt have extended accidental damage  cover 
on his policy  either. Therefore, he concluded  that UKI had fairly and reasonably declined 
Mr As claim.
Mr A provided further details form the met office.  He said this showed there were clearly 
storms in the region  of his property and it may well just be that the local weather stations 
hadnt been affected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most insurance policies  dont offer cover  for every  instance of damage that might occur. 
Most, as this one does,  offer cover against damage caused by specific events. Only if a 
specific event is shown  to have occurred will the insurer have to consider its liability  for the 
damage that has resulted. The key question that has arisen for Mr A is, was there a storm.
It isnt disputed that there was some bad weather at the time Mr As roof leaked.  However,  
bad weather is not necessarily a storm. It is also not disputed  that some  areas  of the country 
did suffer  storm weather  that weekend. But there is nothing to show that there  was a storm 
occurring in and around Mr As property. The weather summary from the met office talks 
about the weather generally.  The detail isnt specific enough to show what  was happening  in 
the location of Mr As home. In contrast, the weather station only 11 miles from Mr As home  
recorded no signs of storm  force weather.  I think its reasonable to rely on the weather 
station data. 
Unfortunately for Mr A that means that the damage  to his home cant have been caused by a 
storm (because there wasnt a storm).  Mr As policy doesnt benefit from accidental  damage 
cover and there is no other event detailed in the policy that might apply in these 
circumstances. Therefore, Im satisfied  that UKIs decline of Mr As claim was fair and 
reasonable.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Ref: DRN46764282Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4676428