K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Northern  Bank  Limited  (trading as Danske Bank) mis-sold him 
card protection.
background
Mr M says he was mis-sold card protection by Northern Bank around 1970 and definitely 
prior to 1997. He says he thinks he cancelled the protection between 1997 and 2000. Mr M 
complained to Northern Bank but it said it had no record  of selling him card protection.
Mr M then found a card in a drawer which had his name on it, a membership number and the 
name of a business  who were known to provide card protection. And Mr M complained  again  
to Northern Bank.
Northern Bank checked its records and could  find no record  of it selling Mr M card 
protection. Northern  Banks statements dont go back beyond 2000.  It asked him for his 
previous addresses  which Mr M supplied.  But it said after an extensive search of its records 
it could find no record that it had sold him card protection.
Mr M felt that this was unfair and he was being punished for it not keeping records  so he 
brought a complaint to this service.
Mr Ms complaint was brought outside  of our timescales for consideration but Northern Bank 
said that we could look at it in any event.
Our investigator looked into the problem for Mr M, the investigator contacted the provider of 
card protection and asked it to check its records. It did so, it said its systems didnt go back 
that far but it checked in any event  and had no record of Mr M.
So our investigator said that he couldnt uphold the complaint  as there  was no record that 
Northern Bank Limited had sold Mr M card protection. 
Mr M disagreed with this and asked that the case be considered by an ombudsman. He says 
that is unfair hes been punished because records arent kept for longer. Mr M is not happy 
with the hurdles hes had to jump over to get compensation and he hasnt been treated fairly.  
He says he knows Northern Bank  sold him card protection as hes never  banked  with 
anyone else. Mr M says the benefit  of the doubt has been given to the Bank and not him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know Mr M will be disappointed with this but Ill explain my reasoning.
In terms of the information available, weve got no firm evidence of when Mr M took out the 
policy, we dont know when it ended,  we dont know how much if anything  Mr M was 
charged, we dont know how it was sold and weve only got Mr Ms testimony  that it was 
Northern Bank that sold him the policy. So with that in mind,  drawing any reasonable 
Ref: DRN45956492conclusions on whether Northern Bank did something wrong and how it could put things right 
isnt possible.
Im satisfied that Northern  Bank has searched all the records  that it could, it had the 
opportunity to tell us that we couldnt look at the complaint but it waived  this right.  Our 
investigator also contacted the card protection provider who could also find no record of Mr 
M.
Mr M says hes been punished  for the fact records arent kept indefinitely. But businesses 
dont have to keep records indefinitely, so I cant say Northern Bank is in the wrong here.  
Even if I came to the conclusion Northern Bank did sell Mr M the card protection, wed have 
nothing to say how much Mr M wouldve been  charged across the period that he may have  
had card protection for. 
We do have timescales in which complaints should  be brought to us within but Northern 
Bank chose  to waive these. Part of the reason for these timescales, is situations such  as 
this, where Mr M says he took a policy out potentially 50 years ago and where it ended  
approximately 20 years ago. The likelihood of any information of a product sold 50 years ago 
being available is slim to none, computer records werent kept that far back  for obvious 
reasons. So without any information  to go, I cannot  tell Northern Bank that it did something 
wrong.
Mr M has said weve given the benefit of the doubt to Northern  Bank and hurdles have been 
put up to stop his claim. But I dont think its reasonable to conclude  that Mr M was mis-sold 
a product when  the only evidence available is a card with an expiry date of 1997, with Mr Ms 
name on it and a membership number  that cant be traced. I know that Mr M says that he 
only banked with Northern  Bank  and so it had to be them  that sold him the card protection 
but I still dont think  this is enough  for any conclusions to be drawn.
So I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint and make no award.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  18 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4595649