K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him payment protection insurance  
(PPI) with a credit  card.
background
Mr J took out PPI when  he applied for a credit  card. Both were  done at the same time using  
an in-branch  application completed during a meeting.
At the time Mr J was employed  and he says hed been working for his employer  for three  
months. Mr J told us he cant remember how much  sick pay he was entitled to, but that he 
didnt have any other means  he couldve  relied on to make his card payments. He said he 
had no health  problems at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, death  and 
hospitalisation cover  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to 10% 
of Mr Js credit card balance in the event of a successful claim for accident and sickness  or 
unemployment. At the time, it cost 75p per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Barclays records showed that Mr Js credit card account was still running on and after 
6 April 2008.
Mr Js representative raised several points  on his behalf in response to the adjudicators  
view that the complaint  shouldnt be upheld. By way of summary Mr Js representative said:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr J says the credit card application was pre-filled and he signed the paperwork 
without knowledge  of what he was entering  into.
Mr J was unaware he had PPI.
Mr Js testimony  hasnt been  taken into account.
I issued my provisional decision of October 2019.  Here I said I was minded  to agree with the 
adjudicator  I didnt  think  Mr Js mis-sale complaint should  be upheld. But I thought 
Barclays offer to pay back to Mr J some of what he paid for PPI in relation to high 
commission and profit share was fair in the circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision Barclays said that it had nothing further to add in 
relation to the mis-sale  element of the complaint. But it repeated its offer to pay back  to Mr J 
some of what he paid for the policy.
Mr Js representative replied and said it disagreed  with my provisional  decision  it 
maintained that the policy was unsuitable for Mr J in his particular circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN46546902my findings
While Ive only included a summary of the complaint, Ive re-read  and considered all the 
available evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; and neither is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgement in Plevin  about s.140  of that Act and the rules  and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgement  are applicable. Ill return to this issue later in the 
decision.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN46546903While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Js case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence);  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Js mis-sale complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below.
did Mr J know he had a choice?
 
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr J that PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN46546904Ive seen a copy  of Mr Js credit card application  completed at the time. And here I can see 
there was a separate section about PPI, which required a tick in the box Yes I require PPI  
to take out the cover.  And the box has been ticked.
Ive listened to what Mr J says about the form being pre-filled and that he just signed it. And 
while I accept its possible the application was hand  completed by another  member of 
Barclays staff  it was after all completed  during a meeting in-branch  given the level of 
personal information captured in the application, I think  its more  likely than not Mr J was 
asked for this information during the meeting rather than it being pre-completed  beforehand. 
I dont think the member of Barclays staff would neither have known  nor had ready  access  
to this level of Mr Js personal details  notwithstanding the fact Mr J was employed by the 
bank.
In any event, Mr J signed  the overall completed  credit card application. So taking everything 
into account, I think more  likely than not that Barclays presented  the policy to Mr J as being 
optional and he chose  and agreed to take it out without  undue pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
While Mr J told us Barclays didnt provide advice and recommend PPI, Barclays own 
testimony is that because  PPI was taken out in-branch it did advise Mr J. So, on the basis  
that I think Barclays is in the best position to understand how sales like Mr Js were 
conducted at this time  Im also mindful that in many  ways this puts Mr J in the most 
favourable position - I think this was likely an advised sale.
This means  Barclays did have to check PPI was suitable or right for Mr J  it also had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and the significant  
limitations and exclusions.
the advice
Theres limited  information about  how Barclays carried out the advice it gave to Mr J at the 
time. The credit card application shows Barclays gathered some information about  Mr Js 
circumstances. But I dont  know if it gathered all the information that it fairly and reasonably 
needed. So I accept  its possible it didnt advise Mr J with reasonable care and skill. 
But in light of Mr Js circumstances at the time, I think PPI was nevertheless  ultimately 
suitable for him, so it wasnt wrong for Barclays to have recommended  it. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the cover
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover - in particular Mr J has given us details about  his 
employment history, which indicates  hed been in paid work for longer  than 12 
months without a break.
Mr J appears  to have had a need  for cover  based on what  he told us about his 
existing means and provision.
the cost appears  to have been affordable.
Ref: DRN46546905the information
Barclays has provided us the policy terms and conditions  which  I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Js. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr J at the time, I dont think  Barclays gave Mr J the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
As Ive said this was a branch sale. The credit  card application form didnt give much  detail  
about PPI. But I think Mr J wouldve had a broad sense  of what the policy covered. And 
while I cant see any cost information  here,  I dont think Mr J wouldve likely  thought  PPI was 
free. I also think its likely Mr J received the policy terms  and conditions after the sale 
because this is what Barclays was required to do. 
But it was Barclays responsibility  to draw to Mr Js attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations, which might be relevant to his decision and in a timely manner.
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr J, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim or 
that the premiums  could  attract  interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  to the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr J? To what extent  did Mr J suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr J. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr J suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr J would have 
still taken out the policy  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mr J says he wouldnt have taken the policy out and believes that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above.
This was an advised  sale. And while Ive said Barclays might  not have  done  all that it fairly 
and reasonably should have, Ive found  the policy was ultimately suitable for Mr J.
As Ive also found  above, Mr J chose to take this policy out  albeit cover that was 
recommended to him. So I consider  that its reasonable to conclude he had some interest in 
the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this decision based  on 
incomplete information. So what Mr J thought  he was getting is not exactly  what he got.
Ref: DRN46546906I think the extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr J 
has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, I think Mr J ought  reasonably to have known hed have to pay 
something for the PPI  there was nothing about  the information  he did get which said or 
implied it was free. I accept however that Barclays didnt make clear the ongoing cost 
information or that the policy limited the number of monthly  benefit  payments to 12 per claim. 
Mr J said he couldnt remember his sick pay entitlement (he wouldve likely received 
statutory sick pay as a minimum.)  But Mr J didnt  have any other  means to fall back  on. And 
the policy wouldve  paid out alongside any sick pay entitlement  and wouldve helped  reduce 
Mr Js outgoings at what would likely  be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. 
In addition, the policy would more than cover the contractual monthly  minimum payment and 
had the potential to clear  the outstanding balance in full in certain circumstances. So while 
Mr J didnt know some things, the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim wasnt  
dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he based his 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought hed bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions, which Mr J knew about 
before the start date or for which  he received advice, treatment or counselling from 
any doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claiming unemployment benefit  Mr J had to be 
in continuous  work  for a period of 12 months  with one or more employers 
immediately before his employment  ended to make  a successful claim;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr J 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr J be unable  to 
do his normal job, or other  paid work  that his experience, education  or training would 
reasonably qualify him to do.
 
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused M J pause  for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking out the policy.  
For example if someone was new to work  and hadnt been employed for very long, the 
requirement that they had to be in continuous  work  for 12 months before a successful 
unemployment claim might have put them  off. But as I said above Mr Js employment history  
indicates he wasnt affected by this. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr J was caught by any of the significant  
exclusions on the cover   for example,  Mr J didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions 
and was in permanent employment  at the time. In addition the policy didnt limit or exclude 
claims relating to back pain or mental  health issues. So I dont think hed have been put off 
by these things.
Ref: DRN46546907If Mr J had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any other job which, in the insurers view, he might  reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
played into his thinking about  what hed have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr J was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances that hed 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Overall I think  Mr J had some good reasons to take the policy  out. The evidence about 
Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  fundamentally wrong  
for him; he was eligible  for its benefits;  and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions, could  have proved useful to him should the insured risks have become a reality. 
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case   including  what Mr J 
says he wouldve done with better  information  - I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr J 
would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was suitable for him, it was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding the employment benefits hed likely have received. And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But Barclays  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr J about  that. Because  it didnt  tell Mr J, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think 
that offers fair in this case.
  
what Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. Barclays should also pay back to Mr J 
any extra  interest  he paid because of that.
So in this case Barclays should re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr J the 
difference between  what  Mr J owes and what he would have owed if the commission  and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr J 
8%* simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax
 
my final decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, for the reasons Ive set out above  Ive 
decided that Mr J hasnt  lost out to the extent  that Barclays Bank UK Plc has to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Ref: DRN46546908But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  as Ive set out above - if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654690