K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled his basic current account.
background
Mr M has a basic current account with TSB. This type of account  doesnt provide an 
overdraft facility.
Mr M suffers from mental health problems and receives benefits  every two weeks,  which  are 
paid directly into his TSB account.
In February 2017,  Mr M made a series  of payments and ATM cash  withdrawals from this 
account using  his debit card. The net effect was that he went overdrawn by around £180.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He says payments  he tries to make are usually blocked  if the 
funds arent  available in his account  which prevents him going overdrawn.
Hes agreed repayment  plans with TSB since then. The most recent plan had Mr M reduce 
the overdraft by £10 per month. TSB dont add interest or charges to Mr Ms account whilst 
hes overdrawn  which is in line with their terms and conditions for this type of account.
Mr M is unhappy  that when he went to his local branch in April 2018 to make  a £40 payment 
under the repayment plan, TSB refused to take it. He says this led to the plan being broken.
Hes also unhappy that on a number of occasions   which  seem  to be when he is not 
keeping up with a repayment plan - TSB have  required  him to attend  his local branch  in 
person to access his benefits, rather than have access  to them  by using his debit card at 
ATMs.
Mr M says the branch is around 2.5 miles from his home and the journey requires a taxi due 
to his mental health problems.
Mr M asked  TSB to reduce his repayment  plan to £5 per month.  And he wasnt  happy when 
they refused to do this without carrying out a new income and expenditure assessment. 
Mr M thinks thats unnecessary given  that TSB are already  aware of his situation.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought TSB had acted unreasonably 
when they refused to take Mr Ms £40 payment in branch in April 2018. She thought this led 
to Mr Ms payment plan being broken unnecessarily and so caused him a degree of stress.  
She thought  TSB should pay Mr M £50 compensation  for his trouble and upset.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He 
thought TSB should cancel his overdraft,  allow  him access  to his benefits via ATMs, 
apologise to him and compensate him for his trouble and upset.
He said £50 is too little compensation given the length of time this issue has been going on, 
the stress  this has caused him - bearing  in mind his mental health issues  and the 
inconvenience hes experienced in trying to discuss the matter  properly  with TSB.
Ref: DRN48834092Because I thought TSB needed to do more than our investigator suggested  to put things  
right for Mr M, I decided  to issue a provisional decision before I make my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision  which is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word  on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of complaints to TSB.  Its important to stress that Im 
looking only at those  issues  Mr M has raised in his complaint to us and which weve 
put to TSB.
These issues are essentially around the way Mr Ms overdraft came  about and the 
way the overdraft and repayment plans have been handled - including  TSBs 
insistence that Mr M travel to the branch to access his benefits when he doesnt have 
a live repayment plan.
The way the overdraft came about in February 2017
Towards the end of January 2017, Mr Ms account  had a balance of less than £1. At 
that point £1,000 was paid into the account by a friend  of Mr M. Mr M used £500 of 
that to pay off a debt to someone else.
Mr M spent  around £200 on living expenses at the end of January but received  a 
payment of around  £30 from a telephone company.
So going  into February he had around  £330 left in his account  and he would or 
should reasonably have  known that.
On Friday 3 February  Mr M received  a benefits payment of around  £220. So the 
available funds in his account  in early February  were around £550.
Mr M took a trip overseas  on that first weekend in February. He bought  around  £200 
in euros  from an exchange  the day before he set off. At the airport on the morning  of 
Friday 3 February, he says he checked his balance at an ATM. He says this showed 
he had around  £550  available, so he bought  more  euros  for about  £250 - before he 
got on his flight.
If Mr M is right about his balance  at that time, there  are only two possible 
explanations. One, the £200 payment to the currency exchange  the previous day had 
not yet been reflected in his balance. Or he assumed his benefit  payment hadnt yet 
reached his account  when  in fact it had.
Whatever the explanation, Mr M says he was misled  about what money he had 
available and so effectively overspent by spending the further £250 on euros. He 
thought this left him with around £300  in his account. In fact, he had £100.
Ref: DRN48834093Whilst he was abroad,  Mr M paid £150 for his accommodation. Whatever the 
explanation of the situation Mr M found himself in, this payment should  not have been  
allowed on his debit  card.  Mr M didnt  have the funds available  at that point to pay 
that bill.
TSBs terms and conditions for their basic account that they cant  absolutely 
guarantee that customers wont  go overdrawn.  They give an example of a payment 
made whilst the customer is on an aeroplane and the funds available  cant be 
checked at the point  of sale. I believe this might also be the case  if the customer  
made a series of (presumably smaller) transactions which the merchants didnt 
authorise immediately  at the point of sale.
However, TSBs records show that all of the relevant payments made on Mr Ms card 
during this period were authorised at the point of sale by the merchant (or at the very 
least on the same day).
So if the account were operating as it should have, then the card payment for Mr Ms 
accommodation would not have gone  through  because it took Mr M into overdraft. 
Mr M says that at this point, he still had enough  euros in cash  to pay for the 
accommodation if the card transaction had been  turned down.
TSB havent explained  how this payment was allowed.  Mr M says they told him some 
of the earlier  transactions  hadnt  had the funds earmarked by the merchants. But this 
seems unlikely given  their own records show the payments being authorised the 
same day.
Theyve also said that its sometimes a fine line decision  whether  to allow  a payment 
given the circumstances of the customer at the time.  Im not sure I follow this 
argument either  Mr Ms accommodation payment was authorised electronically. It 
wasnt a case of TSB staff intervening to allow  the payment to go through  because of 
Mr Ms circumstances.
I dont think its important  for me to work out exactly which payment went  missing or 
to explain what happened when Mr M paid for his accommodation and why. But 
clearly, something went wrong with TSBs  processes  or systems because they didnt 
block a payment for which Mr M didnt have the necessary funds. And so he went into 
overdraft.
As a matter  of fact, this was made worse when Mr M returned to the UK, when he 
used his card at an ATM to take out another £100. Again, it would appear on the face 
of it that this transaction shouldnt have  been  allowed.
I should say that Mr M spent the money he spent. And he benefitted  from the goods 
and services he bought with it. Theres  also a reasonable argument that whatever he 
thought when he read his balance at the ATM on the Friday morning, he ought  to 
have known that he didnt have sufficient  funds available. His outgoings in the 
relevant period exceed his income  by around £180   which  hed have realised if hed 
been paying attention  to his income  and outgoings.
Ref: DRN48834094So, Mr M did legitimately  owe TSB around  £180  and Im not going to say they should 
cancel that. However,  it seems TSB have  made  an error in allowing  two transactions  
to go through  on Mr Ms debit card. And the net effect of that is that hes overdrawn 
by what to him is a significant amount, taking into account his income.
I think in those circumstances  its fair to say that TSB should  have handled  the 
overdraft sensitively, carefully and with some  consideration for how it had come about 
 especially  given Mr Ms mental health  issues.
TSBs handling of Mr Ms overdraft  the repayment plan
I dont think TSB handled Mr Ms overdraft  sensitively  or with care. And I think  their 
communications with him about  his situation have been ineffective. Ill explain why.
Mr M went into his local branch in April 2018 concerned that his payment plan might 
be broken if he didnt do something  to make a payment for that month.  He withdrew 
£40 from his account and then attempted  to pay that same  £40 back into the account  
as a payment  under  his overdraft repayment  plan.
That clearly  wasnt how TSB intended the repayment plan to work. Taking £40 from 
an account and then paying it straight  back in isnt a repayment of the overdraft on 
that account. It appears that TSB staff in branch refused to take the payment. Mr M 
says they told him theyd  take the payment out of his account as and when they were 
scheduled to do so.
Mr Ms benefits are paid directly into the account on a fortnightly basis.  Mr M started   
after his trip in February 2017  with an overdraft close to £180.  My assumption is 
that TSB intended  to reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit over time  and according to his 
most recent repayment  plan, by £10 per month.  Something they could fairly  easily  
control by setting an appropriate  limit on Mr Ms spending through  his debit card.
It appears no-one explained this properly to Mr M. And it appears that a number of 
repayment plans  have been  recorded  as broken or cancelled  on Mr Ms account, 
when in fact, TSB have  received Mr Ms benefit  payments every two weeks, but must  
have chosen not to stop his spending when it reached the appropriate (and gradually  
reducing) limit for that month.
Even during our investigation, TSB havent  articulated clearly what their intention was 
or how the repayment plans were intended  to work.  If they have more information  
about this, they should  let me know in response  to this provisional decision.
I should be clear that the most  important thing for me now is whether TSB ever 
properly communicated  their intentions about  the repayment plan to Mr M  and I 
dont think they did. So they should also let me know if there  are records  of further  
communications with Mr M which  weve not seen yet.
Ref: DRN48834095Mr Ms access to his benefits
On several occasions,  TSB have required Mr M to attend his local branch to access  
his benefit money.  Theyve paid for several taxi fares, presumably on the basis that 
they accept Mr M struggles to travel to the branch using public transport. But theres 
one taxi fare of £40 that theyve not covered.
The branch  is some distance from Mr Ms home.  The travel has caused him some  
inconvenience. Its also no doubt  been stressful for him given his mental health 
problems  which TSB were aware of.
TSB say they wanted Mr M to come  into branch  because  this allows them  to keep 
track of the spending of customers in financial difficulties. I think in Mr Ms case  - 
given his health problems and given  the distance to his local branch   this is an 
unreasonable requirement.
It seems  to me the reason  Mr M has a basic account  which is not supposed to go 
overdrawn  is his financial situation. And so the means TSB have to keep track of 
his spending is by providing him with a debit card through which attempted  payments 
which would take him overdrawn  can be blocked.
So, I dont accept that, in this particular  case,  requiring  Mr M to attend  his local 
branch to access his money is fair or reasonable. If TSB had asked Mr M to come 
into branch from time to time so that he could be advised or counselled about his 
finances  or so that they could properly discuss his repayment plan with him  I 
might take a different view.
But from the evidence  I have at the moment,  it appears Mr M was simply required to 
come into branch to withdraw cash.  Once  hed carried out that simple  transaction,  the 
purpose of the visit  as TSB saw it - was served  and he went on his way.
Putting things right
Mr M wants TSB to cancel his overdraft  and if not, reduce his payment plan to £5 
per month. He wants TSB to allow him access to his benefits  via ATMs and apologise 
to him. In disagreeing with our investigators view,  hes also made it clear that he 
thinks £50 is inadequate compensation  for his trouble and upset.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think TSB made mistakes in this case.
Mr M has been allowed  to go overdrawn when that shouldnt be possible with his 
account unless  in exceptional  circumstances.  And I cant  see the exceptional  
circumstances to explain how it happened in this case.
The communication about his overdraft and his repayment plan has been  poor.  Mr M 
has tried on a number of occasions  to discuss matters with TSB and hes complained 
to them  several  times about the situation as he sees it.
But, according to what Ive seen so far, hes not been given any satisfactory 
explanation about why he went overdrawn, about  the way the repayment plan would 
operate or about why he wasnt  allowed to access his benefits via ATM transactions.
Ref: DRN48834096The net result is that Mr M has spent  considerable time and effort trying to get 
answers from TSB,  for more than twelve months,  without much  success.  And that 
must have  been  frustrating and stressful for Mr M, especially in light of his mental 
health problems.  He also tells us hes spent  a considerable amount of money on 
phone calls, a small part of which has been  reimbursed by TSB.
Mr M has been forced to travel to his local branch several times for no apparent  
reason other than to be allowed access to his benefits. And this has caused him 
considerable stress and inconvenience.  Again, I bear in mind the particular  
circumstances of this case and Mr Ms mental health  issues.
The unsatisfactory situation  and uncertainty has been allowed to go on  in my view 
unnecessarily  for a prolonged period of time. And I think it would have been 
relatively easy for TSB to resolve  the issues very soon after Mr M went  overdrawn.
TSB could  have set out very clearly for Mr M a repayment plan which  would see his 
overdraft limit reduced by £10 per month  with any attempted payments over the 
limit not being authorised on Mr Ms debit card. If this was the plan, it appears it 
wasnt articulated for Mr M in a way that he could understand.
Ive already said (above) why I dont think TSB should cancel Mr Ms overdraft. Mr M 
used that money  and he owes it to TSB.
However given the stress and inconvenience  Mr M has suffered as a result  of TSBs 
actions over a prolonged period of time, and bearing  in mind his mental health issues, 
I think the £50 compensation suggested by our investigator is inadequate.  Im minded 
to require TSB to pay Mr M £350 in compensation, which is to include the £40 taxi 
fare they havent as yet covered.
In this particular  case, I think the first part of that compensation should be used to 
clear whatever still remains of Mr Ms overdraft  with TSB. I think  this is fair to the bank 
 to whom this money is owed  and to Mr M, given that this will presumably reduce 
the stress  he may experience as a result of the debt hanging over him.
This may go without saying but to be clear,  from now on  given that Mr M will not 
have an overdraft - TSB should also allow him to access  any funds in his account 
through ATM transactions.
I understand Mr Ms wish to have an apology  from TSB. Im minded to leave that to 
TSB to decide. I think theyve made  errors in this case, but I hope  Mr M will 
understand that an apology which TSB are required to give isnt a real apology at all.
For those reasons, I said I was minded to uphold  Mr Ms complaint and require TSB to pay 
him £350 for his trouble and upset.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr M has said he agrees with my provisional  decision.
TSB responded to my provisional decision after the (reasonable) deadline  we gave. 
Nonetheless, I will address their comments.
Ref: DRN48834097They said they cant guarantee  that Mr M wont have to visit a branch in future to access  his 
benefits. This is because  their standard process  requires this when  the customer is in 
arrears.
The also suggested  we advise Mr M to contact a debt management charity who may be able 
to help him with his budgeting. 
  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the comments Ive received,  I havent  changed my mind about  the outcome of this 
case.
Im satisfied TSB treated Mr M unfairly in the way his account was handled.  And Im satisfied 
this has caused  Mr M considerable inconvenience and stress.
TSB suggest  we advise  Mr M to contact a debt management charity. We have made Mr M 
aware of this kind of organisation  and what they do  as have TSB, which  I think  is to their 
credit. Whether Mr M takes up that advice is a matter for him.
I take TSBs  point about when and why Mr M may need to visit a branch to access  his 
benefits. 
However, his account doesnt have an overdraft facility. Theres  no reason to suspect that 
his account will go into overdraft again.  If it does  and thats  not the result of an error on 
TSBs part  then I agree they may need to follow their usual process and invite  Mr M to visit 
a branch. But I dont  think  that should  happen unless in exceptional circumstances.
My provisional decision was intentionally  set out in the way it was to indicate that Mr M 
should have ATM access to available funds  in his account (not to an overdraft  facility).  
I appreciate TSB are suggesting something slightly different. If I understand it, theyre  saying 
Mr M will have to come into branch to access his benefits if hes gone  overdrawn before the 
benefits are paid in  even if the benefits bring his account back  into credit.
I dont think that situation  should  arise in future. If it does, TSBs position  wouldnt be 
unreasonable if Mr M goes into overdraft  and thats not the fault of an error on the part of 
TSB. Ive reflected this in my final decision below.   
Ref: DRN48834098my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
TSB Bank plc must pay Mr M £350  for his trouble  and upset. And they must  in future allow  
Mr M to access funds  in his account via ATM transactions unless his account goes into 
arrears and thats not the result of an error  on their part.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883409