K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the service  theyve received from Saga Services  Limited  in 
relation to their home and contents insurance policy. They believe decisions made by Saga 
have caused them a financial loss .
Although both Mr and Mrs M are policyholders,  as Mr M has done all the correspondence in 
relation to this complaint, for ease of reading,  Ill mostly only refer to him.
background
In April 2015 Mr M took out a home  insurance policy through Saga. The policy  provided up 
to £75,000 of cover for contents. There  was an option to have £50,000 worth of cover,  but 
Mr M felt this didnt accurately reflect the value of his contents and elected for the higher 
amount.
The policy was renewed yearly until 2018. Unfortunately in 2018 there was a fire at Mr Ms 
home. As a result of this and the subsequent claim Mr M felt that he was underinsured.  He 
became aware  that in November 2015 Saga changed the base level of contents  cover they 
offered. This meant all their customers with £50,000 worth of contents cover, had their cover 
increased to £75,000.  
The customers such as Mr M who were  already  on £75,000 saw no increase  in their amount 
of cover.  Mr M thinks this is unfair  and complained. He says he would have  expected his 
cover to also increase  when the basic level changed.
Saga responded to the complaint  and explained that Mr M had only ever asked for £75,000 
of contents cover. And prior to each (automatic) renewal, he was presented with information 
explaining the amount of cover, which had remained constant at £75,000  for contents. They  
said that if Mr Ms circumstances  had changed  and he required more cover, it was for him to 
inform them  of that.
There was also a further issue in relation to the settlement of the claim and  the  cost of 
disposal of damaged property. Mr M referred his complaint  to our service.  One of our 
investigators concluded that Saga  werent  responsible for any issues  in relation to the claim 
 they would be the responsibility of the underwriter of the policy.  And with regard to the 
amount of cover  he concluded Mr M hadnt been  treated  unfairly by Saga so he didnt 
recommend that they needed  to do more. 
Mr M doesnt accept this and has asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know  this will be disappointing  for Mr M, so 
Id like to explain why. 
the claim
Ref: DRN49143332Mr M was told in an email from Saga dated 12 July 2018 that Costs incurred to process the 
claim are not, and should not, be deducted from your sum insured amount. A further email 
on 16 July 2018  had similar content.  There was a third email  on 23 July 2018 which said 
With regard to the claim costs you have incurred, in the correspondence you have provided 
it states that these  are costs you have agreed  to. The basis  of the cash settlement is that 
you arrange for any work to be undertaken to replace and restore  your contents, including  
the removal and disposal of any unrepairable content items. Therefore,  the costs  you have 
incurred are correct, as per the agreement of the cash settlement offer. As we do not 
underwrite your policy or administer the claims service, we are unable to make any claim 
decisions
Mr Ms policy documents show that the policy was underwritten by a different  business. Its 
common for underwriters to have other businesses act on their behalf with regard to claims 
handling. And in doing  so, such businesses (the loss adjuster in this case being an example) 
will be acting  as an agent of the underwriter who will retain  ultimate responsibility. Sagas 
role is limited to selling the policy and administering it by sending out policy documentation 
etc. They  have no responsibility in the claim handling or claim decisions. But if a customer  of 
theirs asks them a general question, Id still expect  them to answer  it clearly  and correctly. 
Mr Ms own submissions  state that he was advised  by the loss adjuster to accept a cash 
settlement for his claim. But Saga arent responsible  for any actions or omissions  of the loss 
adjuster. And it would therefore be inappropriate for me to comment on that in this decision. I 
think Sagas emails are referring to the cost of administering  the claim. Generally speaking  
this would include things  such  as the cost of the loss adjuster assessing the claim and the 
insurers back office functions. These arent  usually factored  in to a cash  settlement or 
deducted from a sum insured. And the point  Mr M takes issue with refers to the costs  of 
disposal of items, which would generally  come  from the sum insured  as part of the cost of 
sorting out the damage caused.  So I dont think Saga provided incorrect  information.  
Taking all the circumstances into consideration Im not persuaded that Saga can fairly be 
held liable  for either Mr Ms decision to accept a cash settlement nor any contract entered  
into for disposal of his property. If Mr M has concerns  about  the actions or omissions of the 
loss adjuster or being made sufficiently aware of the consequences  of accepting a cash 
settlement, this is something  he would need  to address to the underwriter of his policy.  
the level of cover
It was Mr M who initially selected the level of contents cover at £75,000  in 2015. I 
understand that at the time there was a lower level of cover available of £50,000. Ive looked 
at the renewal documents that were sent out to Mr M yearly from 2016 through  to 2018. All 
of these set out the level of contents cover as unchanged at £75,000.  They also all include a 
request to contact Saga  if the home  insurance requirements had changed. Im satisfied this 
information is presented  in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Based on this, I think Mr M was obliged to let Saga know if his circumstances had changed 
meaning he needed a greater level of cover. Saga  are reliant  on the information Mr M 
provides. And if it transpired that £75,000  was an insufficient amount of contents cover, I 
cant fairly conclude  that Saga are to blame  for this. 
I understand Mr M feels that his policy was downgraded and that Saga had an obligation to 
inform him when they made changes to the levels of cover  they were  offering. Ive thought 
carefully about this point.  Irrespective of where Mr Ms policy  fell within  the range of options 
Ref: DRN49143333provided by Saga there wasnt a change  in the amount of cover  available  under his policy. 
Mr M asked  for and was provided with up to £75,000 worth of cover for contents. 
This was clearly communicated to Mr M at each renewal invitation. The decision to vary the 
level of cover for other  customers is one I think Saga are entitled  to make. I dont  think it is 
unreasonable not to communicate such changes to customers  who arent impacted by them. 
I also dont think the decision  to increase the amount of cover  for customers  on a certain 
product, means  they need to do so for all their customers. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Saga have treated Mr M unfairly. They 
have been clear and upfront about  the amount of cover they were offering and the premium 
they were charging  for this. As I dont think Saga have done  anything wrong, Im not 
directing that they need to take any action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4914333