K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  didnt provide her with written 
confirmation of her landlord insurance  cover within a reasonable timeframe.  
background
Lloyds provided  Miss C with a quote for landlord  insurance cover.  On 28 January, Miss C 
called Lloyds and, after making some changes  to the quote, went ahead with the policy.  
Lloyds confirmed cover  was in place.
The next day, Miss C called  Lloyds as she hadnt received email confirmation that the policy  
was in place, and says she was told she didnt  have a policy.  On 30 January, Miss C visited  
her local branch as she still hadnt received email confirmation of the policy. Miss C says she 
was initially told she didnt  have  cover,  but once the matter was escalated  to a manager, she 
was then advised that she did. 
Despite requesting email  confirmation that she had a policy,  Miss C still didnt receive this. 
On 4 February, Miss C logged a complaint. It was then discovered  that Miss Cs email 
address had been entered  into Lloyds system  incorrectly. The matter  was put right at this 
time and Miss C received written confirmation  the cover was in place.
Lloyds apologised  for the error, and offered Miss C £40 compensation. Unhappy with this, 
Miss C brought  a complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Although Lloyds had made  an 
administration error,  she noted  that the email  address had been repeated back  to Miss C, 
and Miss C had said that it was correct. She thought the compensation offered by Lloyds 
was appropriate  in the circumstances. 
Miss C didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the relevant calls,  and when Miss C initially  called Lloyds for a quote, she 
provided her correct email  address. However, when she then spoke with Lloyds on 28 
January, she said she hadnt received the quote by email as shed been expecting. The 
adviser read out the email  address  Lloyds  had for her, which  was incorrect (it had an 
additional letter).  Unfortunately, Miss C didnt notice this and said it was correct.  
Miss C went ahead with the quote during that call. Lloyds confirmed that Miss Cs cover was 
in place. The adviser gave Miss C her policy number and said payment would be taken 
immediately, and that shed receive confirmation  of the agreement  in the post within  the next 
14 days.
Although Miss C had been told shed receive  confirmation in the post, she thought shed also 
get confirmation in an email.  Miss C explains she called  Lloyds  when she didnt get an email, 
but was told she didnt have a policy. 
Ref: DRN43078602Understandably worried about this, Miss C therefore  went to her local branch (on 30 
January) and says she was again  told she didnt  have cover. I see her local branch called 
the relevant department, and it was confirmed that she did have a policy  in place.  Miss C 
has confirmed that once the matter  was escalated to a manager in the branch, she was told 
she did have cover. 
I see that Miss C called Lloyds later the same  day, and it was again  confirmed that she had 
cover in place. The adviser said an email  would be sent to confirm this by the end of the 
following day. 
Unfortunately, Miss C didnt receive that email, because Lloyds had the wrong email address 
for her on its systems.  I understand Miss C had given the branch  her correct email  address, 
and it would have  been helpful if Lloyds had checked this against the email address it had 
for Miss C on its system.  It didnt do so, and therefore when  the email  confirmation was sent 
to Miss C, it didnt reach her. 
Given that I assume the email would have bounced  back, I think  Lloyds could have done  
more in the circumstances. It could have quite easily called  Miss C to confirm the email 
address on its system.  I think  its failure to do this caused Miss C unnecessary upset and 
inconvenience. 
Overall, I think it was appropriate for Lloyds to offer Miss C financial redress for the upset 
caused to her. However, like the investigator,  I think the £40 offer Lloyds has made is 
reasonable. That takes into account that Lloyds  did ask Miss C to confirm the email address 
it had was correct, and also that the matter was put right around  a week  later. 
Miss C says she missed going  on an overseas work trip because she didnt know if she had 
cover in place. Shes shown this service an invitation shed received for a business trip. 
Although she hadnt  booked  any flights, she says shed intended to fly on 3 February in time 
for the conference on 5/6 February, but by the time she received written confirmation  that 
her policy was in place, this was on 4 February and it was too late for her to travel. 
Miss C has explained  to me how strongly she feels about this. However,  I dont agree with 
Miss C that it was necessary for her to remain in the UK. I understand Miss C had apparently 
been told over the phone that she didnt have cover  in place, then after she went into the 
branch on 30 January,  she says she was told again  that she didnt have a policy. But after 
speaking to a manager, it was confirmed  to her that she did have cover. This was again 
confirmed to her over the phone the same  day. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss C wanted  it in writing that her cover  was in place,  I think she was 
given sufficient assurances that she did indeed  have a policy and therefore could have still 
attended her trip if she wished. 
Overall, and whilst I recognise Miss C will be disappointed with my findings, Im satisfied the 
£40 compensation  is appropriate for the level of inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN43078603My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as I think Lloyds has offered 
appropriate compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4307860