K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the level of interest applied in respect of Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) orders on her account with Shop Direct  Finance  Company Limited (trading as 
Very).
background
Miss M opened a Very account in 2007. Between December 2017  and April 2018 interest 
was applied to Miss Ms account in respect of BNPL items which she had ordered.
Miss M has said that she didnt pay for the BNPL items when she should  have  done  because 
she was experiencing mental  health issues at the time. She has said that these issues 
meant that she wasnt able to keep track  of her account. Miss M has said that the change 
from paper  to online statements made it particularly difficult for her to manage her account.
Miss M wants  Very to refund the interest  which has been charged to her account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that the interest charged on the BNPL  
items was charged in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account  and that 
although Miss Ms mental health  issues may have meant that she hadnt paid for the items in 
time, Very hadnt made an error in applying the interest.
Miss M didnt agree. She said the change from paper to online statements had caused  her to 
lose track of her account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions relating to BNPL. These say that interest will be 
charged if the items arent  paid for before the end of the BNPL period. Im satisfied that the 
terms and conditions are clear and that interest  has been charged in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Ive also looked  at the medical evidence provided  by Miss M. This suggests that her mental 
health issues could  result in her struggling with paperwork. Based on this, Ive no reason  to 
doubt Miss M when  she says that she had difficulty keeping track of her account. But I cant 
see that Miss M made Very aware  of her mental health issues  until fairly  recently  (and after 
the BNPL interest had been charged),  so I cant say that Very failed to make reasonable 
adjustments for Miss M.
Miss M has said that she found it particularly difficult to manage her account  when it was 
switched from paper statements to online statements.  Ive looked at the account history  and I 
can see that it changed to online statements in December 2015.  However,  I cant see that 
there were any issues with payment on the account until January 2018. So I cant  be certain 
that the switch  to online statements was a significant  factor in Miss M not being able to 
manage the account.
Based on the information Ive seen. Miss Ms first BNPL item was due for payment by 12 
January 2018.  I can see that Miss M made  a payment in December 2017 but the payment 
Ref: DRN47605772wasnt enough to cover the BNPL balance so interest was charged to the account.  I can also 
see that Miss M made further  payments in respect  of different BNPL  items  in January 2018 
and April 2018 but again, the payments werent enough to cover the BNPL balance.
The account  history  shows  that Miss M has accessed her account online and made 
payments online.  To that extent, it looks like Miss M has been able to manage  her account 
and despite not paying the BNPL items in full, Miss M has always  made the minimum 
monthly payment.
I understand that Miss Ms account  has now been changed back  to paper statements, which  
is what I would expect  Very to do once it was made aware that Miss M was having difficulties 
with online  statements. However, in relation to the BNPL interest, Im unable to conclude that 
Very has made an error in charging this or that it has treated Miss M unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4760577