K820x#14complaint
Mr V has membership  of a group,  private  medical insurance policy,  via by his employer. He
complains that BUPA Insurance Limited misled him about what  was included in the 
consultation it preauthorised.  
background
In 2018, Mr V had an open referral to see a gastroenterologist. He spoke  with BUPA  on 
30 November 2018. BUPA  authorised  an initial consultation, minor diagnostic tests  and a 
follow up consultation. Mr V had a consultation  and some tests and BUPA paid part of the 
claim up to the annual limit of £1,500.  Invoices  amounting to over £900 remain outstanding.
Mr V says that BUPA misled him. He understood that basic  blood tests, ultrasounds and 
x-rays were preapproved and included in the initial consultation fee of £250,  which  would 
come out of his outpatient allowance. Mr V says that he wouldnt have had the tests if hed 
known the true position. Mr V wants  BUPA to recognise its error and pay the outstanding 
invoices.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
made an error. The investigator listened  to the recording of the phone call in November 2018 
and she didnt think that BUPA misled Mr V. BUPA  told Mr V that the relevant limit was 
£1,500 and any costs above  that are his responsibility. So, the investigator didnt ask BUPA 
to do any more.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator. He said that BUPA confused  him and he understood 
that the outstanding amounts would be covered in the consultation fee. Mr V said that he 
had no concept  of the cost and that the phone call was genuinely misleading. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is the policy,  which provides that theres a limit of up to £1,500 each year 
for outpatient  consultation, therapies and diagnostic tests. 
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call Mr V had with BUPA in November 2018. 
BUPA authorised  an initial consultation, minor diagnostic  tests and a follow-up consultation. 
It told Mr V that his remaining outpatient allowance was £707 and that hed be responsible 
for fees in excess of that. BUPA said that fees would come  from the outpatient allowance 
and that he should monitor that, as hed be responsible for anything  in excess  of £707. 
BUPA said that blood tests can erode the allowance  very quickly.  It also told Mr V that a new 
policy year started the following January.
I dont think that BUPA  misled Mr V. I appreciate that Mr V thought that the consultation fee 
included tests. That wasnt the case.  I dont  think that BUPA caused Mr Vs 
misunderstanding. 
Ref: DRN44895772Mr V is responsible for the costs he incurs in having  private treatment. However, if his 
treatment is eligible treatment, BUPA pay the costs  that are covered under his benefits.  Any 
costs, including eligible  treatment costs,  that are not covered under Mr Vs benefits  are 
Mr Vs responsibility . BUPA wouldnt necessarily know  the prices  of the consultation  or tests. 
If Mr V wanted to ensure that everything  was covered, it was open  to him to check  the 
pricing with the clinic or hospital. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr V but there are no grounds on which  to direct BUPA to do anything  
further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489577