K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms W are unhappy Kensington Mortgage  Company  Limited (Kensington) hasnt 
agreed to their proposed payment plan which includes extending the term of their interest 
only mortgage.
Mr and Ms W have  a representative in this case.  Ill call him Mr J.
background
Mr and Ms W have  an interest only mortgage with Kensington which was sold via a broker.  
They took out the mortgage for around  £66,000 (including added  fees)  in April 2008 on a 
fixed rate of 8.39% for 24 months after which it reverted to a standard variable interest rate 
(SVR) of 8.79%. The term of the mortgage was 10 years  so it was due to end in 
April 2018. And the agreed monthly mortgage repayments were  initially  around £460.  
Weve been given copies of the mortgage documentation from the time of the sale  
including the mortgage application and offer. The mortgage application shows  it was taken 
out, in part, to refinance a bridging loan.
In February and March  2018, Mr J got in touch  with Kensington  to discuss  a payment plan 
as the mortgage term was due to come to an end. The call notes from around that time show 
Mr J explained Mr and Ms W didnt have a repayment vehicle to clear the capital. But he said 
they would  be able to pay around £1038 per month to clear the outstanding balance  on the 
account within five years. The notes  say Kensington told Mr J that a term extension of five 
years wouldnt  be agreed  and it would only be able to offer an extension  of 12-24 months 
depending on the repayment vehicle  being offered and whether it can be evidenced. He later 
proposed a payment plan of around  £1223 per month for 55 months  which was also declined 
by Kensington.
Mr and Ms W have  explained theyre  not currently in a position  to repay the outstanding  
balance of the mortgage in full and they cant currently sell their property to repay the 
borrowing. This is because they cant downsize at present  as theyll  have their daughter and 
grandchildren living with them. Theyve said, even if they were  able to sell their property for 
the amount its been valued  at, once they repay what  they owe together with fees,  it wouldnt 
leave them sufficient  funds to purchase a new property  in the area.  
Mr Js given us a copy of the income  and expenditure (I&E) details completed on 
Mr and Ms Ws behalf in 2018. From  this, their monthly living expenses appear to be around 
£1,800 (before any mortgage  payments)  and their net disposable income is around £1190 
per month. 
Weve also been  given copies of the contact notes from Mr and Ms Ws account and the 
transactions on the account which show at times Mr and Ms W have struggled  to keep up 
the mortgage payments. So they fell into arrears on their account  and other  charges  
including ground  rent and service charges  were  covered by Kensington and added to the 
outstanding debt. Theyve said Ms W has been  in the same work since  taking  out the 
mortgage in 2008 but Mr W  who is the main income earner   is now in different work. 
Theyve explained his work was affected  by the financial crisis and it was during this time 
that they struggled to keep up the mortgage  payments. Kensington  has said Mr and Ms W 
havent made any payments to the mortgage since March 2018.
Ref: DRN40452642Kensingtons said when Mr and Ms W originally  took out their mortgage, they indicated on 
the application form that their intended  repayment  vehicle  was to sell their property  and 
they were aware  the capital would be outstanding and need to be repaid. Its said its not 
obliged to extend the mortgage term but it will always review applications on a case  by case 
basis. And itd declined Mr and Ms Ws proposals as it would  take too long for them to repay 
the outstanding balance  and they hadnt given any evidence to support their proposals. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought Mr and Ms Ws combined income had 
improved so that theyre able to support the mortgage but theyre  unable  to repay it in full in 
one go. She thought Kensington had failed  to demonstrate it had complied  with the 
mortgage regulation because  she didnt  think it had made reasonable efforts  to reach  an 
agreement. And she didnt think  it had maintained an open  line of communication  with 
Mr and Ms W. So she thought Kensington should grant the extension  requested  to the 
interest only mortgage in order  to give Mr and Ms W the opportunity to reduce the balance. 
Kensington didnt  accept  our investigators  assessment.  It said it thought  extending the term 
so significantly would  delay the inevitable. And whilst it accepted under regulation it could  
extend the term, it didnt  agree this was the right thing to do. It offered to complete another  
I&E assessment with Mr and Ms W to understand their circumstances and reach an 
outcome. Our investigator didnt think this was appropriate as she thought this shouldve  
happened some  time ago. So the complaint was passed to me to review.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019. I explained I thought  the 
complaint should  be partially upheld in summary  because:
I didnt think Kensington had acted unfairly by declining Mr and Ms Ws request to extend 
the term of their interest only mortgage. And I didnt  think the term extension theyd 
applied for was in their best interests. But I wasnt persuaded Kensington had given fair 
consideration to the options  Mr and Ms W had put forward.  
I thought extending the term of the interest only mortgage in the way Mr and Ms W had 
asked would only delay the problem theyre  facing now.  Looking at their plans, I didnt 
think theyd be able to repay  the outstanding  balance by the end of the term by making  
the repayments theyd proposed. And if they paid the increased amount theyd proposed  
over the extended  term, I didnt  think theyd be in a position to save  up to pay off the 
balance at the end.
Overall, I wasnt satisfied extending  the term would increase the likelihood  of 
Mr and Ms W being able to repay the balance later. And I thought  it was likely they could 
be put into a worse position  if house prices fell by the end of the extended term.
Id looked  at their repayment history and Mr and Ms Ws I&E. And I thought  theyd 
struggled to consistently meet their mortgage payments even when these were only 
covering interest  each  month  and they hadnt  made any payments since  March  2018. 
So the outstanding balance had increased. And the amount they proposed to pay each 
month was the majority of their net disposable income. 
I hadnt seen  enough to demonstrate Mr and Ms W had kept up with the payments since 
Mr W said hed changed employment   or that they could afford  to pay more  each  
month. 
Ref: DRN40452643To put things right in this case, I thought Kensington should grant Mr and Ms W an extension 
of a further 12 months from the date of my final decision to explore their options in reducing  
the outstanding capital  on the mortgage  and allow them to sell their property. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Kensington explained it didnt have further  comments to make about  the outcome   but it did 
explain it wasnt sure how the direction was a partial  uphold as itd already offered to 
consider an extension of 12-24 months previously. 
Mr J initially responded  to say he believed Mr and Ms W hadnt missed any mortgage 
payments for some time. And the proposal  Mr and Ms W made was to extend the mortgage 
for five years  on a repayment basis  which they thought was affordable. But following 
further information from our investigator  showing the payments had been  missed, he 
explained Mr and Ms W thought they didnt need  to make any payments  towards  the 
mortgage whilst our service was looking into things as the term had expired. He said he 
assumed theyd saved  up the money they hadnt paid towards  the mortgage during  this 
period. And he said Mr Ws work  was going well and they could afford  higher repayments  if 
the term was extended  on a repayment basis. 
Our investigator asked  for evidence of the funds Mr and Ms W had saved over this period or 
what theyd be able to afford going forward. But Mr and Ms W didnt respond to this.
my findings
Ive carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments  including  what  
Mr and Ms W have  said to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And whilst I understand its going to be disappointing for Mr and Ms W, I still think  
the complaint  should be upheld in part only.
I appreciate Mr and Ms W have said theyve not paid towards their mortgage  due to a 
misunderstanding. But Ive taken into consideration that they were missing  payments on 
borrowing secured  against their property. And I havent seen  anything  to suggest they were  
told by Kensington  or our service they didnt need  to make payments. Im also not persuaded 
they have been in a position to afford the payments  while  the complaint has been with our 
service. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr and Ms W have said about  being able to make 
increased payments  towards the mortgage on a repayment basis which  will help them  
reduce or pay off the outstanding capital before the end of the term. But that would likely 
have a material impact on whether they can afford the mortgage.  And theyve not given us 
any information to show it would be affordable for them   or that their circumstances have 
significantly changed since  their previous  I&E was completed. So overall, Im not satisfied 
switching to a repayment mortgage would be in their best interests.
Ive looked again at the information  Kensington gave us. And I can see it suggested it could 
look at extending  the term possibly for 12  24 months  if a repayment  vehicle  was provided 
with evidence. So there was no guarantee the term would  be extended by any amount of 
time. 
Ref: DRN40452644For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision and above,  I think  it would be fair in this 
case for Kensington to grant Mr and Ms W an extension  of a further 12 months  from the date 
of this decision to explore  their options in reducing  the outstanding capital on the mortgage  
and allow  them to sell their property.  During  this time, Kensington may want to see evidence  
of marketing, viewings  and offers or to liaise with the estate agent about this. If Mr and Ms W 
want to explore options with other  lenders, Kensington may also want to see evidence  of 
this. And I dont think that would be unreasonable in the circumstances. 
So overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision. And for the reasons  Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision, I partially uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Ms Ws complaint in part and direct  
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to grant Mr and Ms W an extension of a further  12 
months to their interest  only term from the date of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4045264