K820x#14complaint
Mr L is represented. His representative says an adviser from Abbey National Plc (now  
Santander UK Plc) gave  him unsuitable advice  in 2005 to invest  £10,000 in the Atlas 
Portfolio 3 Fund (the Fund); and that he surrendered the Fund in 2010 for £9,552.47.
background
Mr Ls representative says it sought,  without success, documentation from Santander related 
to the point of advice   and that Santander said it no longer holds those documents. The 
representative says,  in the absence  of such documents and based on an assessment of    
Mr Ls profile against the profile of the Fund, it considers that the Fund  was unsuitable for 
him (in 2005) because:
His profile was as follows  he was 60 years  old; he had recently received an 
inheritance of £15,000; he had also recently  faced an enforced career change,  
including a 40% pay cut, due to a change in personal circumstances; he spent some  
of his inheritance  and had £10,000 left over, which was completely consumed by 
investment in the Fund; this also amounted to almost all of his free assets at the time; 
and he had no previous investment experience when he invested in the fund.
Any meaningful  assessment  of his profile  at the time should have concluded that his 
inheritance should  never have been  exposed to risk and he never  should  have been 
recommended investment  of almost all of his available money  in what appears  to be 
a medium risk fund. Almost 40% of the Fund was in equities and alternative  assets,  
the former meant  exposure to stock market volatility and the latter are non-
mainstream and not easily managed. In addition,  20% of the Fund was invested into 
Corporate Bonds within which there was a 30% exposure to lower medium  grade 
(and therefore higher risk) bonds. 
The Fund mismatched  Mr Ls profile. He should  instead have been advised to invest 
in a high interest  savings account  which could have given him a healthy  return,  would 
have guaranteed safety of his capital and would have allowed him to avoid the initial  
and ongoing  costs of the Fund.
Santander disputes the complaint. It also initially considered the complaint out of time,  but 
this service concluded the opposite.  It was able to provide some information about the 
investment (including  transaction history)  which confirmed  the following:
Mr L invested £10,000 into the Direct Share Multi Manager Cautious Fund (the 
Cautious Fund) on 12 August 2005.
He liquidated  his investment on 11 January 2010 and recovered £9,552.47 from it.
The Key Features document for the Cautious  Fund says the objective  of the Multi 
Manager concept was to pursue,  with exposure to investment  risk, better returns than 
available from a savings  account, to benefit  from the expertise of multiple  fund 
managers and to invest for the medium to long term (at least five years).
The Key Features document also described the objective of the Cautious  Fund  as  
The Funds aim is to provide a better  return than that available  from cash  over the 
long term by investing in a range of quoted  investments  with some potential  for 
capital growth over the long term.
Asset allocation in the Cautious  Fund, based  on the Key Features document, was as 
follows  80% in bonds and the remainder  split across UK Equities (10%), US 
Equities (3.34%),  European Equities (3.33%)  and Japanese/Pacific  Equities (3.33%).  
The Fund Managers were also listed in the document.
Ref: DRN45361232One of our investigators  considered the available evidence and concluded that the complaint 
should not be upheld. She too noted  the lack of evidence  from the point of advice, but she 
drew this conclusion  based on the following: 
Her view that Mr L does not appear to have  had any particular  objective  for the 
investment, so it seems likely he had no plans  for the £10,000  capital at the time and 
had the capacity to invest  it for a reasonable period of time.
The Cautious Fund was relatively  low risk, with potential for growth,  so she 
considered that this was in line with what he wanted  at the time.
His representative says he invested almost all his free assets, but the lack of 
evidence about his financial circumstances at the time deprives this argument of 
support.
Overall, there is a lack of evidence to find that the Cautious Fund was unsuitable for 
Mr L.
Mr Ls representative disagreed with this outcome. It said he recalled earning around  £1,500  
per month at the time with no additional household income; and monthly  disposable income 
(after costs of living deductions) of no more than £200; so in such  tight financial 
circumstances the investment  and exposure to risk of his £10,000 capital  was unsuitable. It 
also added  that he planned to retire  at age 65, his wife was shortly due to retire  at the time of 
the investment,  he had limited savings and pensions arrangements.  Another  investigator 
inherited the case, reviewed it, concluded  in agreement with the previous investigator  and 
was not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  additional points.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties and the investigators  have noted, evidence from 2005 is limited  in this case.  I 
am satisfied  that there is sufficient transaction history evidence  and sufficient evidence  of the 
profile of the Cautious Fund.  I also consider that evidence  enough  to conclude that Mr Ls 
representatives reference to the Fund  and its composition appears to have  been  misguided. 
Evidence of the composition of the Cautious Fund is as summarised above and the list of 
Fund Managers included what I consider to be many  of the high profile and mainstream  
investment management  firms in the world.
Based on this evidence,  I am persuaded that, on balance, the Cautious Fund lived up to its 
name. With most  of its contents  80%  invested in bonds it was a significantly low risk 
product and was a cautious fund  and I do not consider  that its 20% equities content had 
the effect of displacing  that risk profile.  The medium to long term investment term does not 
appear to have been unreasonable for the type of fund that it was, and I have not seen 
evidence that Mr L incurred an unreasonable exit fee for liquidating the investment before its 
fifth anniversary  which suggests no such unreasonable exit fee was within  the associated 
terms. Mr Ls representative makes  a valid reference to costs. The Key Features document  
says there  was an initial charge of 4.5% and an annual management charge of 1.15%, 
neither of which appear to have been  outliers  in the sector and in the context of the sort of 
actively managed  fund the Cautious Fund was.
Ref: DRN45361233The analysis above supports the conclusion that the Cautious  Fund  would not have been 
unsuitable for Mr L if he held a cautious investor  profile. However, his representatives 
arguments assert that he either  was risk averse  or he should  have been viewed as having a 
risk averse profile. I do not consider that evidence  supports this. 
The references that have been  made  to elements of his personal and financial 
circumstances could  arguably apply to a cautious investor. Mr L has been presented as 
having been in receipt  of a modest income and as having little more, in savings/capital, than 
the £10,000 he invested. However, it is also his case that he spent around £5,000  of his 
inheritance prior to investing  the remainder  which suggests a financial capacity  to cater  for 
such spending. This does not support the notion that the £10,000  inheritance was heavily 
relied upon, especially as there is no evidence of any particular financial liability or 
expenditure it was required  for and especially as it is also Mr Ls evidence  that he had 
pension arrangements in place for his retirement  and limited  savings. 
I do not consider  that the Cautious Fund  was sold to him as a risk averse  product   the Key 
Features document  gives early notice of the opposite  and his representatives submissions 
concede that he knew his investment was exposed to risk. The conclusion  that follows is that 
Mr L made an investment  that he knew would expose him to a limited amount  of risk  the 
Cautious Fund had lowest  level of risk exposure, but for the 100% Bonds fund, in the 
different types  of Direct  Share Multi  Manager  funds available  and he did so with what 
appears to have been sufficient financial capacity. He does not appear to have been risk 
averse and, in the context of his willingness to undertake some  risks,  the Cautious Fund 
does not appear  to have mismatched any novice investor aspect of his profile.  
Overall, on balance and for the above  reasons, I am not persuaded that the investment was 
unsuitable for Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4536123