K821x#15complaint
Mr Y and Mr C complain  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
provided a poor service  when a lease agreement  for a car was ending  meaning there was a 
delay in arranging  for it to be collected.
background
In September  2015 Mr Y and Mr C leased  a car. In August 2018, as the agreement was 
coming to an end, Mr Y emailed MBFS asking about  how to arrange for the car to be 
collected. He received  an auto-response.
As Mr Y had heard nothing for four days he emailed two further times asking for a response.  
Two days later Mr Y was emailed back by MBFS asking some security questions. Mr Y 
responded the same day. 
Mr Y says he also tried several times  to call MBFS but was always in a long queue  of other 
callers so never got through.  He decided to complain  to MBFS. However by the end of 
August 2018 he got through to MBFS and was put in touch with the third party company that 
was responsible for collecting the car. The car was collected  at the beginning of September.
Mr Y says trying to make  contact with MBFS was unnecessarily stressful and it took 10 
working days to sort out having the car collected. Mr Y said hed been worried about the 
extra costs  that would  be incurred by keeping the car longer than he and Mr C had planned.
MBFS upheld Mr Ys complaint and said it had received an unprecedented level of incoming 
calls and this had led to some customers struggling  to make contact. It accepted  this would 
have been frustrating. MBFS said it was taking active steps to correct  the position  by 
recruiting more staff but that this solution  would take time.  It offered Mr Y a £50 gesture of 
goodwill for the stress caused.
Mr Y asked for a call from MBFS to discuss his complaint. MBFS called and discussed  the 
issue. It repeated its offer of £50 but Mr Y declined saying that amount  didnt  reflect the 
amount of time and effort he had put in trying to make  contact  with MBFS. He said that 
MBFS waiving the excess mileage fee would be a fair resolution. MBFS said it thought its 
offer of £50 was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Y and Mr C complained to this service. Our adjudicator upheld their complaint. She 
recommended that compensation  of £100 was appropriate in the circumstances.
Our adjudicator said that Mr Y had received  a poor level of service and a delay in being able 
to arrange for the car to be collected. She said she had listened  to the call provided by 
MBFS between its agent and Mr Y discussing the outcome of his complaint. Our adjudicator 
said the agent had, at times, spoken over Mr Y and hadnt offered  an apology. She said she 
appreciated an apology had been offered in the final response letter sent by MBFS to Mr Y 
but this hadnt been  reiterated to Mr Y during this call nor had MBFS acknowledged his 
comment that he had found its customer service  dreadful.
Our adjudicator said based on the uncertainty caused to Mr Y by not receiving a response to 
his enquiries this had caused him inconvenience  and distress as he didnt know  when the 
car would be collected  or whether he would incur additional costs. Hed had to try several  
Ref: DRN48281282times to make  contact.  Taking this and the way the call had been dealt with she considered  
£100 rather than £50 would be fair as compensation.
MBFS disagrees with our adjudicators view. It said that it wasnt  fair to increase the level of 
compensation by £50 because of the phone call between the agent  and Mr Y that discussed 
his complaint. MBFS said it thought the increase in compensation was a half-way  house as 
Mr Y had indicated he thought £150  would have been fair. 
MBFS said the adjudicator hadnt justified why the amount of compensation should be 
increased. It said monetary compensation was subjective and there  was no guidance about 
how it was calculated.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that MBFSs service to Mr Y didnt meet  a standard  he could have 
reasonably expected. The only issue for me to decide is what would be a fair level of 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused to Mr Y.
MBFS says that £50 is fair as the arrangements to collect the car were made within  10 
working days. Mr Y says that it should  be higher as it was due to his efforts  that the 
arrangements were made within that time frame and not those of MBFS. Mr Y says he had 
to spend a lot of time trying  to make contact.
Ive seen that MBFS has said that if Mr Y was unhappy at the way the phone call was 
handled he should raise that as a separate complaint. But I think thats unnecessary  as the 
call is part of Mr Ys complaint about MBFSs customer service and MBFS provided it to this 
service as part of its business file. So I think account  should be taken of what was said 
during that call.
Listening to that call I think Mr Ys makes his frustration  at events clear. He does say he 
wants to inconvenience  MBFS as it inconvenienced him. And although I appreciate  Mr Y 
may appear  as being unreasonable I think this is due to him venting his feelings  about the 
dreadful customer service hed received. The agent  didnt apologise  to Mr Y during that call, 
they spoke over him on occasions and set out that steps were  in place to improve  answering 
the phone.
Mr Y originally asked for MBFS  to write  off the excess mileage fee which was close  to £500  
so I dont think that would have been  reasonable as compensation for this complaint. 
However, Ive also seen that Mr Y, on reflection, reduced the amount he thought would be 
reasonable to £150.
I dont agree with MBFS that our adjudicators offer was a halfway house. I think  shed  
assessed the inconvenience  and frustration caused  to Mr Y trying to make  contact.  
Ive seen that after various emails and phone calls Mr Y managed  to speak someone but 
hed pressed the button to speak  to the team who deal with the accounts  in arrears. MBFS 
told Mr Y that this team has a lower  volume of calls and so was more available and were 
Ref: DRN48281283able to assist  him. But Mr Y says he had no confidence that if he hadnt  done that his car 
being collected wouldnt have progressed within the 10 working  days.
Looking at the evidence and that MBFS agree Mr Y received poor service  that caused  delay  
to the car being collected I think £50 compensation wasnt adequate to reflect the impact this 
had on him. I think the phone call with the agent did increase  his feelings of frustration as 
there was no apology made during  that call. I can understand Mr Ys view that if he hadnt 
persevered with calling MBFS  the delay to collecting the car would have  been  even longer. I 
dont think MBFS has been able to answer why his view would be inaccurate.
I agree  with MBFS that compensation for distress  and inconvenience is subjective to the 
individual and to the decision maker but I have considered this case on its own merits. Here, 
I think Mr Y had to put in significant effort to make  contact with MBFS and that wasnt  due to 
anything he was doing incorrectly. Although he received an apology in a letter he didnt when 
talking with MBFS about his complaint and that would  have added  to his disappointment and 
frustration as to how he was being  treated.
Ive also seen that as this was close to the end of the agreement  other  costs  were becoming 
a possibility and so Mr Y and Mr C would have  reasonably been  anxious to have the car 
collected.  
So looking  at this as a whole (I havent approached this as adding an extra  amount for the 
phone call on top of the original offer)  I think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable and 
Im asking MBFS to pay this amount to Mr Y and Mr C to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Y and Mr Cs complaint. Im asking 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  to pay Mr Y and Mr C £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to them in the delay  in making contact  and 
arrangements for the cars collection.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4828128