K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr P under  a hire purchase agreement  with VW Financial 
Services that was signed  in August 2017.  The car was written-off  in a collision with another  
car in July 2018.  Mr P injured his back  and knees and says that the seatbelt  unfastened,  the 
airbag didn't  deploy and the brakes seemed weak. His insurer  paid £5,550  to VW Financial  
Services  leaving an outstanding balance of £1,583.24 payable under the agreement.  He 
asked VW Financial Services to end his agreement (with nothing  further  to pay) and he 
complained that there was something  inherently wrong with the car, as such key safety 
features shouldn't fail in the event of a collision.  He wasnt satisfied  with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
evidence that hed seen shows no history of issues with the components about which Mr P 
had complained and he didnt agree that the car was inherently faulty when supplied to him. 
So he concluded that he wouldnt be asking VW Financial Services to do anything because 
he didn't think that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr P has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that the cars  safety systems failed during the collision which implies  that there  was a fault 
with the car. He says that the collision shouldve triggered the airbags and the seatbelts  
should have remained  buckled. He also says that the insurer  has made no comment  on the 
seatbelts and that hed be interested  to know what testing of the seatbelt takes place when 
the car is serviced.  And he says that hes become aware of a recent large  scale recall of this 
model of car relating  to belt buckle issues. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr P for the injuries and 
other issues that hes suffered as a result  of the collision.
Neither Mr P nor VW Financial Services has been able to provide a copy of the hire 
purchase agreement   but there  doesnt  seem to be any dispute  about the terms of that 
agreement. The car was written-off in a collision nearly a year after it was supplied  to Mr P 
but Mr P says that the car mustve been inherently  faulty when it was supplied  to him. 
But theres no evidence  to show that Mr P had contacted the dealer or VW Financial 
Services about any issues with the cars seatbelts,  airbags  or brakes  before the collision. 
The cars service history since it was new shows no issues  with the car seatbelts, airbags or 
brakes. And the car passed an MOT test in May 2018 with no advisories (and the MOT test 
includes a check on a cars seat belts  and brakes). The cars mileage at that time was 
recorded as being 37,754  so Mr P had used the car to drive about  8,000 miles without 
complaining about an issue with the brakes.  And Ive seen no evidence  to show  that the car 
hasnt been serviced  correctly.
Ref: DRN44391782Mr P has referred to recall  of this model of car for belt buckle issues. But Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the recall applies to Mr Ps car or that there was a known issue  with 
the cars  seat belts before the collision. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that there  was an issue with the 
cars seatbelts, airbags or brakes  when the car was supplied to Mr P. So Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at that time. 
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require VW 
Financial Services to write-off the outstanding balance owed by Mr P  or to take any other  
action in response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4439178