K820x#14complaint
Miss W complained about information  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  reported 
to credit reference agencies. 
background
Miss W had a credit card account with Halifax. She had made payments each month  by 
standing order until she paid £8000 in December 2016. Halifax said she made no payments 
on her account from January to May 2017, which they reported  to the credit reference 
agencies. 
Halifax said Miss W still had some  outstanding  debt on the account which accrued interest 
and charges over a number of months  meaning over £600 was owed on the account. Miss 
W didnt agree she owed this and said she had been  making payments by standing order  
and that shed paid off the debt. 
Halifax didnt accept  it had done  anything wrong,  but agreed  to write off the outstanding debt 
of in June 2017 which settled the account.  Miss W said she felt it was written  off due to 
mistakes made by Halifax, and that she had paid by standing  order  until there  was a nil 
balance. So Miss W didnt  think it was fair that Halifax had reported  her to the credit  
reference agencies.  Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything  wrong  so didnt 
recommend any further action. Miss W said disagreed as and so the matter  has come to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Banks must  report information  to credit reference  agencies that is a true reflection of a 
customers account history.  This means that if a customer doesnt make a payment when 
they were expected to, this will be reflected  on the consumers credit file. I think  Halifax 
acted fairly  and reasonably by reporting Miss W to the credit reference agencies,  and I will 
explain why. 
Having reviewed the file I am satisfied that the information reported to the credit reference  
agencies was a true reflection of the actions on Miss Ws credit card account.  Having 
reviewed the account statements I can see that there was an outstanding balance  on the 
account and that no payments were made between January and May 2017. 
I can also see that these  statements  which were sent to Miss W included details of the 
charges being  applied  for late payment, and the minimum balance  due. 
Further, they wrote to Miss W to give her notice that shed missed payments  under her credit 
agreement and advised her to get in touch if she was having financial difficulties. With this in 
mind I am satisfied that Halifax made  reasonable attempts to make Miss W aware of the 
outstanding balance on her account.  
Halifax offered to settle the account  without admission of liability  and this was reflected in the 
statement sent to Miss W in June 2017. This doesnt  mean  they think  they made a mistake, 
and doesnt remove  their duty to report late payments to credit reference agencies.  
Ref: DRN40014362Halifax showed us information sent to the credit  reference agencies which they explained  
meant that they reported that Miss W hadnt sent the necessary payments. We asked Miss 
W to provide copies of her credit reports to check if the correct markers  had been applied, 
but we werent  provided with copies of these. On balance I think they reported the correct 
information to the agencies.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and Halifax  do not need to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001436