K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Oakam Ltd took money from his bank account  without authorisation.  He 
asks for an apology and compensation  for his stress.
background
Mr A took out a £500 loan with Oakam in March 2015. The loan was repayable  in 
instalments over three  months. Repayments werent  made  on time and the outstanding 
balance (of £75) was passed to a debt collection business. Mr A says hes recently  repaid 
the balance.
Mr A says Oakam  took money from his account in December 2015 without his authorisation, 
leaving him without  money for food and transport.  He says it didnt help him when he called. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Oakam debited about £150 from Mr As account  in December 2015 using a continuous 
payment authority. It had attempted to take a payment in early  October, which  failed, and 
made five more unsuccessful attempts to take payment in October and November 2015. 
When its attempts to take payment failed Oakham should have considered whether Mr A 
was in financial difficulty. Making  repeated  attempts to take the payment was unfair.
Oakham should have  considered other ways to recover  the debt, such  as agreeing an 
affordable repayment plan.  Had it done  so, it was likely the debt would have been repaid. 
While Oakham  says it was unable to get in contact Mr A, it had opportunities to discuss  
repayment when  Mr A called in September and December 2015  and September  2017.
when Mr A contacted  Oakham in December 2015 and said he had financial difficulties 
Oakham agreed to refund  £75. This was on the basis Mr A would repay £75 the following 
week. Mr A didnt  make the payment.
Oakham promised Mr A a call back in September  2018.  It made the call the following 
day. There was no evidence this caused an unfair  amount of stress or inconvenience.  
Our adjudicator said Oakham should  pay compensation of £75 to Mr A for the trouble and 
upset caused.  She said while Mr A said the debt was repaid, if there is an unpaid  balance 
with the debt recovery agent Oakham  should  arrange to pay it or write it off. 
Oakham didnt agree,  saying its not appropriate to refund a legitimate balance owed. It said 
it attempted  to contact  Mr A to set up a payment arrangement but was unable to reach  him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN40207852what happened?
Mr A took out a loan with Oakham  in March 2015.  Mr A gave Oakham a continuous payment 
authority which  allowed  it to take payments  from his account. He agreed to repay the loan in 
instalments (£106 each fortnight) over three months.  Mr A didnt maintain repayments.  
Mr A made a payment in early September 2015.  He agreed that Oakham  should  take £150  
in early October.  Oakham made six attempts to take the payment from Mr As account 
during October  and November 2015, all of which failed.
Oakham took two payments on 11 December 2015, totalling about  £150, which  repaid the 
balance of Mr As account. Mr A contacted  Oakham a few days later. He said Oakham  didnt 
have authority to take the payments and he was in financial difficulties. Oakham refunded  
£75. Mr A agreed to repay the £75  which would clear the loan balance   the next week.  He 
didnt make the payment.
Oakham didnt apply any further  interest  or charges to the debt. The £75 balance  was 
passed to a debt recovery  agent.  Mr A says hes recently repaid the balance to the debt 
recovery agent. 
did Oakham act fairly?
Mr A had agreed to make a payment in early October  2015,  so I dont think  it was unfair for 
Oakham to try and take the payment  in early October. Oakham says it was unable  to reach 
Mr A about  the failed  payment or to reach a new repayment arrangement. But I think  the 
repeated failed attempts to take payments should have alerted Oakham to the possibility that 
Mr A had financial difficulties. I dont think it was fair to take £150 from his account  in these 
circumstances. 
what should happen now?
Mr A didnt make his contractual loan repayments on time. He agreed to make payments 
during 2015 which he didnt fulfil. And he didnt repay  the £75 in December 2015,  as hed 
agreed. That could be because his financial situation  meant he was unable  to do so. But I 
cant see that Mr A made any attempt  to contact Oakham about repaying the balance until 
September 2017. And then, again,  he made  a promise  to pay which  he didnt  fulfil.
I dont think its reasonable to say that Oakham  should have written off the balance  in late 
2015. It should have asked Mr A for information  about his financial circumstances with the 
aim of reaching an affordable repayment arrangement.  However,  I think  its unlikely Mr A 
would have maintained a repayment arrangement if Oakham had been able to agree one 
with him. So I dont think its any more likely that the loan would have been repaid if Oakham 
had made  more efforts to contact Mr A instead of trying to debit the amount  owed  under  its 
continuous payment  authority.
Mr A says hes repaid  the loan. So I have to consider whether its fair and reasonable to 
require Oakham to pay compensation to Mr A. 
I understand the points made  by Oakham   that the debt was due, Mr A had broken 
payment arrangements  and he didnt stay in contact. But I think its likely that Mr As 
circumstances made  it difficult to maintain payments, and he needed money for everyday 
expenses, such  as food and travel. I think it was unfair for Oakham  to debit £150 from Mr As 
Ref: DRN40207853account when  it had been alerted to the risk that he was in financial difficulties. I think  this 
would have caused Mr A trouble and upset  and I think its fair and reasonable to require  
Oakham to pay £75 to Mr A as compensation for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Oakam Ltd to pay £75 to Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4020785