K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs S took out with a store  card in 2002. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to give Mrs S clear information about it so she could decide 
if it was right for her. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think FICL gave Mrs S 
clear enough  information  on the costs and benefits of the policy.
The application form for the store card didnt show the cost of the policy  or explain  the 
impact the cost could  have on the outstanding balance or interest charged on the card. And I 
havent seen clear evidence to suggest  the costs  and benefits were clearly explained to 
Mrs S at any other point  during the sale either.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs S, as shes told us she wouldve been  entitled to six 
months full sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay. And shes  said she had savings 
she couldve  used to make her repayments  too.
FICL has questioned  whether Mrs S would actually have been  entitled to this amount of sick 
pay, and its sent us an extract from a document which says Mrs S wouldve been  entitled to 
significantly less sick pay due to her length of service at the time. But its not clear where this 
extract has come  from and so whether it relates  to Mrs S. Mrs S has been consistent about  
her sick pay entitlement  throughout  her complaint. And the sick pay she says doesnt  seem 
unreasonable given her employer and length of service.
So I think its likely Mrs S was entitled  to the sick pay she says, and had the savings she 
mentions. And so I think  she had enough financial protection to not really  need the PPI.
I dont think Mrs S wouldve  bought  the policy if FICL  had given her clear  enough information 
about it. And so I think Mrs S has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
Ref: DRN45041782putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs S would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL something on her card.  The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs S what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504178