K822xcomplaint
Mr P is very unhappy about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled his insurance  
claim following a water leak at his home.
background 
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 25 November 2020. That
decision sets out the background to the complaint and my provisional conclusions.
Mr P hasnt replied.  Aviva has said it accepts my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments for me to consider  I confirm  my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I think Aviva  Insurance  Limiteds offer to settle  this claim for cash is fair. But it should  
recalculate the proposed settlement using publicly available rates.
Aviva Insurance Limited should also pay Mr P compensation  of £300 for the upset caused 
and arrange to reimburse him for the additional electricity costs  incurred during the drying  
out of the property.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45396492copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P is very unhappy about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled his insurance  
claim following a water leak at his home.
background
In July 2018 Mr P returned home  to find water pouring through  his ceiling and soaking the 
floor and carpet. 
He made  an insurance  claim and Aviva appointed contractors to repair the damage. Before 
they could start the property had to be dried out and some of Mr Ps possessions needed to 
be taken away for storage. 
At the end of July Mr P complained to Aviva  about the length of time things were  taking and 
because he still had wet carpets in the house.  Aviva offered him £200 compensation which 
he accepted.
The claim continued but Mr P became very unhappy about the way things were progressing.  
He didnt think the contractors were  doing all the work they should or that they were doing 
things properly. Mr P had several meetings  on site with the loss adjuster to try to establish  
the extent of the work needed.
Things came to a head in mid-October 2018  when, following  a disagreement,  the decorators 
left the site and refused to continue  with the work.
Mr P complained to Aviva again  and the loss adjuster  visited to discuss  a cash settlement for 
the outstanding work.
Mr P then contacted a solicitor who wrote to Aviva on his behalf.  The solicitor  set out Mr Ps 
concerns and said that Mr P would prefer to employ  his own contractors to finish  the work 
and put right the damage caused by Aviva. He said Mr P had estimated this would cost at 
least £5,000.
In response, Aviva  said it had assessed the outstanding work as having  a cash  value of 
£723.30 and it offered  to pay that amount to Mr P to settle his claim. It also offered to pay 
another £100 compensation  for any further distress caused.
Mr Ps solicitor  replied to say Mr P didnt accept the offer and that the matter would be 
referred to us.
When Mr P wrote  to us he said he was complaining about work not being completed  and 
damage to his property.  He said Aviva had caused him to lose earnings  and had damaged 
his mental health.
Aviva returned some  of Mr Ps possessions while the complaint was being  looked at by one 
of our investigators. Mr P says some  of those possessions were  damaged.
Our investigator upheld  some parts of the complaint but not others. He said, in summary:
Ref: DRN45396493That, under the terms of Mr Ps policy, Aviva was only required to carry out work  
necessary to repair damage caused  by the leak. So some  of the things Mr P wanted 
werent covered.
He didnt think there was enough  evidence to show that Aviva had damaged  Mr Ps 
possessions. 
He did think there  had been  delays  and some shortcomings in the way Aviva had dealt 
with the claim. He recommended  that Aviva pay Mr P another £200 compensation to 
reflect that.
He noted that Aviva  had offered to settle  the remaining claim for £723.30.  He asked Mr P 
to provide details  if he didnt think  that was enough to finish the work.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator, but he didnt provide any further information. The 
matter has now been passed to me for a decision.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only set out a summary of events in this decision, but Ive looked at all the papers  and 
pictures Mr P sent us, and Ive read the emails  he exchanged with Aviva.
Having done that, Ive reached broadly the same  conclusions as our investigator, except in 
one respect. Ill explain  why, and where  my provisional decision differs  slightly from our 
investigators view.
Insurance is meant to give peace  of mind and ease any financial burden  when  unforeseen 
things happen.  But, unfortunately, it cant stop those unforeseen events being stressful in 
themselves. 
I must consider whether  Aviva dealt with Mr Ps claim  fairly and whether any shortcomings  
on its part added to the inconvenience and distress  undoubtedly caused  to Mr P by the leak 
and the damage  it did to his home.
Progressing the claim
At the outset Aviva had some difficulties  in progressing the claim. It was difficult  for Mr P to 
take time off work and the contractors werent  always able to attend  the property when he 
was available. I think Mr P may also have  preferred  his own contractors to do the work, but 
Aviva wasnt  prepared  to agree the costs quoted for that.
Bearing this in mind  I think Aviva  did try to move  things forward as quickly as it could. But it 
did agree  that it was unacceptable for Mr P to be left with wet carpets for as long as he was. 
It offered  £200 for the initial delays  and I think that was fair. 
It seems  to me that many  of the problems that arose  were  because Mr P expected the 
contractors to do more  than they had been instructed to do by Aviva. Aviva says it agreed  a 
Ref: DRN45396494schedule of repairs or replacements, on a like-for-like basis,  based on the damage caused  
by the flood. That is what it was required to do under the terms of the policy.
Its possible there was some misunderstanding between Mr P and Aviva on what would be 
included, or how it would be done. But I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to persuade me 
that Aviva  didnt try to complete the works in accordance with the policy terms.
Some of the work was settled in cash and other work was started but not completed. When 
Mr P contacted a solicitor  it seems that both parties felt the better way to resolve things 
would be to agree a cash settlement for the outstanding work. 
Aviva offered to pay £723.30 to settle the claim. Mr P has said he that isnt enough  but 
hasnt provided  any further information  or evidence  to show why not. 
This is where I differ slightly from our investigator.  
Aviva has provided a schedule of work  showing the outstanding decorative  work to be 
completed. Its loss adjuster estimates  the work will take about a week. Based on that 
schedule Aviva has calculated that it would cost it £723.30 to complete the work, and it has 
offered that amount  to Mr P.
In the absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary Im inclined to say that the schedule  of 
work to be completed  is correct. 
However, Aviva has told us that the rates it used to calculate the amount offered were 
preferential rates, in other words rates it has been  able to negotiate  with its own 
contractors. It has explained that these are the rates which it would usually use for a cash 
settlement under the terms of the policy.
I understand Avivas  point, but I dont think that would be a fair outcome for Mr P.
In this case Aviva chose to repair the property and started to do so. We would normally  
expect it to complete  those repairs.
However, it seems that a cash  settlement is now the preferred option of both parties  and so I 
think its reasonable for Aviva to settle the claim in that way. But I think Aviva  should 
recalculate its offer using  publicly available rates. In other words it should put Mr P in the 
position of being able to use contractors of his choice at rates  generally available to the 
public. 
Aviva and Mr P both found this claim difficult to deal with. Mr P has explained that he has a 
mental illness and found the situation  very stressful. Aviva was aware of that. Whilst Aviva 
did have regard to Mr Ps situation,  I think it could have done more  when difficulties  arose 
with the decorators. Although the loss adjuster visited again and discussed a cash  
settlement it seems Mr P felt he was left in limbo at that point and that he had no option but 
to consult solicitors.
In the circumstances I dont think Mr P should  be disadvantaged because the decorators 
decided to leave  the job unfinished.
Damaged items
Ref: DRN45396495Mr P says that the contractors damaged his table and left a rug and sofa dirty. He also says 
they damaged  two fruit machines, dismantled a home gym and generally  treated his property 
with disrespect.
I know that Mr P is very upset about  the way he says his property was treated. But Ive 
looked carefully at the pictures Mr P sent and Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. There is simply too little evidence to satisfy me that any damage was caused by 
the contractors.
Mr P should  understand that I dont  disbelieve him, and I understand his strength  of feeling. 
Its plausible, for instance, that the electrics  on the fruit machines were upset by being 
moved in and out of the property. But it was necessary to move the fruit machines, so that 
the work  could be done. I dont think it necessarily means the contractors werent careful 
with the items. 
Other losses
Mr P claims loss of earnings,  solicitors costs and damage to his mental health.
I dont think it would  be fair for me to require Aviva to pay Mr P for his lost earnings or 
solicitors costs.
I say that because insurance  claims are usually inconvenient and often involve people 
having to take time of work to keep appointments or to be at home  for workmen. Im aware 
that this was difficult for Mr P, that he had dogs at home and so wanted  to be on hand when 
the work  was done. But I dont think Aviva was unreasonable  in its requirements.
Mr P instructed solicitors  to write  to Aviva, but he could have come straight to us. So I dont 
think I should ask Aviva to pay his solicitors costs.
Mr P has clearly  been caused a lot of distress  and Im sorry to hear this has affected his 
health. The leak of water and the damage it caused to Mr Ps home will have been very 
upsetting for him. Aviva isnt responsible  for that. But Aviva has accepted  that there were 
some failings in its handling  of the matter and that will have added  to Mr Ps distress.
Its difficult to assess  compensation  in a case like this. But, taking everything into account  I 
agree with our investigator that it would be fair for Aviva to increase its payment of 
compensation to a total of £500. I understand that £200 has already been paid so that 
means Aviva will pay another £300.
Additional electricity costs
I would just add that Aviva  has confirmed during our investigation that it hasnt  yet paid Mr P 
for the additional  electricity it used when drying  out the property. Aviva should now make 
arrangements to do that.
my provisional decision
I think Aviva  Insurance  Limiteds offer to settle  this claim for cash is fair. But it should  
recalculate the proposed settlement using publicly available rates.
Ref: DRN45396496Aviva Insurance Limited should also pay Mr P compensation  of £300 for the upset caused 
and arrange to reimburse him for the additional electricity costs  incurred during the drying  
out of the property.
Ref: DRN4539649