K820x#14complaint 
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt help her to get her money back when she had 
problems with accommodation shed booked abroad. Shes also unhappy with Lloyds Bank 
PLCs customer  service  and the way they handled  her complaint. 
background 
Miss B has an account with Lloyds Bank with a debit card. 
Miss B used her Lloyds Bank  debit  card to pay for accommodation abroad.  She was 
unhappy with the accommodation.  She complained to the accommodation provider and said 
that she was offered  a refund. She didnt  receive  the refund, so she phoned Lloyds Bank  and 
asked them to help her to get her money back. Lloyds Bank  agreed  to help Miss B. They 
asked her to send the messages she said shed  received from the accommodation provider 
agreeing to refund her. 
Miss B sent the messages to Lloyds Bank. After receiving the messages  Lloyds  Bank told 
Miss B that theyd need  a voided receipt to help her to get her money back. Miss B was 
unhappy about this. She complained that shed not been asked during that first call to Lloyds 
Bank to provide  a voided receipt. Lloyds Bank agreed to investigate the matter and get back 
to Miss B. Having listened to the call Lloyds  Bank  told Miss B that the messages shed sent 
them werent acceptable as they were WhatsApp messages and didnt  show  that shed been 
offered a refund. 
Miss B complained that Lloyds Bank  hadnt investigated what it said it would  namely 
whether shed been asked in that first call to provide a voided receipt  and was also 
unhappy with the way her complaint was handled. 
Lloyds bank investigated Miss Bs complaint about how it had handled her request  for a 
refund and said that theyd done  nothing wrong.  Lloyds Bank said that if Miss B was 
unhappy with the way her complaint was handled then she should  complain  to us. Miss B 
was unhappy  with Lloyds Banks response  and ultimately brought a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Bs complaint but didnt uphold  it. Miss B wasnt  
happy with our investigators response  and asked  for a decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss B had problems with accommodation abroad. Shed  paid for the accommodation using 
her Lloyds Bank debit  card and wanted  the money  refunded. She said that she complained  
to the accommodation provider and had been offered a refund which she didnt receive. I 
therefore understand why she contacted Lloyds Bank. Lloyds Bank could raise a 
chargeback which if successful, would have got Miss B her money back
Ref: DRN48877102Chargeback is a process whereby a bank will assist  a customer  when theres a dispute 
between the customer  and the merchant  (the accommodation  provider).  The bank asks the 
customer for evidence to back up the claim and if they think  a chargeback  could be 
successful the bank will submit a claim to the card scheme. Banks dont have to raise a 
chargeback if its clear it would fail. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I dont think that a chargeback had a reasonable prospect 
of success. Nor do I think Lloyds Bank  handled  Miss Bs complaint poorly.  Ill explain  why. 
Ive listened to the calls between Miss B and Lloyds Bank including that first call when 
Miss B asked Lloyds  Bank to help her get her money back. In this call Miss B told Lloyds 
Bank that she had messages offering her a refund. The member  of Lloyds Bank staff as 
Miss B rightly  points  out didnt ask Miss B if she had a voided receipt or to obtain  one. If they 
had then Miss B might have realised that the messages  she had werent going  to be good 
enough evidence  to support a chargeback. But I dont agree that the member of staff should 
have checked  this given that Miss B had said that she had messages offering her a refund. It 
was reasonable  for the member of staff to believe, based on what Miss B had said, that the 
messages agreeing to a refund would have been  enough for a successful chargeback  to be 
raised. Unfortunately, the messages, as Lloyds Bank later discovered,  didnt show that 
Miss B had been  offered  a refund. So I dont think Lloyds Bank did anything wrong here. 
Miss B complained when she was told that Lloyds Bank would need a voided receipt to raise 
a chargeback. She spoke to several  people in Lloyds Bank about her complaint and wasnt  
happy with the way they handled  her complaint either. In particular, she wasnt  happy that 
the people who were handling her complaint were all part of the same  team  and likely to 
know each other. She was also given conflicting information when she asked  for Lloyds 
Banks process for dealing with complaints. I agree with Miss B here. This wasnt handled as 
well as it could have  been. But its also clear that Lloyds  Bank  had exhausted their 
complaints process,  and that it then quite  rightly told Miss B that she ought  to complain to 
our service.  So, I dont agree that I should be asking Lloyds  Bank to do more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint and I dont require Lloyds  
Bank PLC to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4887710