K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Advantage Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  Advantage Finance to pay 
for the required repairs.
Background
Mr T obtained a second hand car in April 2018, financed through a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage  Finance.
Within a few weeks  he complained to the supplying garage about the following  faults:
 The aerial appeared  to be glued  on.
 The rear number  plate light had failed.
 A leak in the air conditioning pipe.
 A fault with the engine control unit that controls the windows and mirrors.
Mr T says he fixed the problem with the windows and mirrors and that the supplying  garage 
carried out other repairs, at no cost to him, which fixed the problems.
But around nine weeks after the car was supplied, Mr T noticed an oil leak.  He took the car 
to a third party garage. It concluded there was a possible leak,  but that a full inspection with 
the gearbox removed  would  be necessary. The garage also reported that there  was 
excessive wear to the front and rear brake  pads.  It recommended these were  replaced, 
together with new brake discs. It also noted that there was a fault with the near side rear 
door latch.
Mr T complained to Advantage Finance and it arrange for an independent report. This 
concluded that the car would have  been  of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied and, on 
this basis, Advantage  Finance said Mr T was responsible for any repairs.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld concluding that 
Advantage Finance had acted reasonably and that the faults were due to fair wear  and tear.
Mr T disagreed saying, in summary, that:
The oil leak was present when  the car was supplied because the salesperson told Mr T 
theyd not charged him to top up the oil.
The MOT carried out just before the car was supplied to him should have picked up that 
the brake pads were worn.  When the car was retuned to the supplying  garage to repair 
the air conditioning pipe, the garage said the brakes were  squeaking because the brake 
pads were new.
The problems with the car would have  been  identified if the supplying garage had 
carried out a proper  test drive.
The independent  inspection  was carried out late in the day by torch light, with no test 
drive or inspection of the brakes and took about 10 minutes. The report  concludes that 
the car would  have  been  in a similar condition at the point of sale,  which shows  the 
faults were present when  the car was supplied.
Ref: DRN44523952The car is used  as a family car. So the investigators finding that a commercial  vehicle  
would have heavier use and require  more frequent  maintenance is irrelevant.
The business hasnt  supplied recordings  of his phone calls where the brakes  and oil 
leak were discussed.
After our investigator had communicated his view of the complaint, Advantage Finance told 
us that Mr T voluntarily terminated  his agreement and handed back  the car in July 2019.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Advantage  Finance  is the supplier of goods  
under this agreement  and is responsible  for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
Mr T said he wanted Advantage  Finance  to pay for the required repairs.  I understand from 
Advantage Finance that Mr T has now handed back the car and the agreement has been 
terminated. But this doesnt mean I shouldnt make a decision on this complaint. If I find that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, then I could still order  
Advantage Finance to pay compensation to Mr T, even  though  hes no longer in possession 
of the car and the finance agreement has ended.
The car was around  seven years old when it was supplied in April 2017  and its mileage was 
around 85,000  miles. Whilst its normal to expect some repairs due to wear and tear, 
particularly in a second hand car, Mr T reported some faults  the aerial, the number plate  
light, the air conditioning pipe and the ECU controlling the mirrors and windows - within a few 
of weeks of obtaining the car. This would suggest  to me that these  faults were  present when  
the car was supplied.  But Mr T says he was able to fix the issue with the mirrors  and 
windows himself. And the other faults were all successfully repaired  by the supplying garage 
at no cost to Mr T.
Ref: DRN44523953Around three months after hed obtained the car, Mr T complained to Black  Horse that there  
was an oil leak. A third party garage had inspected the car and said:
Various oil leaks on engine, requires  cleaning and inspecting
Sump gasket leaking, guess has been  off previously by state of sealant
Have removed and cleaned surfaces  for sump, resealed appears  ok now
Possible leak from rear main oil seal
Require gearbox removal to inspect
Black Horse  arranged for an independent  inspection. I appreciate  this inspection was not as 
detailed as Mr T would  have liked. But I think the independent engineer did enough to 
enable him to assess the condition of the car. The report concluded that the car shows  no 
significant issues which could reasonably  determine the vehicle as being of unsatisfactory  
quality and not fit for purpose at the point of sale.
This report was completed  by an independent expert and its right that I place reliance on its 
findings. The report concludes  that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
There does seem to have been evidence of an oil leak a few weeks before,  but its likely that 
the third party  garages action of cleaning the engine  and resealing the sump fixed the 
problem. 
Turning to the brakes, the independent report says, Assessment of the brake  components 
visible through the wheel rims showed  no abnormal brake disc wear,  corrosion or scoring ... 
But the third party garage,  just a few weeks before,  had identified  excessive wear to the 
front and rear brake pads and that these urgently needed replacing. Mr T had driven the car 
around 5,000 miles since hed obtained  it and brake pads are something  that, in a second 
hand car, you would  reasonably expect to need to replace  from time to time due to normal 
wear and tear. The car had passed  an MOT  just before the car was supplied, with no 
mention of any issues with the brake  pads.  So, whilst the car was supplied  with limited life 
left on the existing brake pads, I dont think this made it unsatisfactory or unfit for purpose.
Mr T says that the supplying garage told him the brakes were squeaking because  the car 
had new brake pads. Its not clear why he was told this as it seems highly unlikely to me that 
new brake pads were fitted when the car was supplied because around nine weeks  later the 
pads were excessively  worn. Its seems that the member  of staff at the garage  made  a 
mistake. But this doesnt make a difference to my overall conclusion.
Mr T would have liked us to hear the recordings of his phone calls with the supplying  garage.  
But I dont find this was necessary. Its clear to me that he reported the problems with the 
brakes and the oil leak, but its clear from the independent  report  that these were most likely 
not present when  the car was supplied and are wear and tear issues. What was discussed 
with the supplying garage wont  change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN44523954My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4452395