K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
online in 2004.  Miss A says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Egg had to make Miss A aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Miss A applied for her PPI policy  through an online application at the 
same time as she applied  for a credit  card. Egg hasnt been able to show us Miss As 
completed online application, so Ive considered what we know more widely about how it 
sold PPI online around this time.
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Miss A saw at the time of sale, and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So I think its likely Egg gave Miss A the 
option to either accept  or decline the cover before continuing with her credit card application.
Egg has also given  us a copy of the data that was captured  from Miss As application, I can 
see that the yes box has been selected  to confirm she wanted the PPI. So I think  Egg made 
it clear that the PPI was optional and that Miss A chose to take the policy. Considering  how 
long ago the sale took place I think its understandable she cant  remember doing so now.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Miss A got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Egg gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss A has told us she was entitled to sick pay when she took the policy  and had 
some savings. She could  also rely on her parents to help make her repayments.  But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Miss As sick pay and for longer. The PPI would also have  
protected Miss As savings so they could be used  towards any other expenses she had. And 
while Miss As parents would have wanted  to help, their ability to do so would have been 
dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss As circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN44173462Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4417346