K820x#14complaint
Miss I complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) refused her claim 
brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75). She says the 
course she purchased  from a company  that I will call N, by way of a fixed  sum loan 
agreement, hasnt been provided.
background
In August  2018  Miss I took out a fixed sum loan agreement for £1,215  with Omni for the 
supply of a course.  Under the terms of this agreement Miss I undertook  to make one monthly 
payment of £31.22 followed by 59 monthly  payments of £31.04.
Miss I submitted a claim to Omni  under section  75 on the grounds  that the course, at least to 
her satisfaction, hadnt been provided,  constituting a breach of contract. 
However Miss Is claim was rejected by Omni on the grounds that section 75 doesnt apply, 
there being no valid debtor-creditor-supplier  (d-c-s)  relationship.
Unhappy with Omnis decision to decline her section  75 claim she referred  the matter to our 
service.
Miss Is complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that, in her 
view, there  was indeed  no valid d-c-s relationship so Omni hadnt done  anything wrong in 
declining her section  75 claim.
Miss I didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know it will disappoint Miss I, but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Its not for me to decide the outcome of a section 75 claim. Instead, I need to decide if I think  
Omni treated Miss I fairly and reasonably, taking into account its obligations under the 
relevant law, which includes section 75.
Ref: DRN41322782The general effect of section  75 is that if Miss I has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against a supplier of goods or services  she can also bring that claim against 
Omni  provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions  is that there  must be a 
valid d-c-s relationship.
In this case, Miss I is the debtor because shes used credit provided by Omni to purchase  a 
driving course, the creditor  is Omni  because its provided credit  to Miss I and the supplier  is 
N. But I consider that the course wasnt supplied  to Miss I, but to her partner.
In concluding  that the course  was supplied to Miss Is partner Ive had regard, amongst other 
things, to what Miss I herself  has said in her submissions to our service, how various 
communications from N were addressed and given that none of the course appears to have  
been undertaken by Miss I.
Because Ive concluded that the course wasnt supplied to Miss I, Im satisfied that there is 
no valid d-c-s relationship  and that Omni treated Miss I fairly  and reasonably in declining her 
claim under section 75.
I appreciate this is a technical area of the law, and that Miss I is likely to be frustrated by this 
outcome. However  Miss I doesnt have  to accept this decision and may pursue  this matter by 
alternative means should she wish to do so, including in court.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4132278