K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 8 January 2020. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold  it were set out in 
that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider. 
Neither Mr G or Alexander David Securities Limited provided any further submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr G as set 
out in my attached provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN44303722Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr G has complained about  the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an Appointed 
Representative of Alexander David Securities  Limited)  to transfer  his pension to a self-invested  
personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
Mr G, through  his representative, complained  to Alexander David  in August 2018.   I understand  
Alexander David didnt provide a response to the complaint. The representative  subsequently referred 
it to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint.  He asked  Alexander David for its files and to 
provide any evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, he received no response.  
The investigator therefore  assessed  the complaint on the evidence that had been presented.
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He said it was his 
understanding that St Pauls Marketing had sent Mr G promotional material  relating to debentures 
issued by Just Loans. He said he thought St Pauls Marketing sent, or arranged to be sent, a summary 
report to Mr G, detailing the historic performance of his existing plans and discussed it with him.
Mr G had an existing personal pension  which  had a value of about  £32,000. Following the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing he transferred the benefits to a SIPP and opened a discretionary 
fund management account in February 2016.  The investigator  understood that most of the value 
transferred was invested  in Just Loans debentures.
Mr G signed  a document drawn  up by the SIPP  provider  indemnifying it against any liability arising  
from the investment. Among  other things,  the indemnity  said that Mr G had read the information 
prospectus provided by Just Loans, and was fully aware that the investment was high risk or 
speculative, and illiquid. He also acknowledged that he had chosen not to seek  advice.
The investigator said that whilst he recognised  that Mr G had signed  the SIPP providers  indemnity he 
thought it unlikely this was a genuine execution only transaction, given the nature of St Pauls 
Marketings involvement and Mr Gs apparent lack of experience. He thought  St Pauls Marketing had 
recommended the investment, in other words  that it had advised Mr G on the merits of making  it. He 
noted Mr G was in his mid-40s, wasnt a sophisticated investor and the investment resulted  in almost 
his entire pension  been  in illiquid bonds from a single issuer. He thought the advice was clearly 
unsuitable and that any reasonably competent adviser  would have recognised that. 
The investigator said he thought  the investments  had limited  liquidity and were listed on a smaller  
unregulated market. The investigator  said if St Pauls Marketing hadnt made a recommendation it was 
still obliged to assess the appropriateness  of the investment in accordance with COBS  10 (Conduct of 
Business Rules). And it also had an overriding obligation to act in Mr Gs best interests in accordance 
with the Regulators Principles.
The investigator thought that if St Pauls Marketing had carried out an appropriateness assessment it 
wouldve identified that Mr G appeared to have no significant  investment knowledge or experience  of 
making investments of this nature. The investigator didnt  think  the investment was appropriate.
He also said that whatever the precise nature of St Pauls Marketings  interactions with Mr G, they 
directly resulted in an inexperienced investor investing almost all his pension in illiquid,  high risk 
bonds. The investigator  thought St Pauls Marketing had failed to act in accordance with the 
Regulators Principles or in Mr Gs best interests.
Ref: DRN44303723The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt provide a 
response. The investigator wrote to both parties on 10 April 2020 explaining that the complaint would  
be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make a final decision.  No further evidence or 
arguments were provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr Gs original complaint or to the investigators requests for 
information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to the investigators 
assessment. So theres only very limited evidence  available to establish  what  happened at the time of 
the transfer and investment.  
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Gs recollections of events.  
Alexander David/St Pauls Marketing hasnt disputed  what  Mr G said in his complaint to it, or what  the 
investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts. The investigator has gone back to Mr Gs 
representatives for further information after issuing his initial assessment. The representative  has said 
that Mr G has said he was cold-called by St Pauls Marketing and offered a pension review. And that 
following the review he was advised to transfer his existing pension  into a SIPP and invest  in the Just 
Loans debentures for a higher return on his money. It said Mr G had confirmed he was inexperienced 
and unsophisticated  with investments and the high-risk  nature of the investment wasnt explained to 
him. 
What Mr G has said about St Pauls Marketings  role in the matter is consistent with what  other 
complainants have described. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking everything into 
account, I have found it credible. 
Mr Gs representatives  complaint letter to the firm said, amongst other things:
We are instructed that your company  advised  as to the suitability of the pension transfer and also 
recommended our client invest in a non-standard asset,  which was high risk and unregulated. As a 
result of your companys  advice our client has sustained a loss.
Mr G has alleged  that St Pauls Marketing were  involved  from the outset. Mr G subsequently 
transferred his pensions to the SIPP  and invested in the debentures.  In my experience its unusual  for 
someone of Mr Gs background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension  in order to 
invest in this type of investment without prompting. 
On the one hand, only very limited evidence  has been provided to support Mr Gs complaint.  
However, on the other hand, Alexander David hasnt provided any evidence  or responded either  to 
the complaint that was made to it or the investigators  assessment. 
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence  that is available, that St Pauls Marketing initiated the 
investment in the debenture. It was aware of where  the investment was going to be made through  the 
DFM and facilitated it. Mr G has said St Pauls Marketing  advised  him to transfer his pension  and 
invest in the debentures, the investigator said he thought it likely  St Pauls Marketing  had 
recommended the investment and it wasnt  suitable for him. And the firm hasnt disputed  this. In all 
the circumstances and on the balance of the evidence available, I think its more likely than not that 
advice was given.
Ref: DRN44303724St Pauls  Marketing was the promoter  for the debenture,  but Im satisfied, on the limited evidence  
available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment (as well 
as recommending it). 
These debentures were a non-readily  realisable  security. The promotional material I have seen 
referred to the debentures as illiquid; said that there might be no market  for them even after listing, 
and said that investors might  need to hold them to redemption.  COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing 
to assess  Mr Gs knowledge and experience  in the investment field relevant  to the specific type of 
product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess  whether the service  or 
product envisaged is appropriate.
Mr G has said he had no significant  investment  knowledge and no experience  of making investments  
of this nature. The debentures  were  high risk and speculative and clearly not appropriate for Mr G 
given his background, knowledge and circumstances.
In my view switching  a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number  of different factors 
to weigh  up and consider.  Mr G was an ordinary  retail investor. He doesnt appear to have had any 
particular experience  or knowledge of this type of transaction or the complex and higher  risk 
investments he was invested into. I think Mr G was entitled to rely on the firm providing  advice that 
was suitable to his circumstances.  It was acting in its professional capacity and was obliged to take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice and to act in Mr Gs interests. 
Taking everything into account, I dont  think  the debentures  were  appropriate or suitable for Mr G. Im 
satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr G to transfer and invest  in the debentures or if it 
had told him it wasnt appropriate or suitable  for him, he wouldnt  have transferred  and invested in 
them.  Accordingly,  Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings  failures caused Mr G to transfer and invest  
in a product  that he would otherwise not have  invested  into. And Im satisfied its failures caused  the 
losses that Mr G has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation  to Mr G on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to
the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given suitable  advice. Mr Gs representatives  
have said Mr G should  be placed  in the position he would have been had he not transferred his 
pension. However I think Mr Gs existing fund presented too great a risk for his circumstances. So 
although I dont think he would  have  transferred  if hed been given suitable advice, I think  he would  
have switched  to a more appropriate fund with his existing pension provider. Its not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Gs circumstances  when he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr G fairly Alexander David  should  compare the performance of Mr Gs investment 
with that of the benchmark shown below.  If the fair value is greater than the actual value , there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value,  no compensation 
is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a loss, 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase its value by the 
Ref: DRN44303725amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and 
any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities  Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation  into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Gs pension plan,  it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Mr Gs actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
I think  Mr G is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, so the reduction 
should equal  the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Mr G would have been able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mr Gs 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr G £250 for the distress and inconvenience  Im satisfied the matter has caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr G how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
Ref: DRN44303726If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the debentures its value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr G provides an undertaking  to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the debentures in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  or receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David 
Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income  or other  distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted  from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr G hasnt  got the opportunity to close the SIPP or 
switch to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David Securities  Ltd 
cant buy the investment and it remains  illiquid, it should pay Mr G an amount equal  to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition  to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
For the reasons  outlined above, I think if Mr G had been given suitable advice  he would have 
remained with his existing  scheme,  but switched  to a fund more appropriate for his circumstances at 
the time.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4430372