K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) would not let them port 
their mortgage to a property they already owned.
background
Mr and Mrs S had an existing mortgage with Halifax.  They  were  originally going to sell the 
mortgaged property and buy a new one. Halifax said that they would be able to port their 
mortgage to the new property and provided them with a key facts illustration. Their plans 
changed and they decided to move into their current buy to let property and port their Halifax  
mortgage to this property instead. Halifax told them that they would not be able to do this. 
And Mr and Mrs S complain that as a result  they will have to pay an early  repayment charge 
and a higher interest rate on a new mortgage.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Halifaxs policy is clear and it will not allow the porting of a mortgage to a property 
that is already  owned.
-The existing mortgage related  to one specific property and any change was for 
Halifax to assess.
-Its published literature  cannot be expected to cover all eventualities.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree. The clause about  porting  was not in the literature. Halifax  had 
agreed to them porting  their mortgage in principle. So they expected this to apply to their 
other property too and believe  it has not treated them fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Halifax has applied its standard policy to its decision about  their mortgage. 
It does not have to agree  to port a mortgage  as it is not a contractual  term. And any decision 
about porting  is reasonably subject to Halifaxs own assessment and criteria at the time of 
application. It was entitled to decide to allow them to port their mortgage to a new property - 
but not to one they already owned. I dont  agree  that this is unfair or that it had given any 
commitment to allow them to port to an existing property. When they asked  about  doing this 
they were given the correct information.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S are liable to pay an early  repayment charge. But Im afraid 
that charge was a term of the mortgage that they agreed to.
Ref: DRN45655662my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4565566