K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that BUPA  Insurance Limited  wont meet  the cost of a consultation with 
his podiatrist after he made a claim under his employers group private medical  insurance  
policy.
background
Mr P suffered  a traumatic injury to his ankle.  His orthopaedic  surgeon referred him to a 
podiatrist. Mr P had a consultation with the podiatrist who fitted  him with insoles. Mr P made  
a claim under his policy for the podiatrists  costs.  BUPA declined  the claim on the grounds 
that the policy excluded cover  for physical aids or devices. It said the insoles fell under this 
heading.
Mr P accepted that the cost of the insoles was excluded but said that BUPA should 
nonetheless cover the cost of the consultation.
BUPA wouldnt agree  to this. It said that if a consultation was related to a certain treatment, it 
was assessed  from the same benefit which applied to that treatment. It was satisfied that the 
consultation was purely in relation  to the insoles and so was also excluded  from cover.
Mr P disputed that the consultation was purely  in relation to the insoles. He referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  the 
evidence suggested  the consultation  was purely in relation to the insoles. She was satisfied 
that BUPA had acted fairly.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He said a letter from his podiatrist had 
confirmed that the consultation hadnt  related to insoles and that these were  only fitted at a 
later date. He felt that BUPA  had relied on its own guidelines and interpretations,  rather than 
the actual policy wording,  to decline his claim.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover is excluded for physical aids and devices which  it defines as:
Any physical aid or device which is not a prosthetic implant, prosthetic device, or defined  as 
an appliance. Examples:  we will not pay for hearing aids, spectacles, contact lenses, 
crutches or walking sticks.
Im satisfied that insoles  fall under  the policys definition of a physical aid or device. This 
means that cover for them is excluded.
Ref: DRN42631052Mr P was under the care of an orthopaedic surgeon  after suffering an injury to his ankle.  
After carrying out an x-ray, the surgeon referred Mr P to the podiatrist. The referral  note 
states:
Thank you for seeing [Mr P] who has had persistent  medial ankle pain due to a sports 
injury. MRI shows  deltoid tear. He limps during and after soccer. He will benefit from 
insoles.
Im satisfied that this shows  the purpose  of the referral was to enable  Mr P to receive 
insoles.
Although the policy doesnt explicitly state  that cover excludes  not only the cost of a physical 
aid itself but also the related costs of fitting  that aid, I think this is a reasonable approach  for 
BUPA to take.  This means that BUPA is not liable for the cost of a consultation with the 
podiatrist related to the fitting of the insoles.
Mr P disputes that the consultation  was related  to the fitting of the insoles. He has provided  a 
letter from the podiatrist.  In this, the podiatrist explains that at the consultation she examined 
Mr P, diagnosed he was suffering from bilateral pes planus, referred  him to an osteopath for 
further assessment  and treatment, and advised  on icing and strengthening exercises. The 
podiatrist also says that following the consultation  she manufactured him custom-made 
orthotics which were fitted at an appointment two weeks later.
I accept that the podiatrist may have covered matters beyond simply the insoles during the 
consultation. However, I cant ignore the orthopaedic surgeons referral letter. This stated 
clearly that Mr P was being referred for insoles. The surgeon didnt say that Mr P may 
benefit from insoles,  or ask the podiatrist for a general assessment of his condition.  He said 
specifically that Mr P will benefit  from them. And therefore I have to reasonably conclude 
that this was the main purpose of the consultation,  though naturally the insoles had to be 
manufactured afterwards  and fitted  at a later date.
In view of this, I consider  it was reasonable for BUPA  to decline the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263105