K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the level of charges HSBC UK Bank Plc applied  to his unarranged 
overdraft at a time when  he was having financial difficulties.
background
Mr A wants  HSBC  to refund the charges it applied after his account  went into an unarranged 
overdraft. He says the bank authorised  a transaction in July 2018  and then applied  daily 
charges which  caused  him to suffer serious  financial consequences.  He says the bank has 
refunded charges before,  accepting the blame  for similar situations. 
HSBC says there was no bank error.  The charges were applied  correctly. And it has 
contacted Mr A several times over the last six years   by letter  and text - advising him of 
payments made that resulted in unarranged overdrafts, and the consequences of this. It 
says it also advised  Mr A that he should  call for help, or contact the financial  guidance  team 
if he was having  financial difficulties. Previous charges were refunded as a gesture of 
goodwill. In October 2018  when  Mr A raised this complaint he also contacted the financial 
guidance team and a payment plan was agreed.   
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He said the bank 
had applied  the charges  in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Previous 
charges were refunded despite  no bank  errors.  He highlighted the term of the account that 
sets out how an unarranged overdraft  facility works. He felt the bank had offered appropriate 
support, and agreed to a repayment plan once Mr A contacted  its financial guidance team.
Mr A disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons.
The unarranged overdraft facility was put in place on Mr As account in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  And the charges were  also applied in line with the terms and 
conditions, and based on how Mr A was managing his account. I disagree that earlier  
refunds the bank  made were  an acceptance of blame. It made clear the refunds were 
gestures of goodwill.
The banks records show Mr A first notified  the bank of his financial difficulties in October 
2017 and at that point  HSBC advised he should  contact its financial guidance team. But Ive 
seen no record that he did so until October  2018.  At this stage the bank worked  with him to 
agree a repayment plan for the unarranged overdraft  and associated  charges. Its obligation 
is to respond to customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically  not to 
automatically refund charges, fees or interest  and I think  it did this. 
It follows I can find no grounds  to order HSBC to refund the charges as Mr A has requested.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN42592482Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4259248