K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited (trading as Cashplus)  wont 
refund transactions made on his card that he says he didnt  authorise.
background
In September  2018, a series of payments were carried out using Mr Ts card making 
payments to a gambling website. Mr T says that he didnt make or otherwise authorise  these 
payments. Cashplus said it wasnt willing to refund these transactions because  they were 
similar to other legitimate transactions on the account that Mr T says he did make. Mr T was 
unhappy with the response he received from Cashplus  and so he referred  his complaint to 
this service.
It was looked  at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. She agreed with Cashplus that the 
pattern of spending  was consistent with Mr Ts previous spending on gambling transactions.
She also said that the account with the gambling website was set up using Mr Ts details 
(such as his mobile  phone number and email address), which suggested that it was him who 
had set up the account. She also found out that the gambling website would  send a 
notification email in connection with each  bet placed. 
This meant that 84 notification emails wouldve been sent to Mr Ts email account in total.  
The investigator thought it was unlikely  that, even if someone else had access to his email  
inbox, Mr T wouldnt have  noticed  at least one of these  notification emails being  sent to him.
Overall, the investigator  thought it was more  likely  than not that Mr T authorised  the 
transactions and so thought Cashplus was reasonable in holding  Mr T liable for them. Mr T 
disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the case has been  referred  to me to issue a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic  position  is that Cashplus can hold Mr T liable for the disputed transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he made or authorised them.  Ive carefully 
considered the evidence  provided by both sides  and Im persuaded that Cashplush  is 
reasonable in holding  Mr T liable for them.
I say that because:
Cashplus  has provided evidence from the gambling company that shows  that the 
account was set up in his name  and used  his mobile phone number and email address 
as points of contact.
The gambling company has also said that email notifications are sent to the registered  
email address on the account every time a payment  is made. Mr T says that he did have 
access to his email account  at the time and it seems unlikely that he wouldnt  have  
noticed any of these notification emails. 
Ref: DRN46791412Mr T has placed bets online before with this company, so these transactions arent 
unusual or out of character. Its also unlikely that a potential  fraudster wouldve placed  
bets in Mr Ts name. They  wouldnt obtain  any direct financial benefit from doing  so 
because any winnings would be paid back to Mr Ts account. 
Overall, I find it reasonable for Cashplus to hold Mr T liable for these payments because the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he authorised them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4679141