K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy about the way American  Express Services Europe Limited has dealt with 
him.
background
Mr R says hes a signatory on an account with another bank in which he can deposit and 
from which withdraw money. He says he regularly uses  this other account to pay off his 
American Express monthly credit card bills. Hes unhappy that in January 2018 American 
Express demanded payment from him of over £4,405 as it said the other  bank had recalled 
the usual payments made from this other account.  He says American Express  has caused 
him undue pressure and stress. And he cannot pay American Express twice. 
American Express said in its final response that itd received an indemnity request from the 
other bank  to return the direct debit payments made from the other bank into Mr Rs account 
between October 2016 and November 2017.  Under the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee  
its obliged to immediately  return payments  when  asked to do so by another bank when it 
says a mistake has been made. American  Express  has correctly  refunded  the payments 
requested by the other bank and it cannot  reclaim them. Mr R therefore owes  the 
outstanding amount of £4,423 under  the terms of his account.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said any complaint about  the 
reclaim of these payments needs  to be made  by the other banks account holder to the other 
bank. American Express was obliged under the Direct Debit  Guarantee scheme to repay the 
money to the other bank. And also to apply these  amounts onto his American Express card 
account. 
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says he didnt 
agree the payments into his account from a third party could be voided. And he shouldnt  
have to pay American Express twice. It shouldve told him what  was going  on so he could 
resolve matters. He thinks the other  bank has acted  unlawfully.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
The terms and conditions  of the Direct Debit Guarantee say that American Express is 
obliged to immediately  return payments  made to a bank  that paid them if that bank thinks 
something has gone wrong  and asks for them back.  
Thats what  happened here. The other  bank  asked American Express to repay  the payments 
itd made  into Mr Rs card account between  October 2016 and November 2017. And I dont 
think American Express has done  anything wrong  by responding to that indemnity request 
by repaying some £4,405 to the other  bank.
Mr Rs American  Express accounts terms and conditions say that it may reverse  any 
payment made into the account  if its returned  or dishonoured for any reason. And that he is 
responsible for payment  of whats  owed on the account. 
Ref: DRN41359832So, when the payments  received from the other  bank were recalled Mr Rs account  was 
debited those amounts  and he became liable for the outstanding balance. And American 
Express is entitled to seek payment of this outstanding balance from him.
Mr Rs clearly unhappy that the other  bank recalled  these  payments. But thats not 
something I can consider  in this complaint. It will be up to Mr R to get the account  holder  to 
take up his concerns with the other bank.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Rs frustration, I dont think American Express has done 
anything wrong  and I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to do anything differently. And I dont 
see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135983