K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the service he received from Adrian Flux Insurance Services 
Group (Adrian Flux) in relation to arranging a motor insurance policy.  
background
In August  2018,  Mr D used a price comparison site to find some  van insurance. He chose 
the insurance provided through  a broker, Adrian Flux, and paid what he was quoted  for the 
full years cover. When Adrian Flux went to put the policy in place and checked the national 
databases, they found some of the details werent correct  Mr D had mistyped his vehicle 
details, and hed omitted a previous  insurance claim.  Adrian Flux also found that both of Mr 
Ds previous insurance  claims  were  showing as outstanding on the claims database. 
Because of the changes that needed  to be made, Adrian Flux phoned Mr D and told him that 
hed need to pay an additional  amount for his policy. Mr D was very unhappy  with this and so 
the policy was cancelled. Over the next two days, Mr D made numerous calls to Adrian Flux. 
During the course of these calls he became increasingly upset about  what had happened. 
Mr Ds complaining that Adrian Flux wasted his time. He said he wasnt  at fault for the 
previous claim and his previous insurer called Adrian Flux to confirm  that was the case. Hes 
unhappy that spent two days  of his time on the phone to Adrian Flux to try to sort things out. 
He said hes self-employed and couldnt work on those  two days  so lost £400 of income as a 
result. Mr D added that he felt Adrian Flux had been  trying to manipulate the facts  of his 
previous accident  to increase his premium. And he said theyd threatened him with a 
cancellation marker which would increase his future insurance premiums.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint. He said that we couldnt investigate  Mr Ds 
complaint about  the increase in premium. Thats because the underwriter  (rather  than the 
broker) is responsible for setting the amount  of a premium, and in this case the underwriter 
was declared bankrupt in December 2018.  He explained that we cant  look at complaints 
against businesses  which are bankrupt because they have no assets  from which to pay 
compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint  points  Mr D had raised about the service hed 
received from Adrian Flux. He said he didnt think Adrian Flux had done anything  wrong,  
commenting that he thought Adrian Flux had been  fair in their treatment of Mr D even though 
the relationship  between  the business and the consumer had broken down.
Mr D wasnt happy with our investigators  view.  In his response,  Mr D reiterated that he felt 
Adrian Flux had wasted  his time and manipulated facts in order  to try to charge him more  for 
his insurance. And he reiterated that Adrian  Flux had threatened him and then refused to 
communicate with him. Because  Mr D remained unhappy, the complaints come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will be a 
disappointment to Mr D, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, the amount of any insurance premium  is not set by a broker, 
but by the underwriter. So Adrian Flux arent  responsible for the increase in Mr Ds premium 
when they corrected his details. In this case,  the underwriter was declared bankrupt  in 
December 2018  - so I cant look into Mr Ds complaint about the premium increase.
Ref: DRN46567922Ive considered Mr Ds complaint points which relate  to Adrian Fluxs actions, being:
Adrian Flux manipulated the facts  in relation to his previous accidents;
they wasted  his time and threatened him; and
they refused  to communicate with him.
Mr D was particularly upset that his accidents were being marked  as fault accidents when 
they werent his fault. Mr D arranged for his previous insurer  to explain the circumstances to 
Adrian Flux.  Adrian Flux told Mr D that theyd explain the circumstances to the underwriter 
and ask if the underwriter  would  consider reducing the premium. I dont think theres  
anything else Adrian  Flux could have done in the circumstances and so Im satisfied theyve 
treated Mr D fairly in this respect.
Its clear Mr D spent  a long time on the phone to Adrian Flux and grew  increasingly 
frustrated. But Mr D made most  of the phone calls. And I dont think  Mr Ds frustration  was 
justified. Adrian Flux made it clear to Mr D that they were investigating his complaint, and 
that they were  refunding his premiums.  They told Mr D he needed to give them time to finish 
their investigations. And they told him hed see the refund  of his premiums  in his bank 
account within a couple of days.  So I think Mr D could have avoided the wasted time and the 
frustration if hed waited  a couple  of days.  And I havent seen or heard  any evidence of 
Adrian Flux threatening Mr D.
Mr Ds also complained that Adrian Flux stopped communicating  with him. I can see Adrian 
Flux told Mr D theyd  made a commercial  decision not to do business  with him. Having 
listened to the calls between Adrian Flux and Mr D, Im satisfied that was a reasonable 
decision  any relationship between the consumer and the business had completely broken  
down.
Taking everything together, Im satisfied Adrian Flux treated Mr D fairly.
my final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Adrian Flux. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before  22 January  2021.
Clare King
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4656792