K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about advice to switch his existing pension benefits  into a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP).  He thinks the advice was unsuitable  because  it did not take into 
account the proposed investment which involved more  risk than he was prepared  to take. 
Mr B says the pension  switch advice was given by an appointed representative of 
Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 2 May 2019.   I summarised  the factual 
background including accounts  of events given by Mr B in a form he competed  for his 
lawyers and in questionnaire  he completed  for the ombudsman service.  
Mr B had said that he dealt with an adviser called Mr B2 from Gwent and Forest Mortgage 
Centre which was an appointed  representative of Intrinsic.  Mr B also said 
Mr B2 explained the investment using  a CD from a firm called Marcus James  and that 
Marcus James had advised him to encash  his pension.    
Mr B had signed a letter  of authority  allowing the adviser to get information about his existing 
pensions which said his adviser was a different firm called Ideal Financial Planning  which 
was also an appointed representative  of Intrinsic.   The adviser also gave the name  of that 
firm on the SIPP application form.
Mr B had also signed a declaration for the SIPP provider that said he had been  offered the 
opportunity to seek advice  and had chosen  not to.
And there was a further form Mr B had signed which had mentioned another  adviser firm, 
called 1 Stop, advising on the SIPP.
Intrinsic said there was no evidence that advice was given on its behalf.   It did not think  it 
had any liability in this matter.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought we can consider Mr Bs complaint, why 
it should be upheld  and how things should be put right.  I attach  an anonymised version  of 
the findings section of my provisional  decision as an annex.
Mr B agrees  with my provisional  decision.   Intrinsic doesnt, but has nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  we have 
jurisdiction to consider  the complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional decision  its 
my finding  that we can consider the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision its my finding  that the complaint should be upheld and that fair compensation 
should be paid as set out in the provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN47697632The compensation should be paid by Intrinsic within 28 days of it being informed of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my decision.  If its not paid within 28 days  Intrinsic  is to pay interest  on any 
part that has not been paid (including the payment  for trouble and upset) at the rate of 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of this decision until the date of payment.
my final decision
Its my decision that we can consider this complaint, the complaint is upheld and Intrinsic 
Financial Planning Ltd is to pay compensation as set out in my provisional decision and 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47697633ANNEX
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
I have considered all the evidence and arguments, in order to decide  whether  this service  can 
consider Mr Bs complaint.  
some preliminary points 1: the basis for deciding  jurisdiction:
I must decide whether  we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint on the basis of our jurisdiction 
rules, including the relevant law they are based on or incorporate, based on the relevant facts of the 
complaint which I must  decide on the balance  of probability when in dispute.  
I cannot decide  the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances.  That is the basis on which the merits of complaint will be determined  if we have 
jurisdiction to consider it.
some preliminary points 2: authorised and exempt persons:
Section19 FSMA prohibits a person from carrying on a "regulated activity"  unless he is "an authorised 
person" or "an exempt person".
Intrinsic was an authorised person.  Gwent and Forest was not. At the time of the events in this 
complaint s.39(1) and (3) created an exemption  from s.19 for "appointed  representatives" in these 
terms: 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(2) A person  who is exempt as a result of subsection (1) is referred  to in this Act as an 
appointed representative.
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  
Intrinsic had such an agreement with both Gwent and Forest Mortgage Centre  and Ideal Financial  
Planning Limited.  I understand  those agreements were in the same form.  I  will refer to it as the s.39 
Agreement.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can deal with certain complaints against Intrinsic as a regulated 
firm/authorised person.   That may include complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representatives.  That  is why this complaint  is against Intrinsic  rather than Gwent and Forest 
Mortgage Centre and/or  Ideal Financial Planning  Limited .  
In 2011 the financial  services regulator in the UK was the Financial  Services Authority.  In 2013 it was 
replaced by the Financial  Conduct Authority.  For convenience I will just refer to the FCA,  or the 
regulator, throughout.
Ref: DRN47697634Intrinsics position:
Intrinsic has made a number of points in this complaint and other similar  complaints,  including the 
following:
Its appointed representatives did not give any advice on its behalf.
Gwent and Forest  Mortgage Centre was only authorised to advise on mortgages and related 
protection insurance.  The appointed  representative was not authorised by it to give 
investment advice. 
Under the s.39 agreement:
oAppointed representatives are not permitted  to advise  on unregulated collective 
investment schemes such as the fund Mr B invested in with his SIPP. 
oAppointed representatives could  only advise on approved investments and the 
Berkeley Burke SIPP and Sustain investments were  not on its approved list.
oAdvice to switch pensions had to be approved by Intrinsic before the advice was 
given to the client  and it was not approved  by Intrinsic in this case.
oAdvice to switch pensions could  only be given by an adviser who had passed 
Intrinsics internal exam  relating to pensions transfers and switches.  The adviser in 
this case  had not passed that exam  at the time of the advice.
So in short  Intrinsic says it did not, and does not, accept responsibility for the advice  about which Mr B 
complains and the ombudsman service does not have jurisdiction over the complaint.
what is the complaint? 
In order  to decide whether we can or cannot consider  a complaint it is necessary  first to decide  what  
the complaint is.
Mr B is represented  by solicitors.  They wrote to Ideal Financial  Planning on 29 April 2013.   That letter 
included:
We act for the above person who received  advice from your firm to transfer their pension  
fund into a SIPP and then into investments provided  by sustainable Growth Group (SGG).

Our client was advised  by you to transfer their pension savings into a SIPP.  Your adviser was 
fully aware that out client was considering investing in SGG  once the pension transfer to SIPP 
was complete. Indeed, the whole process was directed to that outcome
On 4 October 2013 the solicitors wrote  to the ombudsman service.   That letter  included:
Our complaint  relates  to advice provided  to our client by the regulated firm.  The firm 
provided regulated advice in relation to the transfer of a pension to a SIPP.  The only reason 
for the creation of the SIPP was to facilitate investment into unregulated products offered by 
the Sustainable Growth  Group  (SGG).
The client was introduced to the firm in full knowledge  that the sole purpose of the transfer 
was to invest  into SGG.
The FSA in their update of the 18th January 2013 (as set out in our complaint letter)  made  it 
very clear that they expected firm [sic] to consider the risk of the product  they were  
transferring to a SIPP to invest into
Ref: DRN47697635It is therefore  clear that the complaint does  not relate to the suitability of the investment fund alone.  
The complaint is about the suitability of the advice to transfer to a SIPP in order to invest  in the 
schemes.  
was advice given? 
if so, who by, and in what capacity?
Mr B is clear that he dealt  with Mr B2.  Those dealings  took place  at Mr Bs home.   Mr B said he 
contacted him because  he had seen something about SIPPs that interested him and because he had 
had previous dealings with Mr B2.  I understand Mr B had arranged  a mortgage with Forest and 
Gwent in 2007.  So it seems  likely the initial  contact from Mr B would have been to Mr B2 at Gwent 
and Forest.
Mr B has also said that he was not aware  of Ideal Financial Planning  until [one of his existing pension  
providers] told him that firm was his new adviser.
To pause there slightly, Ideal Financial Planning was only registered  as Mr Bs adviser at [that existing 
pension provider] because  he had signed a letter of authority authorising [it and the other existing 
pension provider] to send information to Ideal Financial Planning. Although this letter  was prepared by 
Mr B2 it was signed by Mr B.  Be that as it may,  it does seem to be Mr Bs position  that he was 
dealing with Mr B2 of Gwent and Forest.
Mr B2 was an appointed representative of Intrinsic trading using his business name Gwent and Forest 
Mortgage Centre. Mr B2 was not a registered individual at Ideal Financial  Planning. It looks like Mr B2 
may have been acting  for his business (Gwent and Forest) in cooperation with Ideal Financial 
Planning rather than on behalf  of it.  But I accept it is not entirely clear.  
I note that Intrinsic says Mr B2 made it clear he was only an introducer  and that he was not authorised 
to give pension  advice.
As a general  point it is normal for relatively  inexperienced  investors to seek  advice about their 
pensions.  Or put another way it is not usual for an inexperienced investor like 
Mr B to switch  existing pensions into a SIPP  without advice from a financial adviser.  It is also unlikely 
that an inexperienced investor would decide which SIPP provider to choose without advice  or decide  
on which investments to make in his SIPP without advice. And it is clear  that Mr B consulted Mr B2 
who he thought to be a financial adviser.  
And in this case I note that a SIPP from Berkeley  Burke and an investment with Sustain effectively 
came as a package  since the application was badged by both of those groups.
Next there is no evidence  that anyone else advised Mr B.  There is a reference to 1 Stop Financial 
Planning on one standard  form that Mr B signed but nothing else.  While there is evidence that Mr B2 
was involved in the obtaining  of information about  the existing pensions  and the application for the 
jointly badged  Sustain/Berkeley Burke SIPP.  
Similarly, there is no evidence that advice  was given by Marcus James.  The use of a promotional  
video prepared by it by Mr B2 does not amount to advice by Marcus James.
On balance I think it is more  likely than not that Mr B2 did advise Mr B to switch his pensions and 
invest in the schemes as Mr B alleges.  I am also satisfied that Mr B2 arranged those  deals.  For 
example it is clear he obtained details about Mr Bs existing pensions (albeit in Ideal Financial 
Plannings name) before  the application and he completed  the application form for the SIPP  with Mr 
B.
I also think  that Mr B2 was working for Gwent & Forest  in co-operation  with Ideal Financial  Planning.  
And I will proceed on that basis but I do not think that my conclusions would be different if Mr B2 was 
working for Ideal  Financial  Planning as it was also an appointed representative of Intrinsic. 
Ref: DRN47697636It is enough to say at this stage  that Mr B2 through his business was an appointed representative of 
Intrinsic and there is at least  some evidence he was or may have been acting in that capacity  when 
giving the advice and arranging the deals.  
can we consider a complaint  about  that advice and/or arranging?
the compulsory jurisdiction:
This type of complaint, if we can consider  it, comes within  our compulsory  jurisdiction.
Under s.226  FSMA:
A complaint which  relates to an act or omission of a person (the respondent)  in carrying on an 
activity to which the compulsory  jurisdiction  applies is to be dealt with under  the ombudsman 
scheme set up under the Act (ie the Financial  Ombudsman Service) if the following conditions 
are satisfied:
othe complainant  is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under  the 
scheme
othe respondent was an authorised person at the time of the act or omission to which  
the complaint relates
othe act or omission occurred  when the compulsory  jurisdiction rules  were  in force in 
relation to the activity in question.
Compulsory jurisdiction  rules means rules made by the FCA specifying the activities to 
which they apply
Intrinsic (the respondent  in this complaint) is an authorised person and was at the time of the events  
to which this complaint relates.   
It is not disputed that Mr B is an eligible complainant and he wishes to have his complaint dealt with 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The compulsory jurisdiction  rules are set out in the DISP section of the FCA rule book.   And the 
compulsory jurisdiction rules/DISP rules applied  to the type of activity complained about in this case at 
the time of those events.   I will consider  whether they cover the facts of this particular complaint  
further below. 
what do the DISP rules cover in general terms?
In general terms  the DISP rules lead to a number of jurisdiction  tests all of which must be satisfied.  
Those tests, in broad terms, are:
do we have jurisdiction over the respondent firm? 
does  the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
is the complainant  eligible?
do we have territorial jurisdiction?
are the time limit rules complied with?
The tests are inter-related to a degree.  I will deal with each of them.   Is convenient  to deal with the 
second point first.  
what do the DISP rules cover  regulated activities:
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
Ref: DRN47697637consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a 
firm in carrying onregulated  activitiesor  any ancillary activities, including advice,  carried 
on by the firm in connection  with them. 
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
As mentioned  above, under  section 39(3) of FSMA:
 the principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
DISP2 also contains the following guidance: 
2.1.4.1G interprets  "carrying on an activity"  as including:
(1) offering,  providing  or failing to provide  a service  in relation to an activity;
(2) administering or failing  to administer a service in relation to an activity;"
2.3.3G interprets "complaints" in this way:
"Complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas  accepted  responsibility)."
is this a complaint that relates to an act or omission when carrying  on a regulated activity?
Section 22 FSMA  defines  "regulated activities" as follows: 
"(1) An activity  is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity  of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) "Investment" includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) "Specified" means specified in an order  made by the Treasury."
The relevant Order is the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 
(RAO).  Article 4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
The rights  under a personal pension scheme (which includes Mr Bs existing  personal pensions and 
the new SIPP  are specified as investments by a provision in Part III (Article 82).  So are the units  in a 
collective investment  scheme  (Article 81).  (The scheme investments seem to be unregulated 
collective investment  schemes  (UCIS)).
Ref: DRN47697638Advising on investments is a specified activity under  Part II (Article  53).  So  is arranging deals in 
investments (Article 25).  And so is agreeing to advise on investments or arrange  deals in investments 
(Article 64).  
It is not necessary to deal with the finer detail  of any of these  investments or activities at this stage.  It 
is enough to say I am satisfied that Mr Bs complaint about Intrinsics appointed representatives 
advice to transfer personal  pensions to a SIPP  is a complaint that relates to an act or omission in 
carrying on a regulated activity (that is the regulated  activity of advising  on investments and/or 
arranging deals in investments and/or  agreeing to carrying on those  activities).
is the complaint against  a firm that is subject to our jurisdiction?
Intrinsic is subject to our jurisdiction.  It is, and was at the time of the events complained about,  
authorised by the regulator.   According to the FCA register Intrinsic currently has permission to:
advise on investments  
advise on pension transfers and opt outs
arrange/bringing about  deals in investments
agree to carry on regulated activities.
So far as I am aware Intrinsic had the same permission at the time of the events in this complaint.   So 
the activities  the complaints  relate  to were activities that came within the scope of Intrinsics 
authorisation from the regulator.
But Intrinsics  point is that Mr B2 was acting outside the scope of the s.39 Agreement  between  him 
and Intrinsic meaning it had not accepted responsibility for the advice.  Put another  way Intrinsic is 
saying Mr B2 was not acting for it when the advice  was given. So it says it is not subject to our 
jurisdiction in relation  to this complaint.
This is the point at the heart of this jurisdiction dispute.  Was Mr B2 acting in the capacity  as Intrinsics  
appointed representative when  he gave  the disputed  advice? 
The issues are involved.   I will set out my view on this issue step by step.
is Intrinsic responsible for the acts and omissions  the complaint  is about?
As mentioned  above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed representative 
in relation to the business  it has accepted  responsibility for.
Appointed representatives  are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  and might 
not act only for the principal  firm.  Sometimes those who operate as appointed representatives  
operate other businesses also.    So sometimes it is clear that a person who happens to be an 
appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  other capacity) rather than 
as business for the principal.
So in the case of Emmanuel  v DBS Management  Plc [1999] Lloyds  Re P.N 593 a principal (under the 
s.44 Financial Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were held to be outside 
the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In that case the claimant had 
been advised  to subscribe  for shares in and lend money to the appointed representative itself. 
Ref: DRN47697639Another example is in the case of Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That case  
concerns agency rather than s.39 appointed representative issues.  Nevertheless the case gives an 
example of a person having a connection with a regulated  business  and doing something on their own 
account.  In that case the person who was an agent for Positive Solutions (for some purposes) was 
held to be engaging  in a recognisably  independent business of his own   a property investment 
scheme.    
In this case the allegation  is that Mr B2 gave advice  to transfer personal pensions to a SIPP to invest  
in a UCIS investment with a third party.  I acknowledge that Intrinsic says 
Mr B2 was not acting  for it and rather he was acting as an introducer to Berkeley Burke and/or 
Sustain.  However  the facts  of the case mean this is not a case where the act or omission was clearly 
an act by a person who happens to be an appointed representative  but who was acting in some other 
capacity.  But that does not mean the appointed representative was definitely  carrying on business  
Intrinsic had accepted responsibility for.  I have to look at it more  closely. 
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives  acting in their 
capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation  of statute not common law 
agency.
I note the following comments made by the courts:
Page v Champion Financial Management Limited  [2014]  EWHC 1778, Mr Simon Picken  QC sitting  as 
a Deputy Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing before me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue that 
Section 39(3)  gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal) sense. This was a sensible 
concession since it is clear  that Section 39(3)  does  not entail the imposition of vicarious  
liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional Liability (7th Ed) at 
paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114, HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely  separate statutory liability and has nothing  to do, on 
the face of it, with the law of agency.  It does not require an agency to be proved before it can 
be activated
In that case  the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship between  
the principal  and the appointed representative depending on the facts  of the case.  However for 
present purposes  it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope of the appointed 
representative status rather  than common law agency principles. 
As mentioned  above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
Ref: DRN476976310(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal  (Intrinsic) is required  to accept responsibly for that business which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC  2834 makes it clear that the words part 
of in s.39 allow a principal  firm to accept responsibility  for only part of the generic  business of a 
prescribed description.
I will first deal with the meaning prescribed business and before dealing with the part of point. 
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section, s. 417 FSMA,  says that where not otherwise defined, prescribed means 
prescribed in regulations  made by the Treasury.  Such regulations have  been made  the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations 2001 (as amended  from 
time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions  of business for which appointed representatives are 
exempt.  
what was prescribed business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in 2011.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations  
2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which  appointed representatives  are exempt

(aa) an activity of the kind specified by article 21 [of the RAO] (dealing investments as agent) 
where the transaction relates  to a contract of insurance.
(a) an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 of the Order (arranging deals in investments) 
where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating  to securities or relevant 
investment.
(ab) an activity of the kind specified by article 25A of the Order (arranging regulated mortgage 
contracts)

(b)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d) an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on activities), 
so far as relevant  to an activity falling  within  subsection(aa),  (a)), (ab)or (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business  is business which  is defined at a high level.  It means business  in the sense 
of certain regulated activities.  It does not mean business in any greater level or particularity.   So it 
does not mean business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means,  say, advising on investments (under article 53 RAO).  It does not mean 
advising Mr B on his particular investments.  
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised  to carry out the above regulated activities in this case.
Ref: DRN476976311what was the prescribed  business Intrinsic accepted responsibility for in this case?
The s 39 Agreement  between Intrinsic and Gwent and Forest expressly incorporated the Compliance  
Manual. The agreement itself said:
4.1 The member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement.
The Compliance  Manual was more  helpful on this point.   It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted it appointed  representative Gwent & Forest  to carry  on 
was arranging deals,  advising on investments  and mortgages and certain insurance and agreeing to 
arrange deals and advise  on investments mortgages and insurance.  Intrinsic accepted responsibility 
for that business  as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did in principle authorise Mr B2 / Gwent and Forest Mortgage Centre to advise 
on investments, arrange deals in investments and agree to do both.  (And Intrinsic authorised Ideal 
Financial Planning to do the same by appointing it on the same standard terms.)
However Intrinsic  says it only authorised its appointed representative to give investment advice 
through advisers who were registered individuals  meaning advisers it had authorised to give 
investment advice and who were registered as advisers with the regulator.  
The s.39 agreement includes:
5. MEMBERS OBLIGATIONS
The Member shall have the following obligations:
5.1 Conduct of Business
5.1.1 The Member shall comply with the provisions  of schedule 2.
Schedule Two of the s.39 Agreement includes:
Ref: DRN4769763122 Personnel
2.1 The Member may appoint  Personnel to carry on the Business,  provided that any such  
Personnel:
2.1.1 are approved  by Intrinsic; and
2.1.2 where  Intrinsic considers it necessary, become an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic;
2.1.3 where  necessary, are approved by the FSA;
2.1.4 have completed  successfully,  any training course provided by Intrinsic from time to 
time
Intrinsic says it had not authorised Mr B2 to give advice  and he was not registered with the FSA to 
give investment advice.   
Intrinsic says that accordingly, Gwent and Forest was not authorised by it to give investment  advice. 
(The same point applies  equally if Mr B2 was working for Ideal  Financial Planning.)
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko v Investuk , HHJ Waksman said the following (where D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge  said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.
Then the judge said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgment and the following  description of the clause] which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
Ref: DRN476976313was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) agreed with 
the above.   In that case the principal had argued that it was not responsible for advice to invest  in an 
investment in which it did not authorise the appointed representative to deal.  The judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenet's behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet  as having such 
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it is clear  that the courts think that at least  some  conditions on the authority given to an appointed 
representative in a s.39 agreement only apply  as between the parties.
Does that mean all terms in the contract apply  in that way?  The answer to that question is no 
because of the words part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I referred to above dealt with this point.  But it was dealt with in the most  recent 
case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834.   In that case  the judge, Mr 
Justice Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
AR's actual authority 
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
Ref: DRN476976314the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Greig in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients... 
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal  is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed representative 
acting within their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes a principal is responsible when the 
appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And sometimes  a principal is not 
responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond  their actual authority.  And the test in the 
Anderson v Sense Network  judgment is that the principal is responsible when the act or omission is 
sufficiently closely linked to the activities for which  the actual authority was given.  
my view  about the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement  in this case:
exclusion of advice  when not given  by an approved/registered individual:
Intrinsic has provided a copy of what it says was the form of Initial Disclosure Document used  by 
Gwent and Forest  at the time of the events in this complaint.  That  document is in template form and 
does not have  Gwent  and Forests name on it.  Assuming the form is in the format used by Gwent and 
Forest the form says What products do we offer. And under that heading it only refers  to insurance 
and mortgages.  Investments are not mentioned.  Intrinsic says this document would  have been given 
to Mr B2s clients  and showed he could  not give investment advice.
While I note Intrinsics  point,  the document does not clearly say that Gwent and Forest or 
Mr B2 cannot give investment advice.  It  does  only refer to insurance and mortgages so a reader 
might perhaps  initially  think that Forest and Gwent only dealt with those matters.  However the same  
form includes a terms of business section on the fifth and final page and it says:
Terms of Business
This document sets out the terms of business between Intrinsic Financial Services and its 
clients. 
Investment Advice and Recommendations
Any investment advice your adviser  provides  will be based on your personal  financial 
objectives. We will confirm these objectives, and the reasons for each recommendation in a 
Reason for Recommendation letter.  If you have asked for any restrictions on the types of 
investment or the markets you wish to invest in, these will be confirmed in the Reason for 
Recommendation letter.
Ref: DRN476976315So the form does not, in my view, make it clear  that the adviser cannot give investment advice.  
Rather it raises the possibility  that the adviser  might give investment advice on behalf of Intrinsic.
In any event it is the terms of the s.39 agreement  that is important.  In this case Gwent and Forest  
the appointed representative - was given authority for the regulated activity of advising on investments  
under the s.39 agreement.  That is the starting position.  So if 
Mr B2 gave investment advice he was doing an activity Gwent and Forest  had been authorised to do.  
It was not just sufficiently  closely connected to the authorised activity as contemplated in the Sense 
Network case   it was one of the activities for which actual authority had been given.
If I am wrong about that, my view is that the giving  of advice  by Mr B2 is sufficiently  closely connected 
to the activity Gwent and Forest was authorised to carry on to mean  Intrinsic is responsible 
notwithstanding that the act is beyond the actual  authority  granted  in the s.39 agreement.   Schedule 2 
of the s.39 agreement seeks to control the way in which the appointed representative conducts  the 
business it conducts not what  business  it conducts.  This restriction is, in my view, the same as or 
closely analogous to certain duties need to be fulfilled before a product was offered  as mentioned in 
the Sense Network case.  
Alternatively the clause is similar in effect to the widely  drawn clause 4.7 in the Ovcharenko  [case] 
that said the appointed  representative:
will not, for the duration of this agreement, carry out any activity  in breach of section 39 or 
of any other  applicable law."
The court decided (in paragraph 35 of the judgment quoted above)  that the restriction regulated the 
position as between the parties only.  Breach of the clause did not mean  the appointed representative 
was acting  beyond the scope of the authority given by the s39 agreement. Or at least,  following the 
Sense Network case, a breach of such a clause does not mean  the appointed representative is acting 
beyond the scope of his authority if the conduct is sufficiently closely connected to the activity for 
which actual authority  was given. And in my view there  is the required degree of connection here 
given that the appointed representative was authorised  to give investment advice  in the foundation 
provisions in the agreement.
While registration with the FSA might seem like a crucial matter in practice it does not seem to have 
been so.  I say this because it has been Intrinsics consistent position  that 
Mr B2 was only authorised by it to give mortgage (and protection insurance advice)  but he was not 
registered with the FSA to give mortgage advice  either.  Whilst Intrinsic has said this is because 
mortgage advisers  do not need to be registered I have seen no evidence that that is the case.  And 
even if it is I do not think the point alters the fundamental or starting position  which is that Intrinsic had 
authorised its appointed  representative to give investment  advice.
advice restricted to approved products
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes the following:
All firms regulated by FSA entered  the depolarised  regime  on 1 June 2005.  As an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels  and 
product ranges chosen  by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
As I understand it at the time of the advice, the following were not approved Plan providers:
[one of Mr Bs existing pension providers]
Berkeley Burke SIPPs
Sustain Investments.
Ref: DRN476976316[The other existing pension provider] was however an approved Plan provider for pensions.   This 
means an Intrinsic appointed representative could  (in principle) advise on [that] pension.  So in 
principle we do have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about advice on the merits  of selling that 
pension.
Further the advice to switch  out [both pensions]  to the Berkeley Burke SIPP to invest in Sustain was 
one matter.  The component parts were all linked to form one overall transaction and so should  all be 
considered together  (as I explain below). 
Alternatively I am aware of another  complaint  against Intrinsic  dealt with by one of my fellow  
ombudsmen.  In that case Intrinsic was asked if it considered that the restrictions on its appointed 
representative meant that the investment the client switches away from has to be a listed Plan in 
order for the appointed representative to be authorised for that transaction.  Intrinsic said no, and that 
the restriction  only relates to the products it recommends.
Intrinsic was also asked if there was any restriction on the appointed representative giving  advice to 
encash a non-Plan investment without  the funds being invested elsewhere.  In that other case 
Intrinsic said:
There is no restriction  to our knowledge, but in practice if the adviser was not subsequently 
recommending a product  on panel then there would  be no remuneration so there would be no 
need for encashment.  Of course there are instances where advice  to encash an investment 
can be provided  (so clients can pay debts etc.) where a product  would not be subsequently 
recommended.  In these cases a fee agreement would be needed for that type of advice.  
Neither the client or the representative have adduced any evidence that the AR or the adviser 
entered into any such agreement. 
There is no evidence  of a fee agreement in this case but I do not consider that to be crucial.  Whether 
or not a client  pays for advice is not the test for whether or not advice was given.  What matters is 
whether or not a personal recommendation is made on the merits  of buying or selling a particular 
investment.  And for the reasons I gave above I consider that there was advice  from Mr B2 to Mr B to 
sell his existing pensions in order to transfer to the new SIPP and invest in the schemes. 
So whether we can consider the [non-list provider pension switch] in any event (because there is no 
restriction on the plans the appointed  representative may advise to switch out of) or only because  it is 
linked to the Plan  advice, the known motivation  for the switch  to the SIPP was to invest  in the 
schemes. So these matters  are all linked.   And following the case of TenetConnect  v Financial 
Ombudsman Service it is clear there is no regulatory  or jurisdictional divide  between  those matters.  If  
Intrinsic is responsible for part of the advice, a complaint about it should  not be considered in isolation  
but in its proper context  which is in connection  with the other parts.   This means we also have 
jurisdiction over the advice to sell the existing pensions and [switch] them to Berkeley Burke  and 
invest in the Sustain  schemes even  though all but [one of the existing pensions] were  non-approved 
Plans - subject to any other relevant restrictions in the s.39 agreement.
I have considered if any of the other provisions in the s.39 agreement  of the Compliance Manual  
mean that Intrinsic  is not responsible for the advice to [switch away from the existing  pensions].   
exclusion of UCIS advice
The Compliance  Manual says advising  on UCIS  is a specialist activity  and outside the appointed 
representatives scope of permission.
I do not however  need to consider whether or not giving advice on UCIS is sufficiently closely linked 
to the activities for which authority was given.  This is because the complaint is not exclusively about  
UCIS advice.  The complaint  is about advice to sell the existing [pension] investments and to take out 
a SIPP to replace existing personal pensions  in order to make the UCIS investment.   This advice is 
not caught  by this exclusion  in the s.39 agreement relating to UCIS advice.  
Ref: DRN476976317exclusion of non-advised  business
The Compliance  Manual also says that Intrinsic  believes  advice is always necessary  and that its sales 
process has been developed bearing  that in mind.  It goes on to say although there is scope within  
the regulators rules to operate certain non-advised  processes Intrinsic has chosen not to take 
advantage of this.  
Again this restriction is not relevant as it is my finding that advice was given by Mr B2 to Mr B.
special process for replacement business
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes a special  process for replacement business.  Intrinsic 
classifies replacement business as when an adviser  recommends that a customer replaces an 
existing contract with a new one. The Compliance  Manual says it is essential that for all replacement 
business the following principles are followed by the adviser:
Research the exiting policy  and fully understand the features and options available.
Carefully compare the features, options and charges of both policies.
Fully explain and record all negative aspects of the replacement to the client.
Ensure  all the disadvantages  as well as the advantages are fully explained  in the reason for 
recommendation letter  and explain  what factors made you decide that the replacement was in 
the clients  best interests.
The Compliance  Manual goes on to say:
Some customers  may have a pre-conceived  idea about what they want  to do and it is easy  
for the adviser to allow  these  cases to become  customer driven.   However,  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS) takes a dim view of these cases.  Their view is often that unless 
the customer  has been  specifically advised not to do something,  then the advisers input  is 
viewed as being a recommendation.
This means  that you need to be clear  about what the most suitable course of action is.  The 
reason for recommendation needs to be absolutely clear about what  was advised, 
irrespective of whether  the customer intends to follow that advice.
In this case the adviser recommended moving Mr Bs existing pensions to a SIPP with Berkeley 
Burke to invest in the Sustain schemes.  Put another way Intrinsic recommended  the replacement of 
two existing policies  with another. The replacement  business process  should therefore have been 
used but it was not.  
If the adviser failed to meet  the standard required in the Compliance  Manual would  this mean  the 
adviser acted  beyond the scope of his authority and that Intrinsic was not responsible for the advice?
In my view the answer to this question ought to be self-evident.  Can a principal really only be 
responsible for advice if it achieves a certain quality  and is presented a certain  format?  This seems 
contrary to the purpose of s.39 and wrong.
If the adviser is to give advice about pensions it follows  that he will need to be able to consider and 
advise upon the advantages and disadvantages  of the clients existing pension provision if he has 
any. Requiring the adviser to document that advice  in a certain way is so closely  related to the 
activities for which permission is given that a breach of such a requirement  is only an inter se matter.   
It applies only as between the principal and the appointed representative.  It does not mean the 
appointed representative acts outside the scope of his authority.  
This type of restriction - as it applies in this case  is either an example of certain  duties needed  to be 
fulfilled before a product  was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense Network .  Or it is closely 
Ref: DRN476976318analogous to such duties.   In either event as explained in the Sense Network case a breach of that 
procedural requirement does not mean that the transaction in question  falls outside the scope of the 
relevant "business"  for which  responsibility is taken.
So if the adviser  breached the requirements in the Compliance Manual relating  to the process  for 
replacement business  in my view this does not mean Intrinsic is not responsible for the advice given.
pre-approval of pension switching advice
Intrinsic has argued  that its Compliance Manual  includes  a requirement for preapproval  of pension  
switching advice.   I cannot  however find that requirement.
If there  is such a requirement  and if it was in a similar form to the requirement to get preapproval for 
insistent client business, my view is that such a restriction is similar in nature and effect  to the 
restriction relating  to the procedural  requirements for replacement business.  
It is therefore  my present view that if there is such restriction a breach  of it in this case  does not mean  
Intrinsic is not responsible for the advice given.
special requirements for pension transfers
The Compliance  Manual says that pension switching  should be treated in the same way as pension 
transfers.   Advice to move  from a personal  pension  to a SIPP is a pension  switch  according to the 
regulators rules.  If the advice is to transfer from an occupational pension to a SIPP,  thats a pension 
transfer according to regulators rules.  But according  to Intrinsics Compliance  Manual both should  be 
treated as pension transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual  the adviser  is required to pass Intrinsics  pensions transfer test before 
advising on (what Intrinsic calls)  pension  transfers.
Intrinsic says Mr B2 had not passed its pension transfer exam and so was not authorised by it to give 
the disputed pension advice.
It is the case that advice to transfer from an occupational pension to a personal pension  must be 
given by or approved  by a qualified  pensions transfer specialist under the regulators rules.  That  
requirement does not however cover pension  switching.   There was no regulatory  requirement for 
such advice to be given  or approved only by a suitably  qualified specialist  at the time of this advice.
In this case the adviser gave pension switching  not pension transfer advice.  In my view the 
requirement to pass the internal pension transfer exam  at least  as regards pension  switching   was 
like the other procedural restrictions referred to above.
my view  on whether the complaint is against Intrinsics appointed representative:
For all the reasons discussed above it is my view that this is a complaint against Intrinsics  appointed 
representative acting in its capacity as Intrinsics appointed representative.  The complaint  relates  to 
business Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for and Intrinsic is subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for complaints about that business.
The remaining points  can be dealt with quickly as they are not in dispute.  
is Mr B an eligible complainant?
Mr B is a natural person  who was acting for purposes outside his trade, profession or business  when 
he was advised by Intrinsics  appointed representative.   And he was a client of the appointed 
representative and therefore a client of Intrinsic.  In my view Mr B is therefore  a customer  of Intrinsic 
and I am satisfied he is an eligible complainant.
Ref: DRN476976319territorial jurisdiction:
The compulsory jurisdiction  covers complaints about activities of a firm (including  its appointed 
representative) carried on from an establishment in the UK. There is not dispute that the activities 
complained about here took place from an establishment in the UK. 
was the complaint  made in time?
Mr B complains about advice in 2011.  He complained to about that advice within six years of the 
disputed advice.   And he referred his complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service with six months 
of Intrinsics final response letter in reply to the complaint.  The  complaint was therefore made in time.
my provisional  decision on jurisdiction
For the reasons  discussed  above it is my provisional  decision that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can consider  this complaint.
my provisional  findings  - merits
In looking at the issue  of jurisdiction I have also been able to consider all the evidence and arguments 
we have so far obtained in order  to decide what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  I  have 
therefore decided  to set out my provisional view now  
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint I am required to 
take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules and guidance and standards; and codes of 
practice;
and where  relevant  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the relevant time.
In January 2013 the FSA issued an Alert on pension  transfers with a view to investing  into 
unregulated products  through  SIPPs.
This complaint involves advice to invest in an unregulated investment scheme  through a SIPP.  
Although the Alert had not been issued at the time of the advice in this case, the Alert comments  on 
how the rules  at the time should have been complied with.  As  such the Alert sets out guidance  
albeit informal guidance that had not been published at the time  on how adviser  firms should have 
acted in 2011.
The Alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some  financial advisers are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) .  Examples   of   these   unreg ulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g an overseas 
property development).  When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
Ref: DRN476976320capable of holding the unregulated investment.  The financial adviser does not give advice 
on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment 
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally  requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
The above guidance is clear.  The advice to switch from personal pensions to a SIPP cannot 
reasonably be considered  by the adviser  in isolation.  The suitability of the proposed  investment 
should also be considered.  
was the investment suitable for Mr B?
Mr B has said he was interested in investing in a SIPP and liked the idea of a green  investment.
However it is also the case that at the time Mr Bs financial position was not so strong that he could 
reasonably afford  to take large risks with his pension.  His income was not very high and nor was his 
overall pension provision.  He transferred his entire  pension which  had a total transfer value of around 
35,000 which is relatively low for a SIPP.  Mr  B was also a relatively  inexperienced investor for a 
SIPP investor.
Further he invested all that money in two forestry based investments schemes  which would be 
considered relatively high risk. Investing in a single commodity involves a lack of diversity or high 
specific risk.  This is compounded by the additional factors  such as of the investments being  based 
overseas in developing economies and being  held in an unregulated format meaning  it was subject to 
less supervision and not covered by the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme. These factors  
made the investment  high risk for a UK based investor like Mr B.  
Ref: DRN476976321In all the circumstances it is my view that Mr B was not in a position reasonably to understand or 
afford the risks involved in the transfer away from [his existing pensions] and invest  in the schemes  
within a SIPP.
Mr B had been working in a self-employed basis for a few years and had been interested  in finding 
out more about SIPPs.  He seems to have been attracted  to the potential  benefits of being  in control  
of his pension, of independence.  So I do not think Mr B was risk averse.  But suitable  advice should 
have warned him against  taking undue risk with his pension funds.  
It is therefore  my view that suitable advice would have been to either  leave the pensions where they 
were or to perhaps invest in similar low cost traditional personal pension arrangements with access  to 
a wide choice of funds where Mr B could exercise some degree of control  if he wanted to.  But the 
additional costs usually involved in starting new plans would probably have favoured  leaving things 
unchanged.
It is accordingly my present  view that it was unsuitable  advice to recommend to Mr B that he transfer 
to a SIPP  to invest in the Sustain investment schemes.  And that with suitable advice Mr B would 
have left his pensions unchanged.
potential claims  against other parties
Intrinsic says it has noted that the Financial Ombudsman Service  has made a decision against 
Berkeley Burke in a different but similar complaint on the basis it was at fault for not adequately 
checking a Sustain forestry investment before investing  in it on behalf of a client.   Intrinsic says it 
wishes to have that point considered as part of its defence  to this complaint.
When investment advice  is given the adviser  ordinarily has responsibility for the suitability of that 
advice.  The client may have other potential claims against  others involved but that does not 
extinguish the potential claim against the adviser or its principal as in Mr Bs complaint.   So even if the 
SIPP provider was also at fault (and it should be noted that Berkeley Burke  still disputes this services 
decision) that does not remove  or replace 
Mr Bs claim against  Intrinsic.
In my view it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold the complaint against Intrinsic 
for the fault of its appointed representative and require it to put it things right.  The best way to deal 
with any potential  claim  against the SIPP provider  is to transfer  the right to make any such claims to 
Intrinsic so it can pursue  it if it wishes.
how to put things right
In my view Intrinsic should put things  right as follows:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values  of Mr Bs transferred pensions as at the date of my final decision 
had they not been transferred to the SIPPs.  
Intrinsic should ask [those pension  providers]  to calculate  the notional transfer values they would have 
applied as at the date of this decision had Mr B not transferred his pensions but instead remained  
invested.If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Bs SIPP at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure.
Ref: DRN4769763223. And then pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer  values are increased  by the amount 
calculated in (2). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.If its unable to pay the total amount into Mr Bs SIPP, Intrinsic should  pay the compensation  as a 
cash sum to Mr B. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. So the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would  
otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax at retirement. For 
example, if Mr B is a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount  equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should  be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed by Mr B to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Intrinsic  given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that 
Mr B continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, Intrinsic should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the fairest  way 
of putting Mr B back in the position he would have been in. 
So, to provide  certainty to both parties, I think its fair that Intrinsic pays Mr B an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or undertakes 
to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable  period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, Intrinsic may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking  to give 
it the net amount  of any payment he may receive  from the investment in that five year period, as well 
as any other payment he may receive from any party as a result of the investment.  That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount they may receive.  Intrinsic will need 
to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If it asks Mr B to provide an undertaking, payment of 
the compensation awarded by my decision  may be dependent upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Intrinsic wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking  for any 
future payments under  the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. If Intrinsic 
fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr B should  then have the option of trying to cancel the investment to allow 
the SIPP  to be closed.
Mr B should also assign  to Intrinsic his right to make any claim against the SIPP provider to Intrinsic if 
it wishes.
5. Pay Mr B 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B will have been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in 
effect, all of his pension fund. I think that a payment  of 500 is fair to compensate for that upset.
Ref: DRN476976323my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Intrinsic  should  pay fair compensation  in each 
of the complaints as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769763