K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that they had a choice  
about it. Lloyds  has sent us a copy of a PPI application  form, signed  by Mr and Mrs C. And 
its sent us a copy of a direct debit instruction to pay for the PPI, signed by Mr and Mrs C. 
Based on these forms, I think Lloyds did make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C that they had a 
choice about the PPI.
Mr and Mrs C have said that Mrs Cs mother filled in the PPI application form for them. But I 
dont think theres enough  evidence for me to say it was filled in against their wishes.  And if 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt agreed  to what was said in the form, they shouldnt  have signed it.
Mr and Mrs C have also said they felt pressured  into taking out the PPI as they were told if 
they took it out within six months of the mortgage, they would  be accepted without  any need 
for any medical evidence.  But theres nothing in any of the paperwork  Ive seen from the sale 
which says this is the case.  I dont think that being accepted for the cover without the need 
for medical  evidence wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Cs minds  about the PPI if theyd 
decided they didnt want it. And I dont think six months is a particularly short  time period 
either. So I dont  think  theres enough evidence here for me to say that Lloyds unfairly 
pressured Mr and Mrs C into taking the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check that it was right for them.  
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, they dont  appear to have  been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  The policy couldve paid out for longer than theyve told us they wouldve been  
entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on their savings to 
make their mortgage payments if one of them  wasnt earning.
Mr and Mrs C have said that Mr C was made redundant during the life of the policy and they 
didnt need to make a claim, and that this shows they didnt need the PPI. But peoples  
financial circumstances can change. And just because  Mr and Mrs C didnt claim at a later 
date, doesnt mean  that the policy wasnt right for them  at the time of the sale. As I explained 
above, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think the policy  was right 
for them.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs C clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Cs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
Ref: DRN43725722protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think  it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs C off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs C some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission  Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they asked to remove Mrs C from the policy in early 2012,  but 
were told that they couldnt. But Lloyds has sent us records of this call, which show  Mr and 
Mrs C were told Mrs C could be removed from the policy,  but they would need to send a 
letter with both of their signatures  on in order to do this. So I dont think theres enough 
evidence for me to say that Lloyds refused to remove Mrs C from the policy,  or that Mr and 
Mrs C should receive  a refund of any premiums or any compensation as a result.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372572