K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
background
Mr R had an income protection policy with Unum. In July 2017 he became too unwell to work 
and was signed off with work-related stress. Mr R claimed on his insurance  the following 
month in preparation  for it to take over making payments following the completion of his 
deferred period  in January 2018. But his claim was declined. Mr R would like for his claim to 
be accepted.
Unum said it declined  Mr Rs claim because he had not met the policy terms. In particular, it 
said Mr R was not considered incapacitated as described under the policy. 
Our investigator said Unum has not made a mistake. She said there was not enough 
medical evidence  to support that Mr R was unable  to work or perform  the material and 
substantial duties of his role. 
Mr R did not think this was fair. He highlighted the consultant psychiatrists report,  which said  
he was suffering from clinical depression. He also requested that Unum  pay for an 
independent medical assessment.
And so its for me to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the particular circumstances of Mr Rs complaint  and Id like to 
acknowledge the difficult time hes been through. I thought it worth  mentioning  that neither 
our investigator, nor Unum, are disputing  that Mr Rs been through a tough time, which has, 
understandably, had an impact  on his mental health. But for the purposes of my final 
decision, I must consider whether Mr R meets  the policy terms and whether Unum has 
applied them fairly. I have also considered Unums obligation under ICOBS  (the Insurance 
Code of Business  Sourcebook). 
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. My reasons for doing so are similar to 
those already explained by our investigator. But in addition, Id like to explain the following:
Under ICOBS an insurer must  not unreasonably reject or avoid a claim. Unum 
rejected Mr Rs claim because it did not think he met its policy  terms, in particular, its 
definition of incapacity. The terms describe incapacity as not being able to perform  
the material and substantial duties of your occupation because of your illness or 
injury. And so Ive considered this, alongside  the medical  evidence provided  by 
Mr Rs Doctor,  CBT counsellor and the Consultant  Psychiatrist who evaluated him as 
part of a referral made by his Doctor. All reports are consistent that Mr R suffered 
with work-related stress, but none  offer any further explanation, or guidance,  on 
whether hes able to fulfil the material and substantial duties of his role. And so in 
absence of this, Unum also considered Mr Rs medical history and decided  he did not 
meet the definition  of incapacitated. I think this was a reasonable way to assess 
Ref: DRN48900812Mr Rs claim and is in line with other insurers good  practices. Unum decided  it had 
enough information to reach a decision on Mr Rs claim  and it informed  him of that in 
good time too. 
During its investigation, Unum noticed that Mr R had been  in the care of a therapist 
since 2015 which was triggered by work-related  stress. Ive seen his medical records 
and Im satisfied this was the case. I also note Mr R was not receiving regular 
treatment between  then and July 2017,  rather,  he would arrange a session as and 
when he felt it necessary. To put this into context, he attended 18 sessions over a 28 
month period.  Unum has said conditions such as work-related  stress are not covered 
under the policy.  The reason for this is because stress is not considered  a mental 
illness. Rather, its a reaction to a set of circumstances, thats usually situational, 
meaning once  the cause  of the stress has passed, so too should the state of stress. 
This appears consistent with Mr Rs medical  history, as he reported symptoms of 
work related  stress in July 2017  and, indeed, a number of times  prior to this. Each 
time his medical records show improvements after a period of time. After hed been 
signed off work in July, I note there was an improvement in the months that followed 
in September  and November according to CBT counsellors notes;
difficulties in anxiety and mood which were occurring in the context of 
perfectionism after three  four sessions mood improved and;
[Mr R] is able to deal with stress better  since the last therapy.  Work-related  issues 
have left him worried about the future
This further  persuades me that Unum has acted  fairly by relying  on this information  to 
decline Mr Rs claim.
Because Mr R was signed  off with work-related stress  in July Unum  has declined  his 
claim fairly,  as its not something the policy  covers. The medical notes  also say that 
although Mr R is suffering from work-related stress,  hes still able to function  outside 
of work, which further supports that these issues are mostly  work related. This also 
means Mr Rs incapacity is not severe enough that it affects  his functional ability 
because hes still able to function  outside  of his occupation. And so I think Unum has 
made a reasonable decision that he does  not satisfy its definition  of incapacitated.
Following Unums  decision  to decline Mr Rs claim, a subsequent report was issued 
by Mr Rs consultant  psychiatrist in February  2018. This report  suggested Mr R was 
now suffering from moderate depression and some anxious  behaviours. But it does 
not go as far as to describe what triggered  the change  in his mental health. And 
given all medical records prior to this appear  to infer Mr R was suffering from work-
related stress, I think it reasonable  that Unum question this further.  Unum  believes 
this report was crafted to challenge its decision to decline Mr Rs claim. It said this 
because this report is contradictory to all other  medical  records  as it described  Mr Rs 
symptoms in a totally  different way. I dont think its unreasonable to expect there to 
be in change in Mr Rs mental health  over this period of time.  
But Im more persuaded by Unums argument  here because  it essentially says that 
given the back  drop to Mr Rs problems,  a deterioration in his mental  wellbeing  is 
understandable, given  the stressful situation  he was in. But that does not mean 
Unum has declined  Mr Rs claim unfairly  as there  was no mention in the report  of his 
Ref: DRN48900813ability to fulfil the material and substantial duties  of his occupation. And so Unum  is 
entitled to rely on the medical evidence  it has to decline his claim and Ive found no 
evidence to suggest its done  so unfairly.  
I dont think it fair to ask Unum to pay for an independent medical report  in these 
circumstances because  its already reached  an outcome on Mr Rs claim and I think  it did so 
fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4890081