K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains Magnet  Insurance Services Ltd mis-sold her a home insurance policy. 
Mrs T had a representative for the sale of the policy and this complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to their actions  as being those of Mrs T.  
background
In January 2018 Mrs T took out a home insurance policy  through Magnet. She used a price 
comparison website. A little later there was an escape of water in her home. It caused some 
damage. But when she made a claim on the policy the insurer  refused  to pay. 
The insurer  said Mrs Ts property had been unoccupied for more  than 30 days. And due to a 
special condition added to her policy, in those  circumstances, it only provided limited cover.  
In particular it didnt  pay claims  for escape of water. Mrs T complains that when buying the 
policy Magnet didnt do enough to make her aware  of this. She says if it had she wouldnt 
have agreed to the policy. Instead she would have found one that would have covered her. 
So she thinks Magnet  should cover the losses caused by the escape of water.
Magnet didnt accept  it had failed to provide clear enough information about  the special 
condition. Our investigator felt Magnet had done  enough to make Mrs T aware of it. So she 
didnt recommend Magnet pay Mrs T anything. Mrs T didnt accept that. So the complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.  
Mrs Ts made  a separate complaint about  the insurers  decision to refuse the claim.  In this 
complaint, about  the firm that arranged the cover, Ive only considered the sale of the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Magnet 
pay for the escape  of water damage  or do anything  differently. 
When selling  the policy Magnet had to make sure Mrs T had enough information about it to 
decide if it was right for her. It had to provide this information in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. 
Mrs T was taken  from the price comparison  website  to Magnets own pages. She was asked 
if any building works were planned  during the next 12 months. She said yes.  She then 
answered no when  asked if the property  would remain occupied throughout the work. It 
seems because of these answers  the special conditions were applied  to the cover.
After answering those questions Mrs T was taken to a payment screen. This said at the top 
Please note that your policy has Special Conditions.  Beside this was an invitation to click a 
link so she could view the policys  terms and conditions.  
Magnet says Mrs T clicked  on the link. She accepts she did. Magnet says the link opened up 
policy documents. The first page  recommended checking the cover  provided. Page three 
was headed special conditions in large  bold type. Further  down the heading unoccupied 
property clause was underlined in full upper case.  Below that the heading changes to the 
cover provided was underlined. Underneath it was explained cover will be restricted to only 
Ref: DRN41655522limited causes of damage. These were listed and included fire, lightening, smoke, explosion  
or earthquake.
Similar policy information was posted  to Mrs T a few days later. The cover letter  asked she 
read some attached  documents. It also explained  special conditions  are attached to the 
policy. The documents provided the similar information about them  as outlined above. 
Its usual for this type of policy to cover  risks like theft and escape  of water.  So the policy  not 
providing that, in certain circumstances, is something Id expect  to be brought to Mrs Ts 
attention. And I think Magnet did just about enough. Mrs T says she looked at this 
information but didnt understand the implications. Thats unfortunate, but I dont think it 
would be reasonable to say Magnet was at fault for that. If she was unsure  of anything in the 
policy she could have  called Magnet,  as the information suggested, before agreeing to the 
policy.   
Mrs T says Magnet  should have proactively called her to explain the special conditions.  But I 
wouldnt expect it to do that. 
I recognise this will be disappointing for Mrs T but I cant fairly say she lost out because  of a 
mistake by Magnet.  So Im not going to make it cover the damage caused the escape of 
water or do anything differently.      
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Magnet Insurance Services  Ltd do anything 
differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4165552