K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained about the charges  that were applied to her pension when she ceased 
contributing to it. She says she was not told by the adviser when she set up her pension 
policy that these  would  be applied. Chadney Bulgin LLP (CB) now takes  responsibility for the 
advice the adviser  provided and therefore  has responded to this complaint. 
background 
Mrs C was advised to take out a personal  pension in 1998.  In 2002 she stopped contributing  
to the pension and charges were (later) applied. She says that she was not told when the 
advice was given  that charges would be applied if she stopped contributing to the pension 
and the policy booklet (PP9S1) she was supplied with when the pension  was set up does not 
mention any paid-up  charge.
Mrs C complained to CB but it did not uphold  her complaint. It said the adviser did provide 
Mrs C with information about the charges when  the policy was arranged. It said the policy  
brochure provided to her said there  would be charges if contributions ceased.  
Mrs C referred  her complaint to this service. CB then provided an email which  it said showed 
that Mrs C was complaining about  charges levied by the policy  provider that were not 
outlined in a booklet provided  by the policy provider.  It said the policy brochure was provided 
by CB and the policy booklet was provided  by the policy provider. It said policy  booklet 
PP9M2 does refer to paid up charges,  PP9S1 that the policy provider sent when the policy 
was set up, does  not refer to paid up charges.  It only received PP9S1 from Mrs C. 
CB said that PP9M2  should have been  sent by the policy provider when the policy was set 
up. CB does  not have access to these  booklets   they are sent directly by the policy provider  
and Mrs C and CB rely on the policy provider to do this. CB cannot be held responsible  if the 
policy provider did not provide this to Mrs C. It has no record of CB advising Mrs C that there  
would be no paid-up  charges. 
In summary  it said that it was not CBs process to, explain intricate policy  details at point of 
sale, we rely on the providers to do this via their policy schedule and booklet. And that it 
believes the complaint is not against CB but Aegon.
An investigator at this service considered the complaint. She said that Mrs C had said that 
she had a conversation with her adviser when  she stopped contributions  and he said that 
there would not be a paid-up charge. But she had not seen evidence  to support that. She 
said that she had seen a letter from 2002  from the adviser to Mrs C. This did refer to 
stopping contributions but did not refer to any charges. However, she said that she had seen 
a letter  for the policy provider  of 2002 that did say that a paid-up charge would be applied  
yearly. She thought  that CB had a duty in 2002 to inform Mrs C what  charges would apply.
However she wasnt persuaded  that Mrs C would have chosen to keep making pension  
contributions if fully informed  because of her financial situation  at the time. She noted that 
she was contacted in 2005 regarding re-starting  her contributions but did not do so until 
2018. So on this basis she didnt think CB should  have to pay the paid-up charges. She did 
however think that CB had caused  Mrs C some  concern and upset  given the lack of clear 
information. She suggested  that it pay Mrs C £200. 
Ref: DRN48081512Although CB said that it still believed liability rested with the pension policy provider, it 
agreed to pay £200 in settlement of the complaint.  
Although Mrs C was prepared to accept the £200, she still felt the paid-up charges should be 
refunded. So the complaint has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding is that Mrs C was advised  to take out the personal pension  in 1998 and 
she stopped contributions in 2002.  Because of the terms of the personal pension,  paid up 
charges were applied  from 30 March  2005. 
I have considered the policy information that the parties have said,  variously,  was supplied.
PP9S1
Mrs C refers to this as the Policy  Conditions Booklet she was sent by the policy provider. 
Her policy schedule  does refer to the applicable conditions being PP9S1 so it seems  more 
likely than not that this is the booklet with which  she was supplied. From what  I can see this 
booklet does not refer to paid up charges, or refer to them in any clear  manner. 
PP9M2
As I have said, I believe PP9S1 is the booklet  likely  supplied to Mrs C. But for completeness, 
I have also considered this booklet.  My understanding is that CB say this should have been 
supplied by the policy provider. This is a 44 page  Policy Conditions Booklet. On page  28 
there is a section about charges. And on page 29 is a section about paid up charges. This 
is technical in nature and, in summary, I do not believe that Mrs C would necessarily have  
been aware from this of the particular nature of paid  up charges that might be applied. As 
an example, the section  sets out:
While the policy is considered by (policy provider)  to be paid-up, the Standard Member 
Charge will be altered. If the Member was deemed in good  faith by (policy  provider) to be a 
member of a GPP when  the Policy became paid-up,  then the Standard Member Charge is 
altered to £12 per Policy Year payable annually. For any other applicable  Member  it is 
altered to £24 per Policy Year payable annually. Both of these figures shall be increased 
from the Date of Commencement in line with increases described in sub-section (d) below.
The Policy  shall be considered to be paid up if one or more of the following apply to all of the 
policies in the Policy. 
The booklet  does not describe in language that I believe Mrs C would understand exactly  
what would  happen  if she ceased contributions. Its a fairly technical 44 page booklet. 
I note that CB has previously said:
At the time this policy was arranged (and our normal process) it was not (and is not) part of 
our advice process to explain  in full detail to the client  the charges to be applied  if they were  
to stop paying into the policy. It was explained  that they could stop and restart  contributions  
Ref: DRN48081513and that charges could be applied, as explained  in the product brochure provided at the 
time.
(policy provider) then sent out the client's policy documents, with a policy  brochure (PP 9M2) 
which explained the 'general conditions' of the policy and on pages 29 (iii) - 33 details the 
charges for a paid-up policy.  This was not something that we as advisers were provided  
with, it came from the (policy provider)  . It is a complex and technical  explanation that is 
neither client nor adviser friendly and as such would require a calculation  from the provider.
So CB has said it didnt  explain  the full detail  of the charges to Mrs C and the booklet  is a, 
complex and technical explanation that is neither client nor adviser  friendly and as such 
would require a calculation from the provider.
The policy brochure  CB says it supplied is called  the Reflex Personal  Pension. On page  2 
there is reference to altering contributions. It is set out that:
You can change the amount  you contribute  to suit your budget.
You can stop and start contributions at any time (there may be some extra charges 
for this).  
In terms of alerting  Mrs C to the charges that were  subsequentially made, this guidance is 
not specific and does not set out whether charges will be applied  or how much  they might 
be. It does  however set out that there could be some charges.
It is disputed to what extent Mrs C was made  aware  of paid-up charges. It seems  to me 
that, in terms of CBs role, at best it was disclosed that some  charges could apply,  but not 
what they might be (it may well have been  very difficult to work  out exactly  what  they would 
be in advance).  Bearing in mind that the pension  was set up as a long term method of 
making pension  contributions,  I wouldnt  necessarily  expect that a great  deal of emphasis be 
placed, when  giving  advice, on what exactly would happen (in terms of exact  charges) if 
contributions ceased. But I would expect  that it would be mentioned and at least  general 
guidance given  that there  would be some likelihood that charges would be applied. More 
information could  then be sought about that at a time when contributions  ceased (the 
provider of the pension would also have  a role to play in that).  
I note that the evidence  is that there was some contact between the adviser, the policy 
provider and Mrs C when  contributions ceased. Although CB has a copy  of a letter sent to it 
by the policy  provider about the charges to be applied at this point, there  isnt a copy  of the 
letter that it is said would have been sent to Mrs C. It is therefore unclear what information  
Mrs C was given. 
What is crucial is what otherwise would  have happened if the situation had been  made  
clearer to Mrs C. As discussed, this is a long term pension plan where in normal 
circumstances contributions would be maintained. I dont think it more likely that Mrs C 
would have declined  to take out the pension  on the basis that some charges might be 
applied if she stopped contributions. That is especially as these would be the kind of charges 
usually applied by providers of such pensions at the time. So I think  it more  likely that Mrs C 
would have taken  out the pension in any event. 
Ref: DRN48081514I would also say that it is not the case that such charges should simply be made  good  by CB 
on the basis that they might not have  been  discussed sufficiently. The charges would have 
applied regardless.   
As to what would have  occurred in 2002  had Mrs C been clearer  as to what  would happen if 
she ceased contributions,  given  her financial situation at the time and the fact that 
contributions did not recommence until 2018,  I agree with the investigator and dont believe it 
has been evidenced that she would  have made  the minimum level of contributions required. 
So, Mrs C would more likely have the same pension and the charges would have  applied  in 
any event. So I agree with the investigator  that it wouldnt be right to require CB to make 
good the paid up charges. 
I do agree  that the likely lack of clarity provided  by CB as to the charges would likely  have  
caused Mrs C some inconvenience and I note that both parties to the complaint have agreed 
to a payment  of £200 in that respect. That seems  to me a fair resolution. 
I have noted that there might be an option for Mrs C to avoid the charges if she makes up 
the minimum level of contributions since 2002. But this would be a significant amount and I 
do not know if Mrs Cs financial situation  would allow that. This may be something that Mrs C 
could discuss with the policy provider and I note she is raising a complaint with that 
business.
 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint insofar as CB caused Mrs C some upset and inconvenience  that 
warrants an award. Chadney Bulgin LLP should pay Mrs C £200  should she accept my 
decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4808151