K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd wont honour a chargeback claim hes made for a failed  
watch repair. 
background
Mr W has a credit card with NewDay. In November 2017 he paid for a service  to his watch. 
But he was disappointed when the watch was returned to him with a fault and when he 
returned the watch to the merchant he was still unhappy with the quality of the work theyd 
carried out. He asked for a refund but was unable to secure this from the merchant.
So Mr W contacted NewDay. He asked  them  to process a chargeback and refund the 
£99.99 hed spent on the service. On a phone call with them  they explained that the £99.99 
would be refunded to his card and he could consider the matter  closed.
The £99.99 was refunded  and Mr W proceeded to get his watch  repaired.  He was therefore  
very surprised to get a letter from NewDay in March explaining that they would be returning 
the £99.99 to the merchant and telling Mr W to get an independent report to show  the 
problem he had with the service so he could dispute the transaction.  
Mr W complained  that this request was made too late. Hed already been told the matter was 
closed and had got the watch  fixed.  So he didnt have a fault for an independent company to 
examine anymore. He thought it unfair for NewDay to have told him the matter was closed 
and said that, as that led to him getting  the watch fixed, they had prevented him from being 
able to demonstrate there  were faults  with the service hed received.
He therefore referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator agreed with him. He 
listened to the call Mr W had with NewDay and understood  that he would have  left that call 
with the impression that the matter was closed. He thought this would have led him to get 
the watch repaired elsewhere. So whilst he thought  it was normal for NewDay to be seeking 
an independent assessment he didnt  think,  in this instance, it was fair  as it was clear, 
having taken their advice, Mr W could no longer get one. So he suggested the most 
reasonable solution was for NewDay to refund  the £99.99.
But NewDay  disagreed  and they asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the most reasonable resolution  to this issue is for NewDay  to return Mr Ws £99.99.  I 
know this will disappoint NewDay so please  allow me to explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN44649452When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid through  a chargeback claim if theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation made  by the supplier. 
Here there appears to have been a breach of contract by the supplier because  the 
workmanship wasnt to a satisfactory standard. But I think Mr W has been denied  an 
opportunity to prove his case because, I agree, the information he was provided with in the 
telephone call with NewDay would, in all probability, have led him to believe the matter was 
closed.
I think the fact Mr W arranged a further  repair demonstrates that he believed this was the 
case and also demonstrates  he was unhappy with the quality of the first repair.  It seems to 
make no sense for him to arrange  a further repair otherwise.
So as Mr W cant  arrange an independent inspection  and as I think  its most likely  the 
service he received from the merchant was unsatisfactory, I think  the most reasonable action 
would be for NewDay  to refund the £99.99 he spent on the original  service.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and ask NewDay  Ltd to refund 
£99.99 to Mr W in recognition of a successful chargeback  request.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4464945