K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint concerns  the Guaranteed Investment Bond he took out via Santander UK 
Plc in 1998.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 3 January  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Santander did not accept my provisional decision, and said:
While  Mr L made  an enquiry about  surrendering  it in 2002 he did not do so till 2004, 
the maturity date, at which point he got back his initial  investment  sum plus his early 
bird bonus of £25
According to Mr Ls ISA application from 1999 (the following year) he was working as 
an electrician and had an income  of £25,000  and this was not the sole household 
income. This indicates that his back injury  did not ultimately  affect his employment 
prospects and that the 1998  investment  did not prove unaffordable
The fact that the funds  come from an industrial injury pay-out should  not preclude  a 
customer making risk-based investments
While  the middle  forecast  on the projection was broadly similar to savings rates at the 
time the product had the potential to considerably outperform savings rates  with a 
maximum return of 80%
If it achieved this return  it is unlikely  Mr L would have made this complaint
This was a simple-to-understand  product  and there is no reason  to assume that Mr L 
did not understand it
The current inflation rate is 2.7% while savings rates are less than 1%, meaning 
savers are getting  a negative return on their money in real terms. Businesses  do not 
point this out so why should advisors  have done so when recommending a capital-
guaranteed product?
The products  literature would have met the requirements of the industry  regulator  at 
the time,  including  its list of risk factors. This complaint should  be assessed in the 
light of the compliance standards of the time
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I have not questioned the legitimacy of this product or the adequacy  of the literature 
from an execution-only perspective. However,  as Santander knows,  if a customer  receives 
financial advice  which I am satisfied occurred in this case   the advisor is responsible  for 
ensuring that s/he is fully aware of the advantages and disadvantages of a product such  that 
they are able to make  an fully informed decision as to whether it matches their needs  and 
objectives.
In this context, the advisor  unlike Mr L  would have been  easily  able to make a swift and 
pertinent comparison of the illustrated potential returns  and those available via current 
guaranteed savings accounts at the time.  Such a comparison would have shown the very 
real risk that this product  would not deliver  a better return than the obvious risk-free 
alternatives  and that such  a gamble involved accepting the risk of a very substantial fall in 
Ref: DRN40538932the real value of a customers money over a six year term  by getting no return  at all. Ive 
seen no evidence to indicate that the advisor  explained all this to Mr L.
I do not accept that the calculation above  was so simple that Mr L, an inexperienced 
investor, would  have easily been  able to make it himself without this issue  being highlighted 
or explained. Its also important to reiterate that the middle forecast  was not broadly similar  
to savings rates, as Santander claims, but significantly lower.
I also do not accept  the analogy  with the current inflation rate and savings accounts. Firstly, I 
suspect most customers are well aware that savings rates are very low compared to inflation  
as this is very widely acknowledged  and a far simpler comparison to make. Also,  if people  
do not wish to take a risk with their savings there are few alternatives. Crucially, most  people 
do not seek financial advice when putting money  in a deposit  account  or pay for it  so a 
business responsibility is far more limited  than with an advised sale.
I also do not agree with Santanders view that Mr L was necessarily in a position to commit 
to investing this money in a risk-based investment at this time. Whether it is appropriate to 
invest an injury-related pay-out, and how soon this ought to be contemplated, will depend on 
a myriad of factors. My provisional decision solely concerned the suitability of the advice in 
Mr Ls particular circumstances. 
These included  the fact that he had no investment experience, had not sought investment 
advice and  from the evidence Ive seen  faced an uncertain  future  re his employment and 
the ongoing impact  of his injury.
Finally, I dont dispute that Mr L is unlikely to have complained if this investment had proved 
highly lucrative but as he did complain  my role is decide whether the advice  given at the 
time  was suitable.  The fact that he did return to full-time employment a year later does not 
mean he was wisely advised to invest this money so soon after receiving it a year earlier 
when his situation was far from certain.
Santander should therefore  calculate  how much interest Mr L might have earned  if hed kept 
this money in a secure interest-bearing account and pay the difference between  the amount  
he could have got back and what he did via this bond. To do this it should use the no-risk 
formula recommended  by this service  i.e. the returns on the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 
to 17 months maturity.
It should then add 8% simple interest  per annum  from the date of surrender/maturity of this 
product to the date of settlement of this complaint.  This is to compensate  Mr L for the loss of 
use of this money in the interim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN40538933Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40538934provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ls complaint concerns the Guaranteed Investment Bond he took out via Santander UK Plc in 
1998. He surrendered it in 2002 receiving back  just over 99% of his money i.e. he got no return.
background
Mr Ls representative said he had just received  £10,000 from an industrial injury and was wrongly 
recommended to invest £8,000 and then a further  £1,500  (in a different product a year later) and this 
was too soon  after getting his pay-out, particularly  given  he had no other savings or investment 
experience. He had not sought investment advice but been encouraged to speak to a branch advisor  
by counter staff.
He had a mortgage, three dependent children and was self-employed; he also had ongoing spinal 
problems which could affect his employment prospects. Given all these things he should not have 
been advised  to take any risk with his money including the risk of getting no return on it. 
An adjudicator at this service didnt  feel Mr Ls complaint should be upheld as the bond  was very low 
risk and there wasnt anything to suggest the product wasnt suitable for him. In her view the literature 
clearly explained that Mr L was only guaranteed to get back the capital he originally invested.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, from what Ive read, it looks as if Mr L only invested £5,000 in this bond  in 1998. If this is 
incorrect I will need  further evidence  about this.
Santander could only provide the initial application  form but this confirms that this was not an 
execution-only sale, something  supported by Mr Ls recollection that he was told to speak to a branch  
advisor by counter staff.  So while there is no record of a fact find or suitability letter I am satisfied, on 
the balance of probabilities,  that this was an advised sale.
Given this sale occurred 20 years ago (and the bond  was surrendered over 15 years ago) it is not 
surprising that Santander has not retained more  documentation. So I am unable  to be certain  as to 
what discussions,  if any, took place  about the risks posed by this bond and whether  Mr L was made 
fully aware of the implications of getting no return, let alone whether  he was in a position to take a 
fully informed view about the prospects for the FTSE.
 
However, I do not think there is sufficient  evidence to safely  conclude that it was sensible to 
recommend Mr L put any of his industrial  injury  compensation at risk given his overall circumstances 
at the time,  including the risk that he could get no return on his money  at the end of six years.  
Depending on inflation  this could have meant a reduction in the actual value  of his money  of as much 
as a quarter  or more. I dont believe this was a risk Mr L should have been advised to take given his 
limited finances and potentially uncertain work  prospects.
I also think  it is unlikely that Mr L would have been able to be confident that he would  have no need to 
access any of this money within the six year time span of the bond, particularly given his ongoing 
health issues. And, in fact, he did surrender  the bond after just four years.
Crucially, I also think it is very unlikely  that the advisor  offered Mr L a fair and necessary  comparison 
between the sort of returns being promoted via this bond and those  on offer via guaranteed  deposit 
accounts at the time,
Ref: DRN40538935According to the bonds brochure, if the FTSE rose by the middle  quoted forecast investors  would  get 
back the equivalent  of 5% a year after six years yet the average deposit  rate in 1988 was 6.33% 
(although this was obviously not guaranteed for six years). Nevertheless, if the advisor had explained 
this it is hard to believe that Mr L would have risked getting no return  on his money when he could 
have been guaranteed a better  return than the middle  forecast  without taking any risk.
For these  reasons I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld and Santander should pay 
compensation based on the principle that Mr L should not have been recommended to take any risk 
with this money, and would  not have done so if properly  advised. 
It should therefore  calculate how much interest Mr L might have earned if hed kept this money in a 
secure interest-bearing account and pay the difference between the amount he could  have got back 
and what he did via this bond. To do this it should use the no-risk formula recommended by this 
service i.e. the returns on the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity.
It should then add 8% simple interest per annum  from the date of surrender to the date of settlement 
of this complaint. This is to compensate Mr L for the loss of use of this money  in the interim.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4053893