K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc did not alter the price  of his pet insurance 
policy when he moved addresses.
Background
Mr B took out a Pet Plan lifetime  pet insurance policy in 2010 to cover his dog. The policy
is underwritten by Allianz.
When Mr B took out his policy  he lived in a large city. In 2011 Mr B says he moved his dog 
out of the city and was surprised that the cost of his policy didnt reduce. I note his renewal 
documents show the change of address from his 2013 renewal. Mr B thinks  he should have 
been charged less as a result of his dogs move out of the city. He was unhappy and says he 
contacted Allianz  about it at the time.  As it was such a long time ago, Allianz havent been  
able to provide  their response to the complaint he made. But I note Mr B did not bring  his 
concerns to this Service at that time. 
In late 2017 Mr B moved again with his dog. Again, he was surprised  that the cost of his 
policy premium was not altered because of the move. Mr B did some  research online and 
discovered that if he put identical  details into the Pet Plan website it generated different  
quotes for each postcode  with fairly  significant price  differences.  
Because of this Mr B says he has been  overcharged  since his dogs move  out of the city and 
wants Allianz to refund  the difference between what he thinks  he should  have  been  paying 
and what he has actually  been charged. 
Allianz say that Mr Bs premiums have been calculated  correctly for the risk presented  to 
them. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business  what  their
insurance should cost or how they should  be calculating  risk. I would be, in effect, 
determining or telling a business how they should  operate  and thats not my role. 
But I do need to be sure that Mr Bs been  treated fairly  in that hes been treated in the 
same way as any other policyholder in the same position. I know  that Mr B doesnt think  he 
has considering  his online quotes - and I can understand why he feels  that way. But having 
carefully reviewed the information Allianz  have  provided about  the way Mr Bs premiums 
have been calculated, Im satisfied  he has been  treated fairly and not singled out in any way. 
Its important to understand that its not possible to compare a new policy  being  taken out 
now (or in 2017  when I understand Mr B did his online searches), with one that was taken 
out about 10 years ago in 2010.  Thats because it will probably be underwritten differently. 
Over time a business will review and alter their pricing models and the way their new policies 
are underwritten to remain viable and competitive in the market  which they are entitled to 
do. Existing customers commonly remain on the pricing model relevant to when they took 
Ref: DRN45186852out their policy.  Allianz have shown that, for Mr Bs policy,  the way its underwritten  means 
his changes of address  wouldnt  have  affected  the premium. And this is why Mr B didnt see 
a reduction in the price following his moves. It would have been the same for any other 
policyholder who took the same policy out in 2010, with the same circumstances as Mr B.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr B. But, having looked  at everything,  I don't think 
Allianz did anything  wrong  by not reducing  Mr Bs premium when he moved addresses.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4518685