K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by post in 1999 at the same time 
as Mr P applied for the card. It gave him accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear the cover was optional  - and Mr P chose to take 
it out. I say this as Mr P indicated that he wanted PPI on his application form, signing 
by the Yes box to confirm this. The option to decline PPI was set out with equal  
prominence. I can understand he might  not remember this given how long ago the sale 
was.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt need to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr P to decide  whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind  his ability to make his credit  card repayments if he was unable to work  
or lost his job. 
 I agree its possible the information  Bank of Scotland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr P chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to 
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. 
Mr Ps representative says he didnt need  PPI as he was entitled  to six months full pay 
and six months half pay if he was off work sick, and he had £1,000 savings and some 
shares. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in addition  to his work 
benefits, and allowed  him to use his savings for other living expenses. And I wouldnt 
consider shares  to be suitable alternative protection as the value can vary - so money 
may not be available  when  needed.  So, overall, based on his circumstances and the 
terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr P wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
It follows I dont think Mr P has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
Ref: DRN45499042my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4549904