K821x#15Complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc mis sold a business 
loan and gave  poor financial advice.
Background
Mr H and Mrs H run a farming  business.  At the relevant time, they were trading as the WAJH 
partnership. 
In 2013, an opportunity arose to buy a plot of land and develop  the business.  The 
partnership had been renting the land and its business was dependent  on it. The partnership  
approached its bank for a loan but by then its bank had ceased lending  activities. Mr H and 
Mrs H were advised to speak to RBS about  a loan.
RBS wanted security for any borrowing. However,  the existing bank already had a charge 
over the partnerships properties. It was agreed, therefore, that the partnership  would borrow  
£420,000 to repay all existing  borrowing and £52,000 to buy the plot of land. RBS would 
register a charge on the partnerships properties.
The partnership expected the refinancing to complete  within a short time. It said it was told it 
would be quick. However, it took approximately eight months  for the refinancing and 
registration of the charge to be completed. At the end of this period, the partnership  said it 
was financially worse  off because of the arrangement fees, the higher than expected  legal 
fees and a higher interest rate. 
In 2014, the partnership ran into financial difficulties after a bad summer.  It asked  RBS for 
financial assistance. The relationship manager and senior relationship manager visited the 
farm to discuss how RBS might assist. RBS offered a short-term  loan with a 12 months  
repayment plan to ease the cashflow problems and a capital holiday on existing loans,  
which were placed  on an interest only payment schedule.
The partnership agreed to this, but subsequently it found that the monthly  payments were  
higher, and it couldnt keep up to date with monthly bills. This caused  problems  with local 
suppliers.
The partnership said when it became difficult to trade, it contacted RBS again, but the senior  
relationship manager had left the bank and RBS couldnt provide contact details for his 
replacement. 
In 2015, the partnership borrowed £27,000  to buy a share in land from Mr Hs sister.  In 2016, 
it borrowed £52,000 to refinance the loan taken in 2015 and to help with the day to day 
running of the farm and to sustain future profits.
However, the partnership  remained dissatisfied with the service  it had received from RBS. It 
complained that its bad advice and lack of understanding of the farming  business meant that 
it had incurred expensive  additional costs and higher interest rates. It said the impractical 
facilities which RBS provided  strangled its cashflow and severely  damaged its farming  
business. And by 2016, it said it didnt know what it was paying  each month.
The partnership raised a complaint with RBS about poor financial advice. It asked for 
financial compensation for having  to pay additional interest, fees and charges,  including the 
legal fees, and for the stress and worries caused by its financial worries.
Ref: DRN41682162RBS didnt agree that it had mis-sold any borrowing which the partnership had taken up 
since 2013. It said it considered whether lending was responsible  and held full discussions 
with the partnership about its financial situation, especially its existing borrowing and debts 
when it approached the bank in 2013  and again  in 2014. It also said the partnership received 
full support from its relationship managers  who went out to the farm to discuss its financial 
situation. It acknowledged there  had been  a temporary  hiatus when the senior relationship  
manager left, but his post was quickly filled, and the new manager sent the partnership a 
strategy letter.
Also, a relationship manager sent the partnership  a summary of all the payments when  it 
said it didnt know what it was paying each month.
The partnership wasnt happy with RBSs decision and so it asked this service to investigate.  
It has asked this service to look only at the loan for £420,000. It doesnt feel the advice 
received for this loan was correct. The partnership  told us it has no concerns about the other 
loans.
An investigator looked into the partnerships  complaint. The investigator  referred  to the 
Standards of Lending Practice. She didnt think RBS had breached  this code or industry 
standards. She said: 
the additional legal costs were  reasonable, given there was extra work to do
theres no evidence  the original  loan for £420,000  was irresponsible  it was taken 
out to refinance  the internal and external debt
theres no evidence  the relationship managers  provided  a poor service and one of 
them did have a background  in farming and had also managed some other farming 
businesses. 
However, she concluded that the refinancing shouldnt  have  taken as long as it did, even if 
there was extra work required. She recommended that RBS pay the partnership £200
for the inconvenience  caused to it by the delay.
The partnership didnt  accept  the investigators  opinion and it has asked  for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, Im afraid my review  of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
It seems  clear  from the evidence  that the partnership  was looking to expand  and develop its 
farming business. It seized on opportunities to buy land for the farm as they arose. And the 
Ref: DRN41682163partnership seems content with the loans it took out to buy new land and to assist its cash  
flow problems.
However, the partnership  feels  that the refinancing in 2013 was ill advised,  although it hasnt  
been very specific about what  should have happened instead or how it should be 
compensated. 
I need to be clear that its not my role to determine  whether the amount of £420,000, or the 
refinancing itself, was the right decision.  These  are commercial decisions for the lender to 
make against its own criteria  for assessing  risk. And I cant substitute my view for the 
decision taken by the lender. My role is to consider whether RBS followed the general 
industry guidance and principles, which  are mainly set out in the Standards  of Lending  
Practice. 
I think it did.
The Standards of Lending Practice sets out the minimum standards of good  practice  for 
lenders when dealing with small businesses.  The investigator has referred to the standards  
in her opinion,  so I wont repeat them here.  
The partnership now questions whether the £420,000 loan met its needs. Whilst I cant  
answer this question, I can see from RBS interview notes that in 2013/14 it carried out a full 
assessment of the business, with specific reference  to farming and agricultural data, and of 
the partnerships  financial commitments. I noted that it described the repayment terms on the 
existing loan as aggressive, which suggests that perhaps that loan was also creating 
financial difficulties.
Based on the interview notes, I cant say that RBS didnt provide the partnership with clear  
information about products which met its needs.  Moreover, it seems  from the documents that 
RBS asked, not unreasonably, for security  but there was already  a charge over the property 
and business.  So, there were  other  reasons for consolidating its existing debts  and 
refinancing with the loan for £420,000. 
RBS also adhered to the guidance  by setting out the monthly repayments, the interest  rate, 
the security and terms and conditions of the loan in writing in the loan agreement, which  
Mr H and Mrs H signed on 11 February 2014.
I also note that the partnership  had an accountant  and a solicitor acting for it at the time and 
so it had the opportunity to seek independent financial and legal advice. I think  the 
partnership went into the refinancing with its eyes open.
Delay
The partnership said it was told that the refinancing would be completed quickly.
The partnership wanted land held by Mr H to be transferred into joint names with Mrs H. Ive 
seen correspondence  which  shows  that the partnerships solicitor advised  RBSs solicitor 
that this was going to be more complicated than at first thought.
It seems  the land was made up of four separate plots. Only one plot was registered with the 
Land Register. The title deeds for the other  three plots were extensive  and the plans were 
unclear. The lawyers advised  having  a new plan prepared, with an application  to the Land  
Ref: DRN41682164Register for the three plots not currently in the Land  Register.  RBSs  solicitor advised that 
the proposed  date for completion  was unrealistic.
I dont consider that RBS was at fault here or that it caused the delay. However, I cant see 
any evidence that it gave the partnership  any revised timescales or kept it updated.  So, I 
think the investigators recommendation that it pay £200 for the inconvenience caused is a 
fair one.
RBS Legal fees
I sympathise with the shock  of receiving an unexpected bill for legal fees. But again, its not 
my role to determine whether the lawyers fees were excessively high. And as Ive explained 
above, there was additional work  involved in sorting  out the legal titles and registering the 
plots. So, it was only to be expected that the legal fees would increase. Besides, this wasnt 
a result of anything RBS had done.
Poor advice and lack of expertise
RBS told us that one of the relationship managers had a background in farming and had also 
managed some other farming businesses. The interview notes are also very specific  to 
farming and agriculture and are not generic. Im afraid I cant see any evidence that the bank 
didnt understand  the nature of the partnerships  business.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that RBS followed the principles set out in the 
Standards of Lending Practice. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to 
compensate the partnership  for additional  legal fees,  banking  fees charges or interest.  
However, I am asking  it to pay £200 for not keeping  the partnership up to date about the 
timescales.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr H and Mrs H. I can see from their 
correspondence that they have had some difficult and challenging years  and I have no doubt 
it has been a worrying time for them. 
I hope the reasons for my decision are clear and that their financial situation improves for 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding this complaint 
and Im asking the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay £200  to the WAJH Partnership.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4168216