K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as Egg)  mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs H bought the PPI policy when she applied  online for a credit  card in 2008.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Hs complaint upheld it. Barclays  disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
This is because I dont think that the information  Barclays gave Mrs H about the exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions was as clear as it shouldve been. 
I say this because  Mrs H wouldve needed  to scroll down onscreen through quite a 
substantial amount of small print to find the exclusion. And even if she had found it, Im not 
sure shed have appreciated how it applied to her circumstances.  
Ive carefully taken into account  that Barclays says it didnt advise Mrs H to take out PPI.
But Im not sure Mrs H wouldve wanted  to pay for this policy  if Barclays had given her 
enough information to make a proper decision about  whether PPI was right for her. Mrs H 
has conditions that she might reasonably have expected to affect her being able to work. 
And I think its realistic to expect that she mightve  been unable to work for more  than 28 
days as a result. The policy exclusion meant she wouldnt be able to claim for these 
conditions.  
On balance, I dont  think shed have taken out the policy if shed been properly informed. So 
I think Mrs H has lost out as a result of Barclays failings  in this case.
Ref: DRN43188152putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mrs H in the financial  position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. I understand that the policy is cancelled  already so:
A.Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Mrs H wouldve owed when she 
closed her credit card if the policy hadnt  been  added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between  what Mrs H owed 
when she closed the account  and what she would have owed if she hadnt  had PPI.
B.If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank  UK PLC can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.
If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Mrs H would have owed each month  
without PPI  Mrs H paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should also pay simple  interest on the extra Mrs H paid. And it should  carry on paying 
interest until the point  when Mrs H wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK PLC something on 
her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.Barclays Bank UK PLC should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A and B.
Barclays Bank UK PLC can deduct  from the redress  shown above any commission  amount 
that it has already  repaid to Mrs H that relates to this PPI sale.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mrs H as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4318815