K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about her home contents  insurer, Fairmead Insurance  Limited, in 
respect of a claim she made to it after finding leaks and water  damage in her home.
background
Mrs A owns  a flat. In late 2018 she noticed water damage. Subsequently the managing  
agents for the flat became involved, along with the buildings insurer and Mrs As home 
services insurer/maintenance cover  provider. All trying to trace and resolve the cause of the 
leak and the buildings damage, which largely  amounted to wet floor and walls.
Mrs A also contacted Fairmead  as her flooring was damaged  by the water  carpet and vinyl 
in the lounge and hallway,  and kitchen and bathroom respectively. It provides her contents 
cover, which  includes  cover for any fixtures and fittings she has installed.
Fairmead sent an assessor  to Mrs As home in early January 2019.  The report  made  
following the inspection  on 8 January noted  that there was damage to the above rooms  but 
the two bedrooms in the flat werent  damaged. It was noted that the lounge  and hallway  
carpets were  saturated. No difference was noted in the condition between  the two rooms. No 
comment or findings were  made within the report as to the underlay in these two rooms. The 
report concluded with repair  recommendations. These said the vinyl flooring, both carpets, 
and underlay in the hall needed replacing, regarding  the lounge a recommendation was 
made for the underlay to be re-used. The report also documented an estimate  for 
reinstatement which Mrs A had obtained.  This recorded that underlay needed replacing as 
the existing smelled  damp. Some photos were  also attached to the report.
The assessor also noted the leaks were  on-going. A report was made to Fairmead 
suggesting settling  in cash, with no allowance being  made for the cost of uplifting the 
damaged flooring as the assessor believed the buildings insurer  should cover that cost as 
part of the building reinstatement  work.  When Mrs A then asked Fairmead to consider lifting 
the carpets to assist  her as living with damp, smelly carpets, was causing  some discomfort to 
her and the buildings claim wasnt progressing, Fairmead said it could  but that would likely 
only cost around £60 and Mrs A would have to pay it her excess  of £500 to allow it to do 
complete work.
Mrs A felt Fairmeads reaction was unfair and she complained. But on 6 February she asked 
Fairmead to arrange  to lift the flooring. Fairmead said it would do that as a matter of urgency, 
but a week later Mrs A called back to say she hadnt  heard anything.  Internally Fairmead 
confirmed that to cover the uplift costs the original settlement figure  would have to be 
increased by around £300.
During the course of her dealing  with Fairmead,  which were mostly by email, Mrs A had 
asked Fairmead to cover various costs or work associated with the building repair,  such as 
drying the property.  Fairmead explained to Mrs A that her contends policy  wouldnt cover  that 
type of cost/work.  She also asked it, on several occasions for a copy of the flooring report.
On 22 February 2019 Fairmead issued a final response to Mrs A. It confirmed that an excess  
was payable at the beginning of any work  by it. It set put the offer for settlement and 
explained this included costs for uplifting  the damaged flooring and net of the excess.  But, 
beyond that, it didnt set out a breakdown for the cash amount offered. However,  it also gave 
Mrs A the option of paying its contractor the excess and having  the flooring  lifted,  with 
Ref: DRN43822492replacement to follow later. It confirmed  it wouldnt  cover any building repair costs.
Fairmead continued to promise  Mrs A that it would provide its flooring report to her. In
May 2019 Mrs A complained to us. She said she still hadnt  received a copy  of the promised 
report. In July 2019 Mrs A told us she was unhappy as shed been  made  aware that 
Fairmead wasnt prepared  to replace, or pay for her to replace, the underlay  in the lounge.
Mrs A also told us that Fairmead  had caused her a lot of distress  and inconvenience;  her 
home had been  cold and smelly, shed had to constantly clean to prevent mould, shed been 
unable to have  people visit. She felt Fairmeads failure to lift the flooring had compromised  
the building  insurers  work to dry the property. Mrs A said shed had extra mobile  phone  
contract costs because of all the calls shed had to make  shed gone over her free minutes 
and had to pay more to upgrade her allowance,  but also Fairmead had told her to call a 
number which cost 44p per minute.  Mrs A felt Fairmead should compensate  her.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs As complaint. She noted  that the assessor had 
recommended that the underlay  in the lounge could  be re-used and, as such, Fairmead 
could reasonably rely on that advice. She said Mrs A may have called Fairmead a lot, but it 
had been clear about its position on the claim  since  February 2019  and it would have lifted 
Mrs As flooring if asked.
Mrs A was unhappy. She said the buildings insurer had eventually cut and lifted  part of the 
carpet in the lounge  in order to help the property dry out. Mrs A provided photos showing the 
exposed underlay  was wet, and that this too had then been removed. She provided updated 
estimates for replacement  flooring from June 2019.  But in June 2020,  when  our investigator 
asked Mrs A for an update, Mrs A confirmed  that she hadnt replaced any flooring  she still 
had some carpet in the lounge, but none  in the hall, the damaged  vinyl in the kitchen was still 
in place but only half the bathroom vinyl flooring  remained.
I considered Mrs As complaint and felt that Fairmeads settlement offer was flawed; that it 
should have agreed, from the outset,  to replace the underlay in the lounge. I also felt it 
should pay £200 compensation. I issued a provisional decision to explain my views. 
Fairmead said it accepted  my findings. Mrs A welcomed  the uphold  decision but said she felt 
Fairmead should have to do more than what Id suggested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional findings were:
 
Fairmead may note that Mrs A didnt tell us of her concerns with the settlement amount until 
after its final response was issued. Strictly speaking her objection  in this respect is a 
separate complaint. But Fairmead has been  aware  of this issue  for a long while,  but hasnt 
chosen to issue  a further final response and it didnt object to our investigator  issuing  findings  
about it. And its final response  did include the settlement offer. So I think its reasonable for 
me to address Mrs As concerns about the extent of the offer within this decision, as well as 
looking at her upset suffered to date.
Ive not seen any persuasive  reasoning  that makes me think  there was a good reason for 
Fairmeads assessor to recommend that the underlay in the lounge could be re-used.
Ref: DRN43822493Particularly not when  the report indicates the damage in both areas is the same.  And also not 
when within  the same report there is evidence which suggests the underlay is 
smelling/damp. Fairmeads report takes  no account of that or makes  any comment which  
might make me think the comment by Mrs As potential contractor is likely flawed. 
Furthermore the report notes the carpets  are saturated  so the underlay trapped underneath  
the sodden carpets  is unlikely  to have been  dry.
I do note that when the claims  validation company, which Fairmead  had appointed to handle 
the claim,  sent the assessors report to Fairmead  it was sent with a covering letter.  The 
validation company didnt complete the assessment  itself  it had appointed another 
contractor to do that and it was its report (which Ive been referring to) that it attached  to its 
covering letter for Fairmeads attention. In that letter  the validation company representative 
said the underlay in the hall only was to be replaced because  this area was wetter than the 
lounge.
The validation company didnt complete the assessment. The comment is also at odds with 
the report itself which  records  both areas  as being saturated.  The validation company 
representative also doesnt account for the reported smell or likely damage  the underlay  in 
the lounge might be suffering trapped under the wet carpet.
Im satisfied that Fairmeads offer to settle the claim, without replacing or paying for Mrs A to 
replace the underlay in the lounge was unfair and unreasonable. Fairmead will have  to revise 
its offer to include underlay in this area. But I note that Mrs A hasnt  had any of her flooring 
replaced yet. So it may well be that shed like to have Fairmead now complete the work for 
her  which will include it removing the remaining  flooring.
For clarification  though, I see Mrs A has previously  asked Fairmead to replace the flooring in 
the bedrooms too, she previously had matching carpet throughout the flat. Whilst I 
understand that Mrs A may want to replace these carpets too, Fairmead isnt liable for 
paying, or even  contributing towards,  replacing the flooring in the bedrooms. The rooms are 
entirely separate from the rest of the flat, with separating  doors and door bars.  Whilst we will 
sometimes require an insurer to contribute towards replacing undamaged items  that form 
part of a matching  set, I wouldnt view carpets  of this nature to form part of a matching set. A 
matching set would  be something like a three-piece suite used  in one room  or separate but 
matching carpets  in an open-plan  area of a home.
Fairmead acting to provide replacement flooring would be subject to Mrs A paying her 
excess. I know Mrs A has said she didnt have to pay excess up front when she made a car 
insurance claim. But I can assure her that it isnt unusual for most insurers  to ask for 
payment upfront. When an insurer completes  work it cant reasonably deduct the excess  
from the work it does   or it wont be able to provide reinstatement on a like-for-like  basis. 
However, if Mrs A is finding it difficult to find the funds to cover the cost of the excess,  which 
in this case is £500, I would expect Fairmead to work with her to try and find a reasonable 
way forwards.
Im also satisfied that the policy  Mrs A has with Fairmead wouldnt cover any costs  
associated with reinstating the building, such as drying it out. Fairmead acted reasonably 
when it refused to cover  these type of costs for Mrs A, even though  the claim via the 
buildings insurer wasnt progressing as she might  have liked.
I realise this has been an awfully difficult time for Mrs A. Ive seen some of the detail shes  
shared with us about the difficulty  shes had with the other parties  involved in tracing  and 
Ref: DRN43822494repairing the leaks, and in getting that done. I have  to say, whilst  I know Fairmeads 
approach to, and at times handling of, the flooring claim, wasnt great, I dont think  it has 
caused most of the upset Mrs A has suffered.  I havent assessed what  the other  parties have 
done but I can see that, for whatever reason, resolving the leaks  and getting the property dry 
did take a long time. Even had Fairmead lifted the carpets early on that wouldnt have  
resolved the tracing issues, and even with the carpets up the property would have remained 
damp for a long time simply  because  the leaks werent resolved. The situation  would  still 
have been uncomfortable for Mrs A (perhaps more so with no flooring at all), and I think  
shed still have been reluctant to have visitors.  So I cant reasonably  blame Fairmead for all 
the distress, frustration  and inconvenience  Mrs A has suffered.
But Fairmead didnt  assist Mrs A when  she needed  it to, and it reasonably  could have done. 
It resisted being involved in uplifting  the carpets, and even once it agreed to do that work, it 
wasnt arranged. I dont  doubt this was frustrating  for Mrs A, especially given the backdrop  of 
what she perceived as a lack of assistance from the others also involved in the wider water  
leak and damage  claims.  I also fully understand why Mrs A felt unable  to accept that its 
refusal to replace the underlay in the lounge was reasonable. For these reasons I intend to 
require Fairmead to pay Mrs A £200  compensation.
I know Mrs A thinks she had call costs  for speaking to Fairmead,  and that shes  had to 
upgrade her contract. However, she would always have had to speak to Fairmead a bit to 
resolve the claim. And given what  Ive seen regarding leaks and the damage claim, it seems 
Mrs A has had to have a lot of contact with a lot of people. Fairmeads file also shows  that 
Mrs A didnt call it very often. There was a fair bit of email traffic,  and some  calls, but 
Fairmead was logging calls to her, as well her calling it. I dont think  Mrs A was caused to call 
Fairmead more because of its sometimes-poor handling of the claim. I havent seen that 
Fairmead advised Mrs A to call a 44p per minute  number  or that if it did it was 
inappropriate for it to have  done  so. Im not minded to make Fairmead reimburse or 
compensate Mrs A for any additional call or mobile contract costs shes  had.
In response Mrs A explained how this situation  had affected her, that it had been going on so 
long that shes  now had to suffer through recovering after an accident in the property without 
proper flooring and she doesnt  feel able to go and stay with others  in case another  leak 
occurs and her absence affects  her insurance cover.  Mrs A said dealing  with this claim had 
been like a merry-go-round with each party constantly blaming the other  or suggesting 
someone else was called. For everything shed been through  Mrs A asked that Fairmead be 
required to replace the flooring in the bedrooms,  waive the £500 excess, and protect her 
no-claims  bonus, plus reimburse her cost incurred for purchasing  a dehumidifier purchased 
to dry her home and a second duvet to keep  her warm.
Ive considered Mrs As request for me to make further settlement. However,  Im not 
persuaded such would be reasonable. Ive reviewed Mrs As account of what  shes  been 
through and I remain of the view that Fairmeads  actions, in the main, didnt cause the upset 
shes experienced. Im satisfied that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable to make-up  
for the role it had in the distress and inconvenience she suffered. If I were  to instead require 
it to replace the carpets in the two bedrooms  (that it otherwise has no liability for) and to 
waive the £500 excess, then I would be awarding compensation at a level that was unfair 
and unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I know Mrs A designed her home so that the different rooms had matching carpets and it will 
be disappointing for her if, once  the carpets  in the lounge and hall are replaced, they no 
longer match  the bedrooms.  But there  is no evidence that the bedroom  carpets  are 
Ref: DRN43822495damaged, the policy doesnt provide cover for replacement of undamaged  items and 
because the carpets  are in different rooms, they dont  equate  to what this service  would 
consider to be items that form part of a matching set. So Fairmead has no liability,  either 
under the policy,  or as a matter of good industry practice, to pay for, or towards, their 
replacement. 
I trust the parties can come to some  arrangement regarding the excess. But paying an 
excess and having  a claim logged against  your claim history,  thus affecting  your no claims 
bonus, are natural results of making a claim. I cant fairly make  Fairmead  waive the excess  
or protect  Mrs As no claims bonus.  If Mrs A wants it to, Fairmead could off-set  the £200 
compensation Ive awarded against the excess,  thus reducing it to £300. But that is 
something the parties will have to arrange following my final decision.  
I understand the buildings insurer, arranged by the management company for the block of 
flats, wouldnt put drying  equipment in place.  I have no idea why this might be as it was its 
responsibility to dry the flat. The carpets and flooring, which Fairmead  were  responsible  for, 
didnt need drying as they were to be replaced.  So I cant fairly  make Fairmead pay for the 
drying equipment  Mrs A purchased. I also see from Mrs As reply that the management 
company forbade her from contacting the building insurer. Again I cant  understand that  
Mrs A isnt the policyholder, but she owns a flat covered by the policy,  so she is a person for 
whose benefit  the policy was arranged.  That being the case she is certainly  entitled  to bring a 
complaint to us about the building insurer  and its actions,  should she wish to do so.
I appreciate that having only some carpet in the lounge  and none in the hallway, with the 
vinyl in the kitchen  and bathroom  partially lifted too, made the flat colder. But the flat being  
damp, due to the on-going and unresolved  leaks, would also have made  it cold. If Fairmead 
had lifted all the flooring at the outset that would have made it colder  still. And Fairnead 
couldnt have  replaced the flooring until the leaks were stopped and the building  repairs were 
completed. So again, whilst I realise Mrs A feels like she is in the middle of all this with none 
of the parties  involved taking responsibility, I dont think the flat being  so cold that she had to 
buy a second  duvet, was Fairmeads fault. Therefore, I cant  reasonably require Fairmead to 
reimburse the costs  Mrs A incurred.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to include provision for and 
fitting of underlay  in the lounge into its claim settlement   whether that is by cash  or with it 
completing the work. I also intend to require  Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A £200 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4382249