K821x#15Complaint
Mr M says J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams) irresponsibly  lent to him. Hes 
said he doesnt think that his credit  limit should  have  increased his credit limit after hed 
already had a history  of late payments. 
Background
This complaint is about a catalogue  shopping  account J D Williams  initially  provided to Mr M 
in October 2016.  Mr M was initially given a credit limit of £200.  This limit was increased 7 
times until it eventually reached  £2,000.00 in August 2018. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the limit increases from the 
first one onwards,  in July 2017, shouldnt  have been  given. J D Williams didnt respond and 
the complaint  was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could afford  to repay what he was being  lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought it J D Williams unfairly  increased            
Mr Ms credit limit from July 2017 onwards.  As J D Williams didnt respond, I dont know what 
it thinks our adjudicator got wrong.
Ref: DRN45030272Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with Mr M, 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams  should  reasonably  have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams should 
have realised that it shouldnt have increased Mr Ms credit  limit. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I also think  that this point was reached in 
July 2017. I say this because  proportionate checks,  taking  account of the missed or late 
payments, in July 2107 would have shown J D Williams  that Mr M was having difficulty 
managing his money. Mr M was in a cycle of payday lending  and was relying on further 
lending in order to repay what he already owed. So proportionate checks will have shown     
J D Williams that Mr M was already struggling  to sustainably repay what  he owed and that 
there was a significant risk increasing his credit limit in these circumstances  would lead to 
his indebtedness  increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr M lost out because J D Williams  continued to increasing Mr Ms credit limit 
from July 2017  onwards  because this unfairly prolonged Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing 
him to use credit he couldnt afford  over an extended period  of time and the interest  being  
added got him into further debt. So J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework the account to ensure that from August 2017 (the first statement month with 
the increased credit limit) onwards interest  is only charged on the first £200.00  
outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should  have been 
provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made J D Williams  should contact Mr M to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If J D Williams considers  it appropriate  to record negative information on Mr Ms 
credit file, it should backdate this to August 2017 .
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr M, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Mr Ms credit  file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. J D Williams  & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN45030273Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4503027