K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with their 
home emergency insurance claim.  My references  to RSA include its agents.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs G made  a claim on their home  emergency  policy  for a burst  
central heating pipe. They told RSA the leak was at the top of the stairs and caused damage  
to the stairs, floorboards,  carpet, ceiling and the living  room  carpet and walls.  
About two hours  after Mr Gs initial call RSA sent a plumber who said he wasnt  able to stop 
the leak as he wasnt a heating engineer. Mr G called  RSA again. He says he was cut off 
after waiting about 35 minutes. RSA then said it might not be able to send  anyone  out that 
day and offered to put the family in a hotel. Mr G declined as he didnt want  to leave the 
house with water leaking to that extent.
RSA did arrange  an engineer that day. Mr and Mrs G say the engineer arrived about 
4.30pm, with his family, and cut the pipe causing more  damage as he didnt first drain the 
system. Eventually the engineer  did a temporary  repair and said he would return  the 
following day to finish. Mr and Mrs G and their child were left for the night without heating or 
hot water  during winter.
Mr G had to arrange  to take the following day as holiday to meet RSAs engineer, meaning 
he had to cancel  his holiday on Boxing Day. As RSAs  engineer  delayed  in contacting Mr G 
he contacted his own plumber to fully repair the leak.  
Mr and Mrs G complained  to RSA. It said isolating the leak was sufficient to deal with the 
immediate emergency  which  is what the policy covered. But it acknowledged it had given 
poor service and offered £100  compensation.  RSA also said it would consider the costs  of 
Mr and Mrs Gs own plumber. 
Mr and Mrs G complained  to us. Their plumber  was a family  friend  who didnt charge them  
so they had no plumber costs. But they want more compensation for their trouble and upset. 
They say if RSAs engineer had done the job properly they wouldnt have needed to make a 
home insurance claim for the damaged carpets. The home  insurance  claim cost £350 
excess and will increase  their premiums for that policy.
Our investigator thought RSA should  pay additional compensation of £250,  so £350 in total.
RSA says £350 is too high and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  The issue I have to decide  is whether  RSAs £100 compensation 
offer is fair and reasonable, and I dont think it is. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN46063862RSA accepts it gave  poor service. It sent the wrong  type of engineer. Although it disputes its 
engineer flattened the pipe it hasnt disputed that its engineer  cut the pipe without draining  
the system which Mr and Mrs G say caused further damage.
However, Mrs Gs letter  to RSA says there was already a lot of damage,  including  to the 
carpets, when Mr G first contacted RSA. So although RSAs  engineers  poor workmanship 
probably did cause  further damage, I think its more  likely than not Mr and Mrs G would have 
made a claim on their house insurance  anyway. They still would have paid the £350  excess 
and have any increased premium. So RSA doesnt need to pay the excess or any 
compensation to reflect  any increase of premium.  I do accept that seeing  further  damage  
caused by RSAs engineer would have been  upsetting for Mr and Mrs G.
Although the policy is for home emergencies it does say:
If, following  an emergency, a permanent repair is necessary; the tradesman will carry it out 
provided it can be effected during the visit and at a similar expense.  This insurance may not 
cover the cost of full repair  or replacement, even  when it is necessary.
Ive seen what the parties say in their dispute  about who caused  the flattened pipe. I dont 
know if it was done by Mr G or RSAs  engineer.  But as RSAs  engineer  planned to return  to 
the property to do a permanent  repair that suggests he thought he should  have been able to 
do a  permanent repair at the first visit but didnt.
RSAs offer in its final response letter to consider Mr and Mrs Gs own plumber costs also 
strongly suggests RSA thought the permanent repair should have been done at the first visit, 
if its engineers work had been done properly.
Mr and Mrs G didnt have any own plumber costs.  But Mr G had to take time of work for the 
permanent repair to be done which he wouldnt have needed to do if RSAs plumber had 
completed the work on the first visit.
Mr Gs employer has confirmed to us Mr G took emergency holiday that day. I dont 
generally award the cost of the days holiday in salary but consider it part of a consumers  
overall inconvenience. In this case Mr G says the holiday meant he couldnt  take off Boxing 
Day to be with his child, which Ive no reason to doubt. That would have been very 
disappointing for the family when they had planned  to be together.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs overall distress  and inconvenience due to RSAs poor 
service, poor workmanship and the impact of Mr G having to change his holiday.  I think  our 
investigators recommendation of £350 compensation in total is at the high end of the range 
of compensation  for such matters, but not unreasonable  given the particular circumstances. 
Its not clear if RSA has already paid the £100 it offered. For the avoidance  of doubt, the 
£350 is inclusive  of the £100 offer.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs G £350 compensation in 
total for their distress and inconvenience (inclusive  of the £100 offer).
Ref: DRN46063863Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must make payment  within 28 days of us telling it 
Mr and Mrs G accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4606386