K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc failed to keep him informed of his deposit  based 
pension account.
background
In 1989 Mr J took out a retirement investment account (RIA) with Santander. This was taken 
out on a non-advised basis. He moved house  in 1999 and notified Santander of the new 
address. It failed to notify the part of the business  responsible for the RIA of this change  and 
statements were not sent to the correct address. In early 2018 it contacted Mr J at his 
correct address.
Mr J complained to Santander  and said as it had not kept him informed of this account  and 
he had forgotten  it existed. He had received investment advice from his local branch for 
many years and no one had mentioned the RIA. For the last 10 years or so he had taken 
advice from an independent financial adviser. 
Santander said Mr J had used the RIA to allow him to contract out of the State  Earnings  
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and hadnt used it for any other pension  purposes.  The 
RIA had been  active throughout the period and had earned interest  at general deposit rates. 
It said that it was only aware or Mr J seeking advice on lump  sum investments and it had no 
record of him asking for advice on pensions. 
However, it apologised for not updating  his address  for the RIA. It said this was run out of a 
separate office and the information hadnt  been  shared. It offered him £100 compensation 
for this and a further £50 because recent letters hadnt included  his full address.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He asked  Santander what  information would have been 
available to the staff at Mr Js local branch. It explained that the administration of RIAs  was 
outsourced and didnt show up on systems used by branch  staff.  It added that when Mr J 
sought investment  advice  its staff would not offer pension advice. It also said that annual 
statements would have  been sent out and Mr J should have received these for the first 10 
years before he changed address. 
The adjudicator took the view that the account  had been chosen by Mr J to benefit  from a 
government incentive.  As such  it was a non-advised deposit based  account with no 
investment element and hadnt  been  a pension scheme investment. There  was no 
investment from Mr J, but it had been  funded by government rebates to reflect the fact he 
had contracted  out of SERPS.
He noted Mr J had said that if he if he had been  aware of the account  he would have 
invested it differently  and this would have produced a better performance.  Mr J had 
suggested he be given  interest of 8% for the period the account had been open which would 
have resulted in it being worth some 10 times more that it is.
The adjudicator didnt believe the failure  of Santander to update its records  for the RIA could 
be considered  the cause  of any loss Mr J may have  suffered. He felt the compensation 
offered by Santander  was reasonable. Mr J didnt agree and referred to the FCA principles of 
business. He said it should show skill care and diligence and treat customer  fairly. It should 
Ref: DRN42442612also pay due regard  to the information needs  of customers. He said that he had been denied 
the opportunity  to reinvest the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have some sympathy with Mr J, ultimately the responsibility  for managing an account 
lies with the customer. Mr J knew he had opened  the account and I have no reason to doubt 
that statements  were  sent each year to his old address.  This means  that it is reasonable to 
conclude that he was informed about the performance of the account  for the first 10 years.
I note that the government rebates  stopped in the early 90s and the only credits thereafter 
were annual interest payments. If he had wished to reinvest the account I would have 
thought it more likely that he would have  taken this decision  within the first 10 years.
I would add that this wasnt  a pension  scheme, but a repository for the rebates given by the 
government for several years for those  who contracted out of SERPS.  Quite simply when Mr 
J decided to contract out he needed  an account  into which  the rebates would be paid.  If he 
had wished to put this money towards  a pension scheme then it was open  to him to have  
done so at the time he opened it or shortly  thereafter. 
It is regrettable that Santander didnt update all its records when Mr J told it of his new 
address and it is fair Mr J be compensated  for that error. But it doesnt follow that this can be 
said to have denied  him the reinvestment  opportunities  he claims. Nor do I think  staff at his 
local branch were at fault for not mentioning the account. I gather he had only sought advice 
on specific lump sum investments.
In conclusion it is regrettable that Mr J didnt receive statements after 10 years, but I dont  
consider that this was the cause of any possible loss of investment opportunity. 
my final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made  an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint  and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that Santander should pay £150 
assuming it hasnt already done  so. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4244261