K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited.
background
In January 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. At the point of supply the car was 5 years old with a recorded mileage of 
74,000 miles.
Approximately 2 weeks  after purchasing  the car Mr S contacted the supplying  dealer with 
some queries including  a missing service book, a chip on the windscreen, scuffing on the 
back bumper and the start/stop mode not working. Mr S also said that he had paperwork 
stating that a service  had been carried out in January 2018 prior to the point of supply but 
that the display was stating that the car was due a service each time he started the engine.
Mr S was unable to resolve  the issues with the dealership so he arranged for work to be 
carried out by a third party  garage. These works included  repairs to the turbo, the DPF, the 
EGR valve and the glow plugs.
In April 2018 Mr S had the engine carbon cleaned. The third party garage identified 
dashboard warning  lights relating to engine  over boost and the glow plug control circuit.
Mr S complained to Startline in September 2018. In response,  Startline  said that because 
the issues had been reported  outside of the first 6 months, Mr S needed  to obtain an 
independent report  to show that the faults  were  present at the point of supply.
Mr S didnt obtain an independent report but instead  provided receipts for the work hed had 
carried out on the car and a screenshot showing the warning lights  illuminated.
Startline rejected Mr Ss complaint. It said the car had passed an MOT immediately  prior to 
the point of supply and that if there had been  an issue  with the emissions this wouldve been 
identified at the MOT.
Mr S wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. He wants  50% of the 
repair costs refunded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the car was of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed spent over £1000  in repairs on a car which had been 
advertised as fully serviced.  He said he was going  to obtain a report from the mechanic who 
had carried out the work  on the car.
Mr S hasnt provided a report from a mechanic  so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43971922Because Startline  has supplied  the car under  a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable  taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. I would  expect a second  hand car, such as that supplied to Mr S, to have a 
degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied 
that there  was an inherent fault with the car as opposed to issues  caused by general wear  
and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  its presumed  that a fault which arises in the first 6 
months was present at the point of supply unless the business can show  otherwise. After  6 
months the burden  of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was 
present at the point of supply.
Mr S and Startline disagree about whether that car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  
to reach  a decision I need to look at all the available evidence and determine on the balance  
of probabilities whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not a car is of satisfactory 
quality. In this case, Mr S reported the issues to Startline outside of the first 6 moths so it 
asked him to obtain an independent report to show that the fault was present at the point of 
supply.
Mr S didnt obtain an independent report but instead  provided details of all the work hed had 
carried out on the car. Ive considered these receipts. Whilst I can see that work has been 
carried out, theres nothing to indicate why the work  was necessary or what type of fault (if 
any) was being repaired.
I can see that there are fault codes on some  of the invoices. But it isnt clear from these 
codes what the nature of the fault is. There isnt enough evidence for me to determine 
whether its a fault which was likely  to have been present at the point of supply or whether 
its an issue which developed after the point of supply as a result of general wear and tear.
Whilst I accept  that Mr S is unlikely to have spent money on the car unless  it was necessary, 
this expenditure  of itself doesnt  mean that there was an inherent  fault with the car. Older 
cars can develop wear and tear issues and require  repairs  more frequently  than new cars. 
Without clear evidence of an inherent  fault with Mr Ss car (say, for example, in the form of 
an independent engineers report), I cant safely conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Taking everything into account,  and whilst I accept that there have been some  issues  with 
the car, I havent  seen enough evidence to persuade me that the car had a fault at the point 
of supply. Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN43971923my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
 
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4397192