K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain they were mis-sold two single  life decreasing  term assurance  
policies with critical illness cover  (CIC)  by PSA Financial  Services  Limited (the business). 
They say they were advised  that if they didnt make a claim thered be a cash lump sum 
available at the end of the term. 
background
In 2012, Mrs and Mr D were advised  to take out two single life decreasing  term assurance  
policies with CIC (the policies), in respect  of their repayment mortgage, for a term of 12 
years. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
 
The recommendation was suitable for Mrs and Mr D. 
It met their need to cover their mortgage in the event of death  or critical illness. 
He found no evidence that they were advised  if they didnt make  a claim thered be a 
cash lump sum available at the end of the term.
Mrs and Mr D disagreed  with the adjudicators view. Theyve asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision. No further evidence has been  provided. 
As no agreement can be reached  the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im not 
persuaded that the policies were  mis-sold.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note 
I recognise Mrs and Mr Ds strength of feeling about  this matter.
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs and Mr D and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice. But its for me to decide,  based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more  likely than not to have happened.
Ref: DRN43283982Despite what Mrs and Mr D have said, Ive found  no evidence  to suggest they were advised 
that if they didnt  make  a claim on their policies theyd receive  a lump sum at the end of the 
term. 
Its possible that because  other options were discussed theyve become confused  over the 
advice they were given.  I note they had a joint whole of life policy  in place at the time, and 
following review the premium had gone  up to £177 so they were keen to look for alternative 
cover. Im conscious  that the whole of life policy,  unlike the term assurance polices, can 
have a surrender  value.  So, its possible theyve  confused the two products.  
Im satisfied that the policy  documentation provided  made reasonably clear the nature and 
operation of the policies, including that there was no investment element  to the policies and 
that the sum assured would decrease in line with the outstanding mortgage, provided  the 
premiums were paid up to date.  
I note that in the event of a valid claim  namely death or critical illness of Mrs D or Mr D  
within the term of the policy, the insurer would have paid out the sum equal  to the 
outstanding mortgage. So, Im unable  to say the recommendation wasnt  needed or was 
unsuitable. 
I note that two single  life policies were preferred over a joint policy  given the increase in 
premium, due to Mr Ds heath. I note he was suffering from high cholesterol at the time, 
which may explain a higher  premium than initially envisaged. Im told he no longer suffers  
from high cholesterol. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr D will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4328398