K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about the failure  by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  under her home  
emergency insurance policy to identify and remedy faults on her central heating boiler.
background
Mrs A had a home emergency insurance  policy with BGI covering her central  heating  boiler. 
At the beginning  of November 2018  she called on BGI under  her policy  because  of a fault in 
her boiler. The boiler wouldnt  come  on automatically at the set times. Instead she had to 
start it manually every time. This meant,  for example, that if she was out of the house she 
would come back to a cold house.
BGI sent an engineer. He renewed  a switch, which he said had cured the fault. A week  later 
the fault reappeared,  and BGI sent another engineer.  He said a different switch needed to 
be replaced. He returned  two days  later and fitted the new switch.  BGIs case  notes  say that 
after this the boiler was firing on demand.
Some three weeks later the fault occurred again,  and BGI sent a third engineer. He reset the 
boiler and it worked  properly. He couldnt identify what was causing the problem. A week 
later the fault occurred  again and the third engineer returned. This time he thought  a new 
circuit board might solve  the problem. If that didnt work, Mrs A might  need to buy a new 
boiler.
The third engineer returned two days later and fitted  the new circuit board. His notes say that 
after this the boiler was working properly. But after a couple of days the fault reappeared.
Mrs A complained to BGI about the failure  of its engineers to find and rectify  the fault. She 
wanted BGI to refund the annual cost of her policy - £331.52 - and then cancel it, because of 
the poor level of service  she had received.
BGI didnt  accept her complaint. It said the fault was complex  and difficult to diagnose. It 
offered to send a senior engineer to try to resolve the problem, and offered compensation of 
£150 for the inconvenience Mrs A had experienced. Mrs A didnt accept this offer and 
complained to us.
BGI told our adjudicator that Mrs As boiler was quite old, manufactured  sometime  between 
1995 and 2000. This could make repairs more  difficult to carry out. It also meant Mrs A didnt 
qualify for a free replacement boiler under her terms and conditions  if BGI couldnt repair it. 
BGI said it had been advising Mrs A since 2015  to consider replacing her boiler because  of 
its age.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt think it 
was fair to require BGI to refund the whole annual cost of the policy  because  Mrs A had 
received services under the policy.  
When Mrs A complained, BGI had offered to send a senior engineer to try to find and cure 
the fault. Mrs A had declined this offer because she was unhappy with the number of 
appointments she had already had without  the problem being solved. 
The adjudicator thought  a senior manager at BGI should have become involved sooner, and 
he should have  offered  to send senior  engineer  at an earlier stage. BGI said its normal 
Ref: DRN43602852practice was for a senior manager to become involved after more than three engineer  visits. 
If this had been done, she thought the issues with the boiler could potentially have been 
resolved, or at least  Mrs A would have  known sooner that she needed to replace her boiler.
The adjudicator recommended that BGI should now send a senior  engineer to assess      
Mrs As boiler as soon  as possible. If BGI determined the boiler  couldnt  be repaired, it 
should tell Mrs A so that she could consider replacing it. BGI should  also pay Mrs A a further 
£100, in addition to the £150 it had already offered, to compensate  Mrs A for the 
inconvenience she had suffered with the defective boiler during November and December 
2018.
BGI didnt  accept the adjudicators recommendation. It said that at no stage was Mrs A 
without heating or hot water, although  it was clear she suffered a degree of inconvenience 
because it wasnt coming on automatically.
It said intermittent faults  were very difficult to identify, and would result  in more visits 
compared to a routine breakdown. In the time from when the fault first appeared there were 
visits on four separate occasions following the fault being reported. Sometimes the boiler 
was working when the engineer arrived. And on each occasion the engineer left the boiler  
working. Because of this it wouldnt automatically show  up on BGIs systems as requiring a 
service managers attention.
Mrs A had declined a visit from a senior  engineer when this was offered. Mrs A had 
cancelled her policy some three  months ago. So BGI didnt  think  it should now provide a 
senior engineers  visit. It thought its original offer of £150 compensation was fair in view of 
the service provided  and the frustration Mrs A encountered.
The adjudicator accepted  that as the policy had been cancelled,  it was no longer appropriate  
for a senior engineer  to visit Mrs A. However  BGI had acknowledged that its usual practice  
was for a senior  manager to become involved after more than three engineer visits. So she 
still thought a senior manager should  have  become involved sooner, and that compensation 
of £250 altogether was appropriate.
As BGI didnt agree with the adjudicators view, this complaint has been  passed to me to 
issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that I have  come  to 
the same  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mrs As frustration  arose from multiple visits by three different engineers over a short  period 
for the same fault which they were unable to identify  and cure. Whether  or not BGIs systems  
were set up to pick this up, by the time the third engineer became involved I think  the 
situation should have been  obvious to him from BGIs records, and so he should have 
referred it to a senior manager.
Although Mrs A was able to start the boiler  manually, she suffered discomfort  for some time 
during a winter  period, and distress  and inconvenience because  of the multiple, and 
ultimately unsuccessful,  engineer visits. All in all, I think  £250,  inclusive of the £150 BGI has 
already offered, is appropriate compensation for this.
Ref: DRN43602853my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs A compensation of £250 (inclusive of the £150  it has already offered) as compensation 
for its poor service, and the distress  and inconvenience it caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4360285