K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible  in its lending to her.
background
Mrs M took out a loan with Barclays in January 2019 which  she applied for online.  She says 
she has a gambling  problem and that following significant losses  she applied for the £50,000 
loan. Mrs M says that the loan was too easy to take out and within minutes the money was in 
her account.  She says that she lost the money  gambling and now cant afford the 
repayments.
Mrs M says that Barclays was irresponsible lending the amount it did to her based  on her 
income and her other debts. 
Barclays says that Mrs Ms income and expenses showed she had sufficient disposable  
income to make her monthly repayments.  It says that when the loan was provided, Mrs M 
hadnt told it about her gambling and that having  reviewed her account only limited  gambling 
was found which wouldnt have been  enough to raise concerns. It didnt accept that the loan 
was provided irresponsibly.
Our investigator said that there was no evidence that Barclays was aware of Mrs Ms 
gambling when  the loan was provided.  He noted the affordability checks that were  carried  
out and thought a credit  check should  have also taken place. However he didnt find that this 
would have changed the decision  in regard to the loan.  Because  of this he didnt uphold  this 
complaint. He noted that Mrs M was now on a repayment plan which  he thought  showed  
Barclays had acted  positively and sympathetically  towards her.
Mrs M didnt  accept our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M applied for a £50,000 loan in January 2019. At this time she hadnt told Barclays that 
she had an issue with gambling. Therefore I have considered whether, based on the 
information available to Barclays at that time,  it should have been reasonably aware of 
Mrs Ms gambling problem. I have also considered if the affordability  checks were sufficient 
to ensure Mrs M could  make the repayments due in a sustainable way.
I have looked  through  Mrs Ms bank statements for the months leading up to when the loan 
was taken out. While there are records of gambling  in the months up to January 2019, these 
tend to be for small amounts and are irregular therefore I dont think  it unreasonable  that 
these didnt get raised as a concern.
The substantial amounts spent on gambling  didnt take place until shortly before the loan 
was provided. Given the timing I accept that this information wouldnt have been  available  to 
influence the decision regarding Mrs Ms loan.
Ref: DRN44795962Based on the information available, I dont think it unreasonable that when the loan was 
applied for, Barclays was unaware  of Mrs Ms issue with gambling.
The second  part of this complaint relates to whether  sufficient affordability checks were 
carried out before the loan was provided.  
In this case Mrs M had the opportunity to take out the loan through Barclays mobile banking 
application. Barclays has explained that the loan is easy to take out as this is meant to make 
things easier for customers. However it says that checks are still carried  out before  the loan 
is agreed and that the limits are based on these. 
Mrs Ms loan was automatically accepted without manual review. Barclays has explained 
that in cases such  as this, it doesnt require the customer to provide separate  income and 
expenditure information but that the assessment is based on the transactional data available 
to it and / or credit reports. It says that Mrs M had observed income of over £88,000 in the 
six months prior to the loan but it used a conservative estimate of for monthly income of 
£5,860. It says it calculated her expenditure as £2,116 leaving sufficient disposable  income 
to meet  her repayments. Barclays note that £72,200  of Mrs Ms income was from transfers 
but says that because  these were of a recurring nature it was reasonable ii included  these in 
its calculations.
I have considered the information available to Barclays. I can see that Mrs M was recording 
a high amount  of income into her account  in the months before the loan. High amounts were 
also recorded into the account  in the previous two years.  Mrs Ms account was in credit in 
the months leading up to the loan, often  with substantial balance amounts. 
Having looked  through the account  details I can see that a lot of the income has come  from 
transfers. There isnt a regular income  pattern and given this it could have been reasonable 
for Barclays to ask for more information  about  where these came from. As there  was no 
manual review it doesnt appear that these were challenged. However, I cannot say that by 
asking this question  the outcome would have changed and on balance  given the number  of 
transfers and that these  took place over an extended period,  I find it wasnt  unreasonable to 
accept that Mrs M had sufficient funds  coming  into her account  to meet  the repayments 
under the loan.
I have also considered the expenditure details recorded and can see that transfers  out of the 
account were made and that Mrs M appeared to have  disposable  income to spend  after 
paying her regular outgoings.
Barclays has said that Mrs M would have met its internal credit score and that a credit  
search would  have been carried  out. Mrs M had taken out previous loans with Barclays and I 
am not aware  of any concerns raised  in regard to these.
While I can see that Mrs Ms account  doesnt show the consistent income and expenditure 
that might  be seen in other accounts, on balance,  I do not find it unreasonable  that Barclays 
relied on the information it had and that it considered the loan affordable. 
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  evidence on this case to uphold this complaint.
Mrs M contacted Barclays about her situation  shortly after taking out the loan. At this time I 
would expect Barclays to treat Mrs M positively and sympathetically. Barclays  has explained  
that a £200 repayment  plan was put in place. Then the monthly repayment amount was 
Ref: DRN44795963increased to £250  with the repayment running  from July 2019 to May 2020. It has confirmed 
that zero interest has been applied from 8 March  2019.
I understand that Mrs M feels the money shouldnt have been  lent to her but as the money  
was provided and she had use of it I think  it fair she is required to pay this back. As zero 
interest has been applied since March, and a repayment plan has been set up, I think  
Barclays has done enough to assist Mrs M. Given  Mrs Ms situation I would expect Barclays 
to continue to treat her positively and sympathetically going forward.
I appreciate Mrs M doesnt  want her credit file affected by this situation. However, as I 
havent upheld  her complaint I do not find that I can require Barclays to do anything  different 
to its normal procedure in regard to recording information on Mrs Ms credit  file. It has 
explained that when Mrs Ms arrears  reach  six repayments a default notice will be issued 
and recorded  on her credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4479596