K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to correctly carry out reviews of their 
Lifetime Security Plan whole of life policy and they have now been asked to pay a 
substantial increase in premiums. 
background 
Mr and Mrs M were  recommended the policy in 1998 as a means  by which  to mitigate a 
potential inheritance tax liability. It provided an initial sum assured of £150,000 for monthly 
premiums of £37.50.  
The policy was reviewed  in 2007 and 2012 and Mr and Mrs M were told that no changes 
needed to be made  to the premiums or sum assured. However, this was incorrect.  The 
reviews had been carried out on the wrong  basis, an issue that came to light when the policy  
was reviewed again in 2018. 
Lloyds explained  that as a resolution  it had topped up the policy to put it in the position it 
should be in. But this required Mr and Mrs M to pay an increased  monthly  premium  of 
£127.11 per month.  Mr and Mrs M werent  happy  with the sudden large increase, so they 
complained to Lloyds.  
Lloyds felt that its offer was fair, so the matter was referred to this service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that the policy had been broadly 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M and that Lloyds proposal for addressing the error with the reviews 
was reasonable.  
The investigator explained that where a whole of life policy is recommended  for inheritance 
tax mitigation purposes, its normal for it to be set up in joint names to pay out on the event 
of the second  death as Mr and Mrs Ms had been. It was also normal  to set the policy  up on 
a standard basis  with the intention that the premiums would, presuming investment 
performance met expectations, broadly  support the sum assured for life. Again, this was the 
case for Mr and Mrs Ms policy. As such, the investigator felt the policy was suitable and 
hadnt been mis-sold.  
In respect of the incorrect policy  reviews, the investigator explained that the general 
approach of this service  where similar  mistakes had been made,  was to ask the policy 
provider to restructure the policy as it wouldve been had the reviews been carried  out 
correctly and any premium increases that had resulted had been paid.
But in this case, Lloyds explained  that if the reviews had been  carried out correctly and the 
premium increased accepted, the new premium following the 2018 review would have been 
£210.35, much higher  than the amount proposed as part of Lloyds alternative offer.  
The investigator, having analysed the calculations provided by Lloyds, was satisfied that its 
alternative approach  to compensation was fair. It allowed Mr and Mrs M to continue with the 
level of cover theyd had since the outset but for a cheaper premium than would otherwise 
have been the case. The investigator also noted that Lloyds had amended  the terms of the 
policy so that once the eldest life assured reached age 75 there would be no more policy 
reviews. 
Ref: DRN49352462In all, the investigator felt that the proposed restructuring of the policy, coupled with Lloyds 
offer of £100 for the trouble and upset caused, was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  view. They questioned how the policy had 
been set up in respect of its objective of mitigating  inheritance tax  as Mrs M had, at the 
time, had fewer assets than Mr M. They also gave some examples of lower  quotes for life 
cover that they felt suggested that Lloyds proposal was over-inflated.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion. So, the matter was referred to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come the same 
conclusions as the investor and for broadly the same reasons.  
Id say first that Im satisfied that the policy seems to have been generally suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Ms needs. As has been  noted, it was set up in the way one would  normally  expect a 
whole of life policy being used for inheritance tax mitigation to be set up. Mr and Mrs M have 
commented about how their assets were distributed  at the time of the sale,  but it wouldve 
been assumed  that assets would  have passed between them upon the first death, so it was 
correct that the policy would  pay out on the event  of the second death. 
Turning to the primary concern, the incorrect reviews, I can understand that it wouldve been 
very frustrating to have  suddenly been asked to increase the monthly premiums threefold 
after paying  the same  for 20 years. But looking at what  Lloyds  has proposed as a resolution  
to the matter, I do think its a fair offer, which potentially puts Mr and Mrs M in a better 
position than they wouldve been if the errors hadnt  occurred. 
Lloyds has confirmed that if the reviews  had been  carried out correctly then to maintain the 
£150,000 sum assured the premiums wouldve had to be increased  to around £95 in 2007,  
£99 in 2012 and £210 in 2018.  Instead  of this, Mr and Mrs M have continued to pay £37.50  
each month  for the same level of cover.  So, theyve  made a considerable saving over the 
period in question.
There is, or course, a possibility that if the reviews had been  carried  out correctly, Mr and 
Mrs M might have  opted to not maintain the policy  they may not have wanted  to pay £95 
per month in 2007. But I cant  be certain what they wouldve opted to do if that had been the 
case. There wouldve  been other  options  available to address their IHT liability,  or they could 
have looked at taking out a non-reviewable policy as an alternative. But thats likely to have 
been very expensive   considerably above the budget  they were  aiming  for at the outset.
So, given the uncertainty around what might  otherwise have happened if the reviews had
been carried out correctly, I think Lloyds methodology  for putting  things right
achieves a fair outcome for Mr and Mrs M. They still have the choice of surrendering the 
policy, taking its value  and obtaining cover elsewhere if they wish.  Or reducing  the sum 
assured on this policy to, in turn, reduce the premiums. I note what  theyve said about having 
obtained cheaper quotations for cover. But I dont know  the details of these, or whether  
theyre on a like-for-like basis. 
Ref: DRN49352463So, over all, I think the offer Lloyds has made to restructure the policy  and pay Mr and Mrs M 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused  is a fair one. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that the offer made by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4935246