K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2003. The policy  gave Mr R accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  It was taken out at the same time as Mr R applied  for an 
Egg credit card on line. Barclays has accepted responsibility for the sale of PPI and this 
complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. Mr R said, in summary,  he wasnt given any information about PPI and this 
was a quick, high speed application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The sample screenshot  Barclays has sent in, showing the information that wouldve 
been displayed  on line at the time, gives the option  to say yes or no to PPI. Eggs 
records show that Mr R selected  yes, by ticking the box on the screen indicating  he 
wanted PPI. Based  on what Ive seen, I think the options were  set out with equal  
prominence on the screen. And the wording  made  it clear that PPI was optional.  
Overall, I think Egg made it clear to Mr R the PPI was optional and he agreed to take 
it out.  
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R, so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. It was up to Mr R to decide  whether  the policy was right for him, and he wanted  
to buy it. 
But, Egg did have  to give Mr R information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
he could decide  for himself if he wanted to buy PPI. Mr R said he wasnt  given any 
information about PPI. But, I can see from the screenshots that basic  information 
about the PPI was displayed on line. 
Its possible that Egg didnt give Mr R all the information about the PPI that he 
needed before he made his decision.  For example, I think  the information about  the 
costs of the policy couldve been  clearer. But Mr R chose to take out the policy and 
so appears to have  wanted this type of cover. He wasnt  affected by any of the main  
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. The policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim, 
potentially longer than his work benefits wouldve covered  him for. He said his dad 
couldve helped out with his repayments, but help of this kind cant  always  be 
guaranteed when  the time comes, so I havent  placed much reliance on this. I think  
the PPI couldve  been useful to Mr R given  his other means. So, I think it unlikely 
Ref: DRN41006022Mr R wouldve made a different decision and not taken out the policy  if better 
information had been provided.  
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4100602