K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) 
mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a credit  card in 2003.
background
Miss O took out her credit  card and the PPI by post in 2003.
The policy cost Miss O £0.72 per every  £100  of her outstanding balance  on her credit card.  It 
would have covered 5% of that balance  if she couldnt work  because of an accident, 
sickness or if she lost her job. And on a successful claim it would have paid up to 24 months
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Os complaint should be upheld. Miss O disagreed with this 
view and asked that her complaint be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Os case.
Miss O says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. So Ive thought about 
this as American Express needed to give her a fair choice about  buying the PPI.
American Express has provided a copy of the application Miss O completed when she 
applied for the insurance. On it theres  a section which  is headed Protect your Payments. 
And I can see Miss O has ticked to enrol  for the PPI. She could  have left it blank if she didnt 
want it. And Miss O has signed the form and dated  it. I think  its likely once shed signed up 
for the PPI she would have received a welcome letter. I also think  its likely the PPI would  
have appeared  on her credit card statements. So if she didnt know she had it or didnt want 
it she could have questioned it with American  Express. I havent  seen  she has done  so. 
Overall I think  she applied  for her card and the PPI knowing she could have declined the 
insurance if she didnt  want it.
As I dont think Miss O spoke  to anyone about  the PPI, I dont think American  Express 
recommended it to her. That meant  it didnt have to make sure it was suitable for her. But it 
still needed to give her enough clear  information  so she could decide for herself  whether or 
not it was right for her.
Miss O says she wasnt given all the information  to make a fully informed decision. And it is 
possible that not all the information  was as clear as it could have been. But I dont think  
clearer or better information  would have put her off buying the policy. I say this because  
Miss O was eligible for the PPI and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - 
so it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. 
Ive thought about everything Miss O has said - including what she has said about her sick 
pay. But this policy would  have paid out in addition to and likely for longer than her sick pay 
Ref: DRN42773842would have lasted.  So I think  it would have been useful for her if things went  wrong.  So 
these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss O paid on her PPI  and whether American 
Express treated her unfairly.  
American Express has told us that the commission for Miss Os PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how American Express has been working 
this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Miss Os commission  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell her about the 
commission  so I dont  think  American  Express treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Miss O back any of the commission she paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4277384