K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt compensated him 
fairly for applying arrears  to his mortgage account  when he missed payments. Halifax has 
refunded the arrears  charges and offered £100 of compensation for upset caused.  But Mr H 
wants further compensation for the trouble, upset and financial loss the application of arrears  
charges caused  to him.
Mr H hasnt complained  to us about the amount that was refunded to him. So my decision 
determines whether  hes been properly compensated for any trouble and upset caused to 
him. 
background
Mr H held a mortgage  with Halifax which he says was redeemed in 2013  and all 
outstanding payments were cleared. In May 2017,  Mr H got in touch with Halifax.  The 
regulator had looked into whether it had treated its customers in arrears fairly in previous 
years. And Halifax was now refunding  some  of the fees it had previously applied.  Mr H had 
held a Halifax mortgage over the period of the banks review,  and hed paid arrears  fees too. 
Mr H was unhappy arrears charges of £35 had been  added to his mortgage account each 
time hed missed a payment between December  2009 and December 2013. 
As part of a review  it held,  Halifax refunded  all arrears charges that it applied  to Mr Hs 
account. It also said it refunded overpayments Mr H made to the mortgage (to try to repay 
the fees charged) and it applied interest at 8% to compensate  him for being without this 
money. So the total amount paid to Mr H was around £460.
Mr H complained to Halifax that its offer didnt go far enough. He said the arrears  fees being  
added to his account, caused  him anxiety  and to feel distressed.  Hes said they made the 
financial difficulties he was facing  at the time worse and the increased pressure caused by 
the arrears charges led him to sell his home at a loss of around £55,000 to get out of the 
situation. He said at the time, he was recovering from a serious  medical condition  and he 
also wasnt able to offset what he owed against his overdraft or current account due to the 
charges. Mr H has also told us Halifax charged  him duplicate arrears fees on a number of 
occasions which made the situation  much worse.  
Halifax said it didnt think itd done anything wrong. It maintained that the arrears  charges 
were charged in line with the terms and conditions of the account  and as they were added 
to his outstanding mortgage balance, it didnt think they affected the balance of his other 
accounts. Halifax accepted itd charged Mr H duplicate arrears fees on some occasions and 
offered him £100 to make up for this. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr H approached our service. Our investigator  didnt  
uphold the complaint. He thought Mr H had made  the decision to sell his home at a reduced 
price and he didnt  think the arrears  charges  wouldve  impacted his available  funds in other 
accounts. So he thought Halifaxs offer to put things right was fair. Our investigator accepted 
Mr H wouldve felt anxious  about  missing his mortgage payments but he thought Halifax had 
done enough to settle the matter.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  assessment. He said he didnt think  £100  fully 
compensated him for the distress and inconvenience the arrears  charges  in particular  the 
duplicate charges  caused him. The complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
Ref: DRN49521942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr H has been  through a very 
difficult time, so I appreciate him taking  the time to give us the details he has. But based  on 
what Ive seen, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax has given us its internal contact notes  and transaction history  for Mr Hs account 
between 2009  and 2013. From this information,  I can see Mr H struggled to keep up his 
mortgage repayments during this period. Mr H asked  Halifax for payment holidays on a 
number of occasions for different reasons. And during the months the payment holidays 
were applied, I cant see he was charged arrears  fees.
I can see during the dates  Mr H has highlighted to us, he was charged  a number of 
mortgage arrears fees  and there  were  around nine charges that seem to have been 
duplicated. Mr H has said its because of these charges  and the duplicate  charges in 
particular  that he felt increased anxiety and pressure to sell his home.  But from what Ive 
seen on this case, Im not persuaded by what hes said. 
I know Mr H was struggling  financially  for a number  of years.  And as a result of his missed 
payments, the arrears  on his account  mainly  built up between 2010 and 2013. When  it was 
at its highest, Mr H had around  £8,500 worth of arrears on his account from missed 
payments. This is significantly  more  than the total amount of arrears  fees Halifax refunded.
From everything Mr H has said, I can understand the stress he wouldve been under during 
this time but I think this was more likely caused  by the worry he wouldve felt in not being  
able to meet  his mortgage repayments.  I understand the additional arrears  fees wouldve 
added to this pressure. But considering the overall  financial circumstances Mr H found 
himself in  and the amount outstanding on his mortgage  Im not satisfied the arrears 
charges specifically affected his decision making  and stress in the way he says they did. I 
havent seen enough in this case to make me think if the arrears  fees hadnt  been charged,  
Mr H wouldve done anything differently when selling his property.  
Halifax has agreed to refund all arrears  fees and paid interest  at 8% simple on the fees that 
have been returned. And its given Mr H £100 to compensate him for the upset these 
charges may have  caused him. I think Halifaxs offer reasonably compensates Mr H and this 
offer is fair to settle this complaint 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4952194