K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
under his private medical insurance policy. AXA PPP declined the claim because it 
considered that Mr G was seeking  cover for treatment of a pre-existing condition.
background
In April 2017, Mr G took out the policy. The policy was subject  to a moratorium under which  
no cover  would be provided during at least the first two years  of the policy  for treatment of 
any condition which had existed in the five years before the policy  started.
Shortly after taking out the policy, Mr G made  a claim  for investigations into his prostate.  
AXA PPP agreed  to provide cover. 
In March 2018, Mr G contacted AXA PPP to say he was suffering from swollen testicles. 
AXA PPP agreed  to provide cover  for some  tests and a procedure.
In October  2018, Mr G contacted AXA PPP again to report that he was still suffering from 
swollen testicles.  AXA PPP authorised  a follow-up consultation.
Later in October  2018, Mr G contacted  AXA PPP again to seek  authorisation for a procedure 
on his swollen testicles. AXA PPP reviewed the claim and realised it had mistakenly been 
authorising the treatment  for Mr Gs swollen testicles under  the same  claim as his prostate. It 
advised Mr G that his swollen testicles should  have been dealt with as a separate claim. It 
said it couldnt authorise the procedure on his swollen testicles until it had obtained further  
information to establish whether the treatment was eligible under the terms of the policy.
AXA PPP obtained further information. It noted that Mr G had suffered from swollen testicles  
in 2013, the cause of which was suspected to be a hydrocele. It therefore refused to provide 
authorisation for the procedure which Mr G was imminently  to undergo  as it considered  his 
condition was pre-existing under the terms of the policy.
Mr G went ahead with the private  procedure. He complained to AXA PPP about its decision.
AXA PPP didnt uphold his complaint. It maintained that Mr Gs condition was pre-existing 
under the terms  of the policy and thus excluded from cover. It said it had authorised previous 
treatment of his condition in error.
Mr G was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that AXA PPP had acted fairly  in declining the claim.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  findings.  He pointed out the following the operation  he 
was found to have an epididymal  cyst rather than a hydrocele. He considered it was wrong 
for AXA PPP to say this condition  was pre-existing.
Ref: DRN41898912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover is excluded, for at least the first two years, for treatment of pre-
existing conditions. The policy defines  a pre-existing condition as follows:
any disease, illness  or injury that:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment for in the five years  before the start of 
your cover,  or
you have experiences symptoms of in the five years  before the start of your cover:
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
The evidence shows that Mr G visited his GP in 2013 complaining  of swollen  testicles. His 
GP suspected the cause was a hydrocele.  He referred  Mr G for a scan which revealed no 
significant hydroceles and that the problem in fact was an epididymal  cyst in each testicle.
Mr G visited his GP again in 2015  complaining of swollen testicles. His GP thought this was 
due to an epididymal cyst in each testicle, though he said that the problem in the left testicle 
might be a hydrocele. He again sent Mr G for a scan which again confirmed that Mr G had 
an epididymal cyst in each testicle.
On this basis, Im satisfied that Mr Gs symptoms  of swollen testicles  existed in the five years 
before the policy started.  His consultant has confirmed following the procedure  that the 
cause of these  symptoms was an epididymal  cyst and the evidence  shows  this was the 
cause of his earlier symptoms. Im therefore  satisfied it was fair for AXA PPP to decline his 
claim on the grounds that his condition was pre-existing.
I note that AXA PPP originally authorised treatment for Mr Gs swollen testicles in error. AXA 
PPP hasnt sought  to recover the cost of the treatment it wrongly  authorised. However, it 
says it wont pay for treatment which took place after it had identified its error  and had 
confirmed that the condition  was pre-existing.  I consider this to be fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4189891