K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 2003,  and alongside it a monthly  paid PPI policy. The 
PPI was taken out following a meeting with the building society. The policy  gave them 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It cost around £45 per month  after 12 months  
of free cover. It wouldve covered their mortgage repayments of around £900 per month.  The 
cover was split equally  between them and they were covered for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our adjudicators 
view and so their complaint has been  passed to me to consider. They  said, in summary, this 
was an advised  sale and the policy wasnt suitable  or necessary given their circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M referred us to an upheld case on our website.  They  thought this case  was 
very similar to theirs.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs M have said, but Ive decided  not to 
uphold their complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs M had to agree to 
take it. I cant know what was discussed at the meeting with Nationwide.  Mr and Mrs M said 
they were led to believe they would stand a better chance of getting the mortgage if they 
took PPI. Mr M said he didnt attend  the meeting, only his wife did, and she brought  home 
the paperwork for him to sign. 
Ive seen the paperwork Mr and Mrs M signed.  The mortgage application didnt cover PPI. 
They had to complete a separate  application  form to apply for PPI. The paperwork made it 
clear that PPI was an optional and separate product. I havent seen or heard  enough  to 
persuade me that more likely than not they were  told that they had to take PPI to get the 
mortgage. I think it more  likely  that they opted to take out PPI and signed the paperwork to 
say they wanted it. So, I cant fairly uphold their complaint  on this ground.
From what  Ive seen and heard, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it didnt have to check PPI 
was suitable for their needs. But, Nationwide did need to give them clear information about 
the PPI so they could decide  whether they wanted  to buy it. To avoid any doubt however, 
even if Nationwide  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy,  I cant  see that this wouldve 
been unsuitable advice. I think the policy was appropriate for them because:
Ref: DRN48583532they were eligible  for the PPI  that is, they qualified to be covered by the insurance;
Mrs M wasnt affected by the main  limitations  or exclusions  in the policy  so she couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy  offered.  Mr M had a pre-existing medical condition. 
This may not have been covered  under the policy, but given what hes said about his 
condition and its impact  on his day to day living, I think  he still wouldve  taken out the 
policy even if he had been given clearer information about the terms and conditions of 
the policy. As Mr M planned to become self-employed  not long after taking out the policy, 
Ive looked at the limitations and exclusions that applied  to self-employed people.  I cant 
see that it wouldve  been any more difficult for him to make a claim if his employment 
status changed. So, I cant see that having better information about this wouldve 
changed their decision to take out PPI;
both Mr and Mrs M were working and entitled to sick pay. The policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of their work benefits, for up to 12 months  per successful claim. So, I still think it 
couldve provided them with a useful benefit  in their circumstances,  particularly if Mr M 
expected to lose his work benefits  later on when he became self-employed.  It wouldve 
allowed them to use their work benefits  to meet other household expenses if one of them  
was out of work. Given that the policy was protecting their home, possibly their single 
largest asset, and they could make repeat claims on the policy, I think  PPI couldve 
provided them with a valuable benefit.
Ive taken into account the savings  Mr and Mrs M mentioned.  The PPI wouldve allowed 
them to use their savings  for other household expenses should one or both of them  be 
out of work. So, I cant see their other  resources made  the policy unsuitable for them.
The policy was free for the first 12 months, this may have incentivised  them  to take it out. 
But, Nationwide did tell them at the time, what the cost would be after the free period 
was up. It seems likely that they wouldve thought the cost was acceptable and 
affordable given that they signed to say they wanted PPI. It was a monthly paid policy  so 
they couldve cancelled it at any time without  losing out financially.
I dont think Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because  of anything  that Nationwide mayve done 
wrong .Ive taken into account  everything that Mr and Mrs M have said.  Ive also looked at 
the case theyve  referred  to, but this doesnt  change my view. We consider each case  on its 
own merits. I cant see that Mr and Mrs M have lost out because  of any problems with the 
sale. It follows that I dont uphold their complaint.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs M that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN48583533But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4858353