K820x#14Complaint
Ms E complains  that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aquacard) misled  her when she called to talk 
about a payment arrangement and payment  holiday last year.  Ms E says Aquacard 
incorrectly said that no adverse information  about her arrangements  would be reported  to 
the credit  reference  agencies. 
Ms E also complains that the level of interest  Aquacard charges has changed over time and 
that it doesnt give details of her interest rate on its statements. 
Background
Ms E contacted Aquacard on 7 March 2018  as she wasnt working and was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Ms E asked Aquacard  for some  help and it agreed  to accept payments 
of £1 a month for the next two months.  Ms E says she was told no adverse information 
would be reported  to the credit reference  agencies. 
On 3 May 2018  Ms E spoke with Aquacard again and agreed to extend the payment 
arrangement after an income and expenditure  assessment was completed.  
On 7 June 2018 Ms E called  Aquacard  and advised  she was working again. Aquacard  
ended the payment arrangement and put a payment holiday in place. 
Ms E complained to Aquacard and it responded on 25 March  2019. Aquacard agreed  that 
Ms E had been  given misleading  information  when she discussed the payment holiday on 
7 June 2018 and arranged to have any adverse information about it removed from her credit  
file. Aquacard also paid Ms E £20 to apologise. Aquacard  responded again on 30 April 2019,  
after Ms E made some further  points.  But it didnt agree to remove  the adverse information  it 
reported while Ms E was subject to the earlier payment arrangement. 
Ms E asked our service to look at her complaint and it was passed  to an investigator.  The 
investigator explained that Aquacard  hadnt  kept the call recordings so we werent able to 
listen to what was said in March and June 2018. But the investigator  thought  there was 
sufficient information  available  to reach a view. He didnt uphold Ms Es complaint and she 
asked to appeal.  As a result, the complaint has been  passed  to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E has made several complaints about  her account and how Aquacard  operates.  Before I 
talk about the main  issue relating to the payment arrangement, Ill give my thoughts on the 
other points  Ms E has raised. 
Ms E says that her account  hasnt been operated correctly by Aquacard  and that the interest 
rate has gone  up. But the terms  of Ms Es credit card say Aquacard can increase the interest 
rates it charges  by giving card holders  two months  warning.  Aquacard  has sent us a copy  of 
its letter to Ms E dated 18 November 2016 explaining the interest rate would go up at the 
end of January  2017. As Aquacard is allowed to increase the interest rate by giving advance 
notice I havent  found it made a mistake.
Ref: DRN41070812Ive looked at copies of Ms Es statements  and the interest is shown on page 2. Ms E says 
that the way interest and charges have been  applied to her account have caused her to go 
over the limit. But the interest and charges  Ive reviewed have all been applied  in line with 
the credit  cards terms. I havent seen anything to show Ms E has been  overcharged.  
Ms Es main complaint relates to the information  she was given in March 2018 when she 
called to let Aquacard know she wasnt working  and experiencing financial difficulties. Ms E 
says the call handler told her there would be no adverse information shown on her credit file 
as a result  of entering into a payment arrangement to pay £1. Its unfortunate the call isnt 
now available to listen to. But I dont think the absence of the call impacts the outcome of 
this complaint. 
Ms E has told us that she was experiencing financial difficulties in March  2018 which  is why 
she called  Aquacard to ask about a reduced  payment.  Aquacards  contact notes show it 
looked at Ms Es income and outgoings and agreed she couldnt afford to maintain her 
payments. As a result,  it agreed to accept payments of £1 for March and April 2018 instead  
of the minimum payment  due of around  £147. Even if I were to accept that Ms E was 
incorrectly advised that her credit  file wouldnt be affected by the payment  arrangement  Id 
have to take think about whether she would have done anything  differently if the information 
she was given had been correct. 
I think its clear  Ms E wasnt  able to make her March and April 2018 payments based on 
what she told Aquacard at the time. So even  if she had made her aware of the impact to her 
credit file, I still think Ms E would have proceeded with the payment arrangement.  It appears 
Ms Es options were limited in the short term because she wasnt  working. 
I also have to take into account  that the collections  staff at Aquacard  deal with similar 
situations everyday  and Im satisfied they would be aware details of a payment arrangement 
would be reported  on the card holders  credit file. Ms E is clear in her recollections so I can 
only assume there was a genuine misunderstanding between her and Aquacard. But, as Ive 
said above, Im satisfied Ms Es position  meant  she needed to reach an arrangement to 
reduce her outgoings  when she called on 7 March 2018. The payment arrangement  gave 
Ms E some  space  and she was able to being  making full payments again a few months  later. 
Aquacard agrees Ms E was given misleading information when she called and discussed  a 
payment holiday  on 7 June 2018 and has removed the adverse information  it reported. 
Aquacard has also paid Ms E £20 to recognise the error. Im pleased Aquacard has taken 
steps to remove the adverse information  it reported and Im satisfied the £20 it paid Ms E 
fairly reflects the impact  of the situation on her. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms E but whilst  I agree there were some mistakes,  I think  Aquacard  
has dealt with her complaint fairly.  As a result, Im not telling it to take any further  action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4107081