K822xcomplaint
Mr H complained that Gefion Insurance A/S caused delays in resolving a claim that was 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
References to Gefion within this decision include its appointed claims handlers and 
representatives. 
 
background 
Mr H took out motor insurance  with Gefion, through a broker who Ill call W, in July 2017. 
The policy automatically  renewed in July 2018.  Later  that month Mr H contacted Gefion to 
notify it hed been involved in a road traffic accident - which  he was required to do under the 
policy terms and conditions. He chose not to claim under the policy.   
In December 2018 Mr H cancelled his insurance with W. W told Mr H that hed be liable for 
the full annual premium,  and wouldnt be eligible for a pro-rata refund. It told Mr H that the 
driver of the other car involved in the accident  had registered a claim on the policy, and this 
remained unresolved.  
Mr H was unhappy and complained to Gefion and W. Gefion confirmed the third party  driver  
had registered  a claim against Mr Hs policy. It explained that it was proposing  to settle  the 
claim 50:50 as there was no reasonable prospect of it disputing liability without  CCTV or 
witness evidence. Mr H remained dissatisfied as he was under the impression that no claim 
had been made or settled. He referred his complaints  to our service for consideration. A 
complaint against  W has been considered  separately. 
On 28 May 2019 we informed Gefion that Mr H had made a complaint and asked for a copy 
of its claim file and other details to enable us to consider the complaint. We asked  that it 
respond by 11 June 2019.  
Another investigator contacted Gefion on 2 July 2019  to say wed not received  the 
information wed asked  for. The investigator  asked for a response by 8 July 2019  or hed 
assess the complaint  with the information  we had available.  
Gefion responded  explaining that its appointed representative, who Ill call C, had authority 
to respond on its behalf. Our investigator asked for Cs direct contact details, which  were  
later provided. Our investigator then contacted C, he summarised his understanding  of the 
complaint and asked  that C provide any information  it wanted  us to consider  by no later than 
12 July 2019.  
C responded later the same day questioning why a complaint had been set up against 
Gefion as it understood the complaint was against  W. The investigator explained the status  
of the complaint and why it was being raised against Gefion, and asked that the information 
wed requested  be sent by no later than 16 July 2019.   
Having received no response, our investigator  completed his review on 17 July 2019, based 
on the information wed been  provided  to date. He accepted that Gefion  was entitled to 
charge Mr H the full annual premium if it had paid a claim  under his policy, or if a claim 
remained unsettled.  But he explained  wed still expect to see it had dealt with the claim 
efficiently and professionally.  
Ref: DRN40257422In the absence of any information  from Gefion, he was unable  to conclude  it had managed 
the claim fairly or reasonably. He concluded that Gefion had given Mr H misleading 
information about what was happening  with the claim. Hed seen  evidence  provided by Mr H 
where hed been told by Gefion that it intended to settle the third party claim. But in another 
contact Gefion had questioned why W had charged him a full years premium  as no claim 
had been paid. Mr H had also later discovered  that the third party claim was valued  at less 
than £100 and so had decided to settle the claim himself. 
The investigator considered the misleading  information led to unnecessary  delays in 
resolving the third party claim. He noted  it had taken almost a year from the date of the 
incident before a conclusion could be reached. He was persuaded that had Mr H known that 
the third party  claim was low-value, hed have settled it at an earlier stage to avoid a more  
costly impact to his own insurance. He was persuaded that this delay had caused Mr H 
unnecessary trouble  and upset so asked  Gefion to pay him £200 in compensation. He asked 
Gefion to respond to confirm whether  or not it agreed with his recommendations.
The investigator chased Gefion for a response  on 25 July 2019, and asked that it respond by 
1 August 2019.  He explained that if no response  was received the case  would be passed  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
As no response was received the case was passed  to me to consider. I emailed Gefion and 
C on 8 August 2019 explaining that I was in the process of reviewing the case. I explained  
that I intended to issue  a final decision shortly  and asked that it provide anything  further  it 
wanted us to take into consideration by 15 August 2019. I explained if I didnt receive 
anything Id likely reach the same  conclusion as the investigator and would uphold  the 
complaint. 
To date Ive received no response  from either  Gefion or C. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the same reason as the investigator. 
Despite repeated requests from our service,  Gefion has failed to provide us with information 
weve asked for to properly consider this complaint. So Ive had to rely solely  on the 
information provided by Mr H. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Gefion has settled  a claim  under the policy,  and it seems from 
what Mr H has now told us that the matter has been  settled  privately.  So Ive considered 
whether Gefion managed the claim effectively  before it was resolved by Mr H. 
Mr H has shown us evidence that he was given conflicting information by Gefion about the 
status of the third party claim. He was told both that no claim had been made and that a 
claim would be settled.  
I cant see that Gefion provided Mr H with clear  information about  the claim that had been 
made, or what progress  it had made  in settling the claim. 
I appreciate Gefion isnt responsible for the information it received from the third party  
insurer, or any delays that were  caused  by the third party.  But like the investigator I consider 
Ref: DRN40257423the case could  have been resolved far sooner if Gefion  had provided  Mr H with more 
information about the claim that had been registered  on his policy.  
It appears from the available evidence that Gefion had decided  to accept partial liability by 
January 2019.  So its likely it had knowledge  of what was being claimed for at that stage. As 
the claim was still outstanding seven months later, I consider  Gefion couldve done  more to 
resolve the claim and inform Mr H about  the costs  involved to enable him to decide whether 
to bear the costs  himself. Given that the outstanding third party claim was valued at less 
than £100, and the impact on his insurance premium  was considerably more than this, 
Im satisfied that had he been fully informed at an earlier date he wouldve taken the action 
hes now taken, and settled the claim privately. 
In view of this, I agree with the investigator  that from what Ive seen Gefion has caused Mr H 
avoidable trouble and upset. It failed to communicate effectively with him. And as a result 
Mr H has spent a considerable amount of time trying to get information  on the status of the 
claim and resolve his complaint regarding his outstanding premiums. 
In the circumstances, I consider the £200 compensation recommended by the investigator 
fairly compensates Mr H for the trouble and upset  hes experienced. Mr H has accepted  this 
recommendation. As Gefion hasnt responded I have no reason to reach  a different 
conclusion.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Gefion Insurance  A/S should now pay Mr H £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4025742