K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc responded when she fell victim to a scam.
background 
In May 2017  Mrs S, who was 75 at the time,  sadly lost £5,000 as a result of a safe account 
scam.
Mrs S has told us that on 12 May 2017  she was telephoned by someone claiming to be from 
a different bank with which  she had an account.  The caller asked Mrs S whether she 
recognised a large transaction on her account with that bank - Mrs S didnt. The caller  went  
on to ask Mrs S whether  she banked anywhere  else and when Mrs S confirmed that she had 
an account with Santander, the caller told her someone from Santander would call her soon. 
Mrs S says that she received a call from someone claiming to be from Santander within  a 
couple of minutes.  Its not in dispute  that this caller  was in fact a fraudster,  so thats how Ill 
refer to him throughout this decision.  
The fraudster told Mrs S that her local branch was fraudulently  accessing  and attacking her 
account, and that she should  move her balance  to a safe holding  account, where it would  
remain for two days. The fraudster asked Mrs S whether she had any children and as Mrs S 
has three daughters  and one son, the fraudster told her that, if asked, she could tell branch 
staff she was making the payment to one of her children. But the fraudster told Mrs S not to 
tell the cashier  anything  else as the cashier  shed be dealing with might be the cashier 
committing fraud. 
Mrs S said she was a bit suspicious, and that when  she mentioned this to the fraudster he 
offered to call her mobile phone from the Santander  customer services number  the 
fraudster did so and this reassured  Mrs S that he was genuine. From this point forward  she 
found the fraudster to be absolutely convincing.
So Mrs S visited her local branch and asked to transfer £5,000  from her instant saver 
account. Mrs S says the cashier didnt ask her any questions about  the transfer  they only 
asked for her Santander bank card and her driving  licence. 
Shortly after making the payment Mrs S has told us that what had happened didnt seem 
quite right. She visited her son to tell him what had happened and then shortly afterwards 
she went back to the branch  to report that she thought  she was the victim of a scam. 
Santander contacted the recipient  bank within half an hour of the reported  fraud,  but only 
£6.14 remained in the recipient account. This was returned to Mrs S. Santander investigated  
Mrs Ss case  and because Mrs S authorised the transaction it said it wasnt  liable for any 
financial loss.
17 months later Mrs S complained about Santanders refusal to refund her what  shed lost 
through the scam. Santander investigated Mrs Ss complaint but maintained  its position that 
it hadnt done anything wrong.  It also said that when Mrs S asked to make  the payment it 
read out the following scam script to make sure she wasnt  falling victim  to a scam:
Ref: DRN43749912                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                   
                                                                                                                                   
Santander has said that despite reading this out to Mrs S, she still agreed to make  the 
payment. For this reason it said it wasnt responsible for Mrs Ss loss. 
Mrs S remained unhappy  with Santander. She was adamant Santander hadnt read out a 
scam script and told us that Santander  didnt mention the scam  script when it initially 
investigated her fraud claim. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ss complaint. He thought  it should  be upheld  
because:
Mrs S was 75 at the time of the scam  and financial abuse in the elderly  is commonly  
committed by those  close to the victim,  such as their children
The reason  for the payment  sending money to her daughter- shouldve  prompted 
additional questions  by Santander  branch staff
Had branch staff asked Mrs S more questions about the purpose  of the transfer,  Mrs 
Ss story wouldve, on balance, fallen  apart  and the scam wouldve been uncovered
The transaction was likely to be unusual (we didnt have Mrs Ss account statements 
at the time).
Santander didnt  agree with the investigators opinion.  In its submissions it said Mrs S had 
told branch staff the payment was for her daughter and that this was supported  by her 
chosen reference of mum. It said it has to trust that its customers are telling the truth,  and 
its branch staff have  to make decisions based  on the information they are given. It said Mrs 
S made a one-off  transfer and the reason  provided for the payment  paying  her daughter  
was plausible. It didnt  think there  was enough to have been  concerned  Mrs S was at risk of 
financial harm, particularly  as Mrs S proceeded to make the payment after having been read 
the scam  script.
Because Santander didnt  agree with the investigators opinion the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2019 explaining why I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint. 
In that decision  I acknowledged  that when considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I remain  of the 
view that these considerations are the relevant ones. Ive set them out below.
relevant considerations
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN43749913The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
 identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers  in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  by 
the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers  Associations  February  2016  report  
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances ) and 2010 publication 
Safeguarding vulnerable customers.  Banking best practice: advice for bank staff); 
 look to identify  and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting customers  from 
financial harm as a result of fraud or financial  abuse  Code of Practice, which a number 
of banks, including Santander, and trade associations were  involved in the development 
of); and 
 in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
Of particular relevance in this complaint is the Banking Protocol and the BBA publication 
Safeguarding vulnerable customers.  Banking best practice: advice for bank staff  (which for 
simplicity I will refer to as the BBA best practice  note), so I have set out more information 
about them  below.  
The Banking  Protocol and BBA best practice note
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading 
Standards aimed  at identifying customers who are in the process  of being defrauded and 
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds. 
                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            
 
Ref: DRN43749914                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                       
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                        
             
                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                               
The Banking Protocol  was first launched  in October  2016 and has been  fully in force 
nationwide since March  2018, but it wasnt in force in the branch where Mrs S transferred 
£5,000 until 9 October 2017  around five months after she fell victim  to the scam.  So the 
branch did not have  the pre-agreed arrangements with the Police that the Banking  Protocol 
provides.
Nevertheless, I consider  the general  principles  of the Banking Protocol  for example to look 
out for unusual and out of character transactions, to ask questions  and to escalate internally 
when in doubt, were  already good practice in May 2017 and steps  that it was open  to 
Santander to take.       
In reaching that conclusion  I am mindful  that by May 2017 those aspects of the Banking 
Protocol had been in place in parts of the country for a year and before that the BBAs best 
practice note had also highlighted the role banks staff might  play in protecting older and 
vulnerable customers.   
And whilst the Banking Protocol brought in a direct  line of contact between the branch and 
the local Police Force,  it was still open for branch staff to contact the Police  (or Trading 
Standards), as the BBA best practice  note explained.
The BBA best practice note:
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                   
                                                                                                                                            
         
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                            
                             
Ref: DRN43749915In relation to cash withdrawals, it said:
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                               
                                       
                                               
                                                                           
                   
                                                 
                                                                                                                                       
my provisional decision
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision,  I made the following 
findings:
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mrs S when she transferred £5,000  to a fraudster, or whether it should have done  more 
than it did. 
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Mrs Ss case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice Santander  should  have been  
on the look-out  for unusual and out of character transactions. I think  the request  Mrs S 
made, to transfer £5,000 out of her savings account to an account shed not previously 
transferred money  to before  was out of character and unusual  for her. I think  Santander 
ought to have considered this to be the case as well.
I say this because  having reviewed Mrs Ss statements the most shed transferred in the 
previous five months was a one-off payment of £1,000. Otherwise, in terms of expenditure, 
Mrs S had mostly used  the account for cash withdrawals and standing  order  payments of no 
more than a few hundred pounds. The payment she made to the fraudster also reduced her 
balance significantly,  leaving  only £372.75. This would further reduce to just £122.75  after a 
few days because a regular standing order of £250 was due to debit her account. Reducing  
her balance so significantly doesnt  compare with how Mrs S typically managed  her account  
balance.
Im also mindful Mrs S was in her mid-seventies at the time of the scam.  I think  this is a 
relevant factor in this particular  case because  this age profile is one that is disproportionately 
targeted by scammers. This has been recognised by the industry  for a long time, and more 
recently by the Banking Protocol and the BBAs report improving  outcomes for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances.
Im satisfied Santander branch staff ought reasonably to have kept this in their mind at the 
time Mrs S attempted to transfer £5,000 from her savings account,  though  its important to 
note that branch staff should  be on the lookout  for any unusual or out of character 
transaction  whether a customer is vulnerable or not.
Ref: DRN43749916It seems  to me that Santanders  branch staff may have recognised  the transaction  Mrs S 
was making was unusual and out of character, and that Mrs S might be at risk of financial 
harm, because it has told us it read out a scam script to Mrs S before  she made the 
payment. 
Mrs S disputes this. Shes adamant Santander  didnt read out the scam  script and has 
implied this is evidenced  by Santander not mentioning  this when it first investigated her fraud  
claim. Mrs S has also said that if Santander had read out the scam script, or asked her any 
further questions, shed  have looked  guilty because shes an honest  person.
When Santander carried out its initial investigation into the scam a few days  after the event, 
it made notes which state that the scam script was read out to Mrs S, but that she proceeded 
to make the transfer  anyway. In addition, the electronic slip from when the payment was 
processed contains the words ss, which Santander says evidences  that the cashier read 
the scam  script out to Mrs S. 
I have considered the representations of both sides carefully.  Based on the evidence  from 
the day of the scam and days that followed, I think its more  likely than not the scam  script  
was read to Mrs S. It seems likely to me that Mrs S has either forgotten  this happened 
because 17 months passed before Santander  mentioned the scam script (in its final 
response letter), or because the scam script  had little impact on her in the moment  - clearly it 
didnt break the spell.
Even though  I think its more likely  than not the scam script was read out at the time, Ive 
thought about whether, in these particular circumstances, this was enough, or whether 
Santander should fairly and reasonably have asked additional questions.
Mrs S was acting out of the belief that her money  was at risk, under the spell of the 
fraudster. As such I dont think its surprising that the reading  of a generic statement (the 
scam script),  half of which didnt relate to her situation, didnt break the spell.
Ive also thought about the reason Mrs S gave for the payment. It appears Mrs S told the 
cashier the reason for the payment was to transfer money to her daughter. Santander thinks 
this was a plausible reason for the payment. Its also said it has to trust that its customers  
are telling it the truth, and its branch staff have  to make decisions based  on the information 
they are given by customers. I dont entirely  agree with Santanders submissions here.
I consider branch staff ought fairly and reasonably to have kept in mind that customers such  
as Mrs S may have  been given a cover  story  (particularly when bearing in mind Mrs Ss age 
at the time), and generally, a fraudster would likely provide their victim with a plausible rather 
than implausible  cover story to increase their chances of receiving money. 
So while I accept the reason for the payment   transferring money to her daughter   wasnt 
completely implausible  (on the face of things), Im satisfied that Santander  ought  to have 
recognised there remained  a possibility that Mrs S mightve been providing a cover story. 
Branch staff dont  have to trust that customers are telling the truth  it is widely  accepted that 
a common feature of scam related transactions is that customers are persuaded not to tell 
the truth.  Banks recognise that and in my view should as a matter  of good practice take that 
into account when  deciding whether to take further steps before accepting a customers 
instruction to process a payment. 
Ref: DRN43749917And while I accept branch  staff do ultimately have to make decisions based  on the 
information they are given  by customers,  it is up to the branch staff to find out enough 
information about the purpose of the payment before it makes such decisions.
In this case Mrs S was making an out of character and unusual payment, and so even 
though the reason for the payment was potentially  plausible (on the face of it), for the 
reasons I have given,  I think  Santander branch staff ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
asked further  questions,  on top of the scam  script, in order  to satisfy  itself Mrs S wasnt likely 
to be at risk of financial harm in all the circumstances of the transaction. 
I do consider the level and depth of questioning ought to be proportionate to the situation. 
But in the circumstances of this case, I think Santander ought  fairly and reasonably  to have  
asked some additional questions  for example, what the payment to her daughter was for, 
and to which bank  the payment was being made   in order to challenge the purpose of the 
payment.
Ive thought carefully about what was likely to have happened had the cashier asked 
additional questions  and of course I cant know for sure. I therefore need to decide what  I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. 
Having done so, I am not persuaded its more likely than not that Mrs S would have been 
able to answer further questions plausibly and sufficiently to reassure Santander that she 
was not the victim of fraud. 
I say this because  Mrs S has told us the fraudster told her not to tell the cashier anything 
because the same cashier might be involved in fraudulently accessing her funds. All the 
scammer told Mrs S to say, if asked, was that the payment was for her daughter.  
Under these instructions, I think its more likely than not that if the cashier  had sought  to 
establish further details about the transaction and for example  asked what the payment to 
her daughter  was for, and to which bank the payment was being  made,  Mrs S would have 
had to think on her feet given she was instructed to say nothing further  and I think  she 
would have struggled to provide a more  detailed explanation. 
At this point I think its more likely than not that the cashier would have retained some  
suspicions and ought reasonably to have escalated the matter  to their manager   at which 
point, I think its more  likely than not that the scam would have come to light. In reaching that 
conclusion, I am mindful that in this particular  case,  Mrs S has told us the fraudster only told 
her the cashiers  were suspected, not the manager.  
I consider this to be a finely balanced case,  but overall Im persuaded Santander ought fairly 
and reasonably to have  done a bit more in terms of questioning Mrs S about the nature and 
purpose of the payment. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence  to suggest it asked enough 
questions at the time Mrs S requested the transfer.  I do accept, of course, that there  is a 
balance to strike, and Im not suggesting Mrs S shouldve been  subjected to an interrogation 
by branch staff.  As Ive explained, I dont think Santander needed to do much more  in this 
case, but Im persuaded an additional  question or two wouldve made  a significant 
difference, and Mrs S wouldnt have lost out to the fraudster.
responses to my provisional  decision
Santander has said it will pay Mrs S back what she lost as a result of the scam.
Ref: DRN43749918In response to my provisional decision Mrs S continues to dispute that Santanders  branch 
staff read out the scam script when she attempted  to make the payment in branch. Mrs S is 
certain this didnt happen, and if it had, alarm bells would have gone off in her head. Mrs S 
also continues to question  why Santander didnt mention the scam script when she initially 
reported the fraud; only mentioning it once  shed referred her complaint to this service.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  I remain of the view that this decision should be upheld for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, which I have reproduced above, and which now 
forms part of this final decision. 
I accept Mrs S continues to believe that Santanders branch staff didnt read her the scam 
script, but for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision, I think  its more likely than 
not the scam  script  was read out, and that Mrs S has since  forgotten (either  because of the 
time that has since passed, or because it had little impact on her). And in any event, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think Santander did enough, in this particular 
case, by reading  out the scam script ahead of processing Mrs Ss payment request.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Santander UK Plc. Im 
not persuaded it was fair or reasonable for it not to refund the losses Mrs S suffered as a 
result of the scam.
I require Santander  to:
Refund Mrs S £4,993.86 (this takes into account the amount Santander  recovered)
Pay interest on the amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the payment 
to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4374991