K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them 
a packaged bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current  Account (URCA) in 2009.  
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several potential benefits  in 
return. They think that Bank of Scotland should  refund  them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think 
that Bank  of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to them. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
their case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs B and Bank of Scotland  have told us or sent us 
about the case and Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain  why.
During the course of this complaint, Mr and Mrs B have raised quite a few points  of concern 
either with us directly  or with Bank of Scotland. Some  of these have  been  slightly  
contradictory. For example, they have said that they didnt know  they were paying  for the 
URCA, but also that Bank of Scotland told them  they werent eligible for a fee-free account. 
As Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs B quite  a long time ago, I dont find these 
contradictions surprising and I fully accept  that Mr and Mrs B have done their best to 
remember what happened. And from all the correspondence I have seen, the gist of their 
complaint seems to be very clear; they dont think that Bank  of Scotland gave them a choice 
to have a fee-free account and they didnt want, need or use the chargeable benefits which  
the URCA provided. 
On our questionnaire,  Mr and Mrs B said that Bank of Scotland  recommended  the URCA to 
them during  a meeting, whereas Bank  of Scotland has said that it sold the account to them 
on a non-advised  or information-only basis. At that time, Bank of Scotland often sold URCAs 
on this basis, where  it would tell customers about the account, but wouldnt make a personal 
recommendation. I havent seen any convincing evidence to make me think that 
Bank of Scotland did recommend the URCA to Mr and Mrs B, so I have assessed their 
complaint as a non-advised sale. This meant that Bank of Scotland  had to tell Mr and Mrs B 
about the account clearly and fairly and give them a choice about buying it, but didnt have to 
check that the account was right for their personal  circumstances.
As such a long time has passed since the meeting, neither party has been  able to send us 
any detailed notes from the time, so I cant tell for sure what  took place. Instead, I have 
Ref: DRN48522262assessed the evidence that is available to me to work out what  is most likely to have 
occurred. 
It would certainly have been unfair  of Bank of Scotland to deny Mr and Mrs B a choice about 
the URCA.  However,  I understand that prior to taking it, they had held one of 
Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts.  In 2009, such accounts were also widely  available  
from Bank of Scotlands competitors and this situation hasnt changed  significantly since  
then. Indeed, Mr and Mrs B have  mentioned  transferring  to the URCA from another bank. So 
I doubt that Bank of Scotland denied them a choice.  It seems more likely  to me that 
Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs B about  the URCA, gave  them a choice to buy it or keep a 
fee-free account,  and they decided  to buy it. 
In 2009, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, car breakdown cover,  
home emergency insurance and mobile phone  insurance. I think its highly likely that 
Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs B about  some of these benefits during  the meeting. After  
all, it was trying to sell the URCA to them and it would have been in its own interests to 
explain to them what the account could provide. I also think its highly likely  that 
Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs B about  the fee at the same time,  as it would have been 
difficult to explain how they could have these benefits for free. 
I accept that with hindsight Mr and Mrs B may no longer  think they wanted the potential 
benefits that came with the URCA,  but it seems  to me that in 2009  they may have  found  
some of them potentially  useful. For example, I understand that they travelled in Europe  from 
time-to-time and also drove a car, so they may have  been attracted  by the travel insurance 
or car breakdown cover. And packaged bank accounts like URCAs cant usually be tailored 
for precise  individual  needs, so even if Mr and Mrs B didnt want  or need all of the benefits,  I 
think it was still reasonable for Bank  of Scotland to sell the account to them.
Bank of Scotland has also sent us some information from its records  which  it says shows 
that Mr and Mrs B used, or registered  to use, the car breakdown cover, the travel  insurance 
and the home emergency insurance. I think these  records are probably accurate. 
I understand that in 2010 Mr B had a health  condition which may have restricted the extent 
to which  he could use the travel insurance from then on. However,  this was after 
Bank of Scotland had sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs B, so it doesnt mean it mis-sold the 
account in 2009. 
So in summary,  after so many years  have passed, I cant  tell if Bank  of Scotland  got 
everything right in the way it sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs B. But Im satisfied that it told 
them about  the fees they would have to pay and about benefits they could get in return; and 
I think that it gave them  a choice about buying  the URCA or having  a fee-free account. I 
dont think that Bank  of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA to Mr and Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN48522263my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about  
Bank of Scotland Plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4852226