K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  protected her from the loss of £4,000 to a 
scam.
background
Mrs B made an online payment of £4,000 on 10 October 2018 for work her son was due to 
have done at his property.  She says that she subsequently discovered shed been  scammed  
into making the payment to an unknown third-party, rather than to the account holder she 
intended.
Mrs B called HSBC to report the scam  on 15 October 2018. Ultimately, HSBC  was unable to 
recover the money from the beneficiary account. It didnt think  Mrs B had received the level 
of service she was entitled to expect when reporting  the scam  and it applied  a credit  of 
£100 to Mrs B to say sorry for this. However,  it didnt think this had made a difference to its 
ability to recover the funds, nor that it had done anything  else wrong.
Mrs B remained unhappy  and referred her complaint to this service.  Our investigator thought 
HSBC ought to have contacted Mrs B to question her about  the payment instruction  for 
£4,000 before it allowed  it through, and that if it had done so, most likely  the scam  would  
have been avoided and Mrs B wouldnt have  lost her money. So our investigator  
recommended that the complaint be upheld.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators  recommendation. And as we couldnt resolve the 
case informally, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mrs B and HSBC  my provisional decision on 26 November 2020 explaining why I was 
not intending to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Now the parties have had the opportunity to 
comment, Im now ready to explain my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  and having carefully considered what Mrs B has said in response to my 
provisional decision  Ive reached  the same conclusions as in my provisional  decision and 
for the same reasons.  Ive explained  my reasons again below with some further comment 
where I have thought  it appropriate, to address Mrs Bs response to my provisional decision.
 
I know Mrs B has been waiting for a long time and this isnt the outcome shes  been hoping 
for. I understand  why she has wanted to do all she can to try to get her money back. And I 
have no reason to doubt that Mrs B has, as she says,  been the victim  of a scam. Im really 
sorry shes lost this money. Here, however, I need  to decide whether it would be fair and 
reasonable for HSBC, in all the circumstances  of this case, to be held responsible for this 
loss. Overall, Ive decided that it wouldnt.  Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
Ref: DRN40428372codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are required to conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence  
(FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  
(Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam. This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average  
customer.
So taking all of this into account, I need  to decide if HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs B when she made the payment of £4,000  whether it should have done 
more than it did before allowing the payment through. I also need to decide  whether HSBC 
should be required to do more than its already done  in respect  of its efforts  to recover the 
funds after Mrs B reported the scam.
Ive carefully reviewed Mrs Bs bank  statements to decide whether her payment instruction of 
£4,000 ought fairly  and reasonably to have appeared unusual or uncharacteristic to HSBC  at 
the time (and therefore  whether it was a payment  instruction HSBC ought reasonably to 
have contacted Mrs B about before it allowed it through, to check she was not at risk of 
financial harm). I know that in her response  to my provisional decision Mrs B has indicated  
that she doesnt think her other accounts  (accounts the payment wasnt  made  from) should 
influence this  and I agree  so Im referring  here, and my decision has turned on, the 
actual account  Mrs B made the payment from, not any of her other accounts. 
And overall,  I dont  think the payment instruction for £4,000  reasonably would have or should 
have stood out to HSBC  as being unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. I say this 
because I can see Mrs B had previously made other  large transfers on her account: £8,500 
in February 2018,  £3,080 in March  2018, and £5,000 in September  2018.  Overall, I dont 
think I can reasonably say that the amount of the payment instruction ought to have stood 
out to HSBC as unusual  or uncharacteristic, or sufficiently so such that it ought to have 
contacted Mrs B about the transaction before allowing it through.
Ive thought about the payment instruction being  for a new payee.  But I dont think this, or 
anything else about the payment instruction, means that HSBC,  in the context of Mrs Bs 
account history, ought to have thought it suspicious or that Mrs B was at risk of financial 
harm.
Ref: DRN40428373I understand why Mrs B has said in her response to my provisional  decision that the 
payments in February 2018 and March  2018 were to herself  for an already established and 
verified payee on the banks system; that the payment in September  2018  was purely an 
internal transfer  between  her accounts within HSBC  at the same branch; and that she 
therefore believes the payment falls within the criteria set out in the BSI Code 5.3.1.
Ultimately, however, there  is a balance to be struck. Banks have obligations  to be alert to 
fraud and to act in their customers best interests. But at the same time, they cant be 
involved in every transaction. And here, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think  I 
could reasonably expect HSBC to have had concerns that Mrs B might be at risk of financial 
harm due to how unusual the transaction was. The size of the payment wasnt  sufficiently 
unusual for Mrs B and that account  for me to say HSBC should have intervened.  And I dont 
think the fact the payment was to a new payee  sufficiently tips the balance  here either. 
Ive thought about the possibility that the beneficiary  account holders name  didnt match the 
payee name Mrs B instructed. However,  at the time the payment was made, the relevant  
regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  set out that payments are sent 
according to the unique  identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the Payment  Service Regulations 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order is 
deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider involved in 
executing the payment  order  with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (Mrs B). There  was no regulatory requirement 
to check the beneficiary  name provided. So, even  if the beneficiary account holders name 
didnt match the payee name Mrs B instructed, I cant fairly say HSBC didnt follow Mrs Bs 
instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code provided, and Im 
not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary in the circumstances of this 
payment.
In these circumstances, given that there wasnt any interaction between Mrs B and HSBC as 
part of the payment instruction, I cant say that HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity  to 
unearth the scam  before  Mrs B made  the payment.
I understand Mrs B reported the scam to HSBC  on 15 October  2018.  When HSBC  became 
aware of the potential  scam on 15 October 2018,  it should have acted  quickly to try to 
recover Mrs Bs money from the beneficiary account. Generally, Id expect a bank to respond 
immediately to an allegation of this type and to promptly inform the beneficiary bank. In this 
case that didnt  happen. I know this is disappointing to Mrs B and I do empathise with the 
situation she has found herself  in. Ultimately, however, it was the fraudster that tricked Mrs 
B. And Im satisfied by the available information  that the funds Mrs B sent were  utilised  and 
spent by the payee before she reported the matter  to HSBC  and that ultimately HSBC 
wouldnt reasonably  have been able to recover the money in any event. I understand HSBC 
has paid Mrs B £100 for service issues during that time  and bearing in mind  what Ive said,  
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN40428374my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4042837