K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Zenith  Insurance  plc unfairly refused to pay her claim under her 
pet policy.
background
When Mrs W made her claim to Zenith, it said her cat had started to lose weight before the 
policy started. Mrs Ws claim  was for the costs of investigations into why her cat was losing 
weight. Given its policy excludes cover for any conditions  before the policy start date, it 
consequently said it wouldnt  pay Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W then brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator was of the view that this wasnt fair 
and thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld.
Zenith disagreed  and Mrs Ws complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019. I said the following:
Its very common  that pet policies like this one, refuse to provide any cover for any 
condition, which occurs  before the policy started  or within the first 14 days of the 
policy starting. 
Mr W first insured  her cat with Zenith  on 13 January 2018. And Im satisfied she was 
aware the policy provided no cover for pre-existing  conditions due to both the policy  
wording and the recording of the sales calls between Mrs W and Zeniths advisor.
Unfortunately, in the vet history for Mrs Ws cat, on 27 October 2017, at an annual 
booster appointment, it was noted  her cat had lost half a kilo in weight. Unfortunately,  
then in June 2018, the vet history noted her cat had lost more weight. Unhelpfully 
though, it doesnt detail  how much  more weight the cat had lost. 
And this stage, Mrs Ws vet thought more investigations should  be undertaken to try 
to establish a cause for her cats weight  loss. And Mrs Ws claim to Zenith concerns 
the costs of these  further investigations of £507.00.
 
Im not sure who completed  the claim form, as its signed by both Mr and Mrs W and 
their vet all on the same  day, namely 13 June 2018.  But on the front page in the box 
where it says First  date of illness, injury or condition either Mr or Mrs W and/or the 
vet wrote 27/10/17. 
Thats clear evidence to me, that its thought by all parties to this claim form, this cats 
illness started then. That in turn is clearly well before this policy  started. Therefore, I 
dont think Zenith did anything wrong  in refusing to pay this claim because  the illness  
or issue being claimed for started  before the policy.
Our role in this service is to see if the business  did anything wrong and on the basis  
of this claim form, I simply cant say Zenith here has done anything wrong. Whilst of 
course weight loss is a symptom of an illness, which at the time the claim was made, 
was unidentified, those symptoms appear to have started before the policy  started as 
stated by the information on the claim form. Therefore, on the face of it, that illness  
then predates  the policy start date and is clearly excluded by the policy terms.
Ref: DRN47017572Had the claim form not said the illness  started  on 27 October 2017, my decision 
might well have been different.  But in view of this evidence, I dont consider that 
Zenith did anything  wrong.
Both Zenith and Mrs W received the provisional  decision  but made no further  comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs W nor Zenith added anything further, I see no reason to change the outcome 
of my provisional decision.
my final decision
So its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701757