K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  has failed to handle her subsidence  claim 
promptly which has led to her paying more for her home insurance than she should  have.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and our investigator has set 
these out in detail previously, so I wont repeat them again  here.  Instead  Ill focus  on giving 
my reasons  for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by our investigator, Ill explain why.
UKIs handling of the subsidence claim
Subsidence claims can be complex  and often the exact cause of movement isnt 
immediately clear. This can result in a long drawn  out claims process as repairs  are carried  
out and it is confirmed the property is no longer moving. With this in mind  and considering 
the reports provided by UKI and its engineers, I dont think  it had any reason to believe that 
the previous repairs  carried out on Mrs M property would be unsuccessful. 
Its clear at each point it assessed  what it felt was the best course of action at the time and 
what would  be the most  effective solution. But there came  a point when it should have been 
clear that these attempts  hadnt been  successful and repairing the damage internally 
shouldnt have happened when monitoring of the property  would  have demonstrated it was 
still moving. And this has resulted in Mrs M being  inconvenienced to accommodate works 
taking place that havent resulted in an effective lasting  repair.  
I dont think it is fair to say that more expensive and intrusive underpinning  methods like 
piling should have been attempted sooner. UKI and its engineers took the course of action it 
thought was most suitable at the time and as Ive said above, there was no reason for it not 
to believe this would be successful. And although  it looks like this option might be needed  
now, this doesnt  mean  UKI was wrong in attempting these other solutions.
This claim  has been running for many  years and its a fair expectation that UKI should be 
doing its best to keep  Mrs M informed and updated. This hasnt always happened as it 
should have. A claims process will always involve  a level of inconvenience  and by the nature 
of subsidence  claims this will often  be significant  as the worry of this issue  not being  put 
right will clearly cause  a great deal of distress, regardless of how well the claim is handled. 
UKI has acknowledged the impact of it not always keeping Mrs M as updated as it could 
have and how this will have added to her distress and inconvenience. I think  its offer of 
£1,500 to reflect this is fair, so I dont think it needs to offer any more for this element  of Mrs 
Ms complaint.
I understand Mrs M is concerned about a potential impact on her propertys re-sale value in 
future if there  is no lasting  solution to the movement. At this point  UKI appears to have an 
agreed plan in place with its engineers on the next steps and this includes potentially  more 
extensive underpinning work. While this should resolve  matters,  we cant say for certain if 
this will be successful, or if there  will be any future  impact on Mrs Ms property value. But, if 
Ref: DRN44892752she feels following further works this is the case, this can be considered as a new complaint 
and will need to be addressed by UKI first.
How Mrs Ms policy  has been priced
It isnt the role of this service or my role to say what a business  should charge when offering 
insurance. But I can look at how UKI treated Mrs M when it has priced  her policy  and that it 
has acted fairly when doing this. 
Mrs M policy has been in place with UKI for a number of years  and she has engaged with 
her renewal price at different points over this time. And UKI has been able to apply discounts 
at some of these points  as well as making  changes to the policy  excess  to reduce the 
increasing cost of the policy.
UKI has explained the price increases on Mrs Ms policy have been driven by its view of the 
risk and how this has changed overtime. I dont think its done anything wrong here or 
treated Mrs M unfairly by doing this. 
UKI has also said the second  subsidence  claim recorded in 2018, together with it changing 
its view of the flood  risk at this time on Mrs Ms policy  resulted in the increases here.  
Businesses are entitled to and often do amended their view of risk as they learn more about 
an area or respond  to recent weather  events  and the change  in view of the flood risk is 
something UKI can do. 
But as our investigator said, I think its clear the new claim opened in 2018 is a continuation 
of the original subsidence claim  and recording this again is wrong. UKI would not have 
needed to do this if effective monitoring of its previous  works  had taken place and it realised 
the movement  was still ongoing. So it follows that its not fair that this impacts the price of 
Mrs Ms policy now. The second  claim should  also not be recorded  on any external 
underwriting databases  and classed as a continuation of the first claim. 
I agree  with the outcome  recommended by our investigator who said the following:
Remove the record of the 2018  claim from external  insurance  databases.
Recalculate the premium charged  to reflect that there has only been one continuous 
subsidence claim.
Refund any additional premium Mrs M has paid as a result  of the second claim and 
pay 8% simple interest per annum  from the date the premiums were paid to the 
settlement date.
UKI has offered  to comply with this recommendation. I think  this is a fair outcome for Mrs Ms 
complaint and wont be directing to do anything else to put things right.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im satisfied that U K Insurance Limiteds offer described  above is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020.
Ref: DRN44892753Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489275