K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr M says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent, and had he been  offered 
the policy he would have declined it. But both Capital One and Mr M agree that the PPI was 
sold via the internet. This means  Mr M wouldve been able to complete the application in his 
own space and time. Capital One says PPI was only added to Mr Ms account because  it 
was requested, and that if he hadnt  selected  it on his application it wouldnt have been 
added. 
Ive considered what weve seen of Capital  Ones internet sales  process from around the 
time, and from what weve seen the applicant wouldve had to actively select for the policy to 
be added  to their account. And Ive seen no persuasive reason to think  Mr Ms application 
process wouldve  been any different to this. Ive also seen a copy of screen shots showing a 
record of the answers Mr M gave  in his online application at the time.  These  show a Y in 
the box for PPI  indicating that Mr M answered yes to the question  about whether he 
wanted the policy. 
So on this basis, I think its more likely than not that Capital One made it clear that Mr M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if the policy was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide  if 
the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been  and Mr M feel strongly that he wasnt given enough information about the 
policy. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Mr M says he couldve relied on help from his family to keep up his repayments if he was 
suddenly out of work. But help from others  cant always be relied upon, as their 
circumstances can also change. Upon a successful  claim  the PPI wouldve paid 10% of 
Mr Ms outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 months. And I havent seen that he had any 
sick pay or any savings of his own that he couldve relied on. So I think the policy  wouldve 
Ref: DRN45192502been useful for Mr M, and I dont think better information about the cost and benefit of the 
policy wouldve made him decide not to take out the cover. 
my final decision
So for all the reasons  outlined above  I dont think  the policy was mis-sold.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4519250