K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H, their son, P, and grandson,  G, complain as directors  of Q, a limited  company, 
that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont  refund  the £20,000  they lost when they fell victim to a scam. 
Ill refer to the complainants collectively as the directors. 
 
background
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the scam occurred as follows:
Shortly after midday on 22 May 2018, Mrs H received a call from a man claiming to be from 
HSBC  but who its now accepted was a scammer. He said there had been a fraud on Qs 
account that only Mrs H could deal with. She and Mr H, who listened to some of the call and 
also spoke to the scammer,  say they were  suspicious. But the scammer called them  back  
from an HSBC number,  which reassured  them. It appears the scammer was spoofing the 
number  in other words  he was able to mimic the banks number. Mr H then had to leave 
but told Mrs H to contact their son, P. 
As requested by the scammer, Mrs H logged onto Qs online banking. She told him she had 
access to several accounts but only used one. The scammer gave her account details for a 
new payee and instructed  her to transfer £20,000 to them. He told her Qs account was 
blocked so the transaction  wouldnt go through, but she needed to follow his instructions to 
stop the fraud. Thinking  she was genuinely speaking to HSBC, Mrs H made  the transfer  
which went through around  1.07pm.   
The scammer then instructed Mrs H to make three further payments  totalling £58,700, which  
she attempted to do but they were  blocked by the bank. Mrs H says she wouldnt make  any 
payments from the other accounts she had access to, including  her own current  account, as 
no money had come  out of them  so she didnt  think theyd been affected by the alleged  
fraud. 
Mr H reports that he returned  around 1.40pm and Mrs H was still on the phone. They  
estimate the call lasted around  90 minutes. He contacted P and it was agreed  that HSBC 
(actually the scammer) would call him. Mr H also says he received a call from a woman  
claiming to be from HSBC around 2pm,  whod seemed agitated  and abruptly ended  the call 
when he said they were already speaking to HSBC.  According  to HSBCs records, it tried to 
contact P around 2.04pm  but he wasnt available, so it left a payment reference and asked 
the person who answered to have P call back as soon as possible.
As agreed,  P took a call from the scammer  who he says was very convincing  as he used 
HSBCs number and knew the account  details. P logged into Qs online banking  and saw 
four pending  transactions that he hadnt  authorised. The scammer  said these were 
fraudulent payments that he was trying  to stop.  P says he was suspicious so, afterwards,  he 
called HSBC and discovered that the scammer wasnt from the bank. HSBC  said it had been 
trying to contact the directors but couldnt get through. The contact  number it had was the 
one Mrs H had been using to speak to the scammer.
HSBC told P it had been able to stop three  of the four payments, but the first £20,000 
payment had gone through.  HSBC contacted the receiving bank, but all the funds from this 
initial payment  had already been withdrawn  by the scammer. 
Ref: DRN43083342The directors complained  to HSBC that it should  have blocked  the first payment. But HSBC 
said it wouldnt refund  this as Mrs H had authorised the payment. And its fraud detection  
system had stopped a further £58,700  (from the three later transactions) from being  sent to 
the scammers. The directors referred  the matter to our service.  Our investigator didnt think  
the initial payment  should have raised HSBCs  suspicions. And he was satisfied it acted 
reasonably to try to recover  the money and stop the later payments. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
The directors disagree with our investigators view and have requested a final decision. They  
say there  were only three  comparable payments in the previous 12 months. One was a 
recurring yearly payment;  the other was to a firm that Q regularly dealt with; and the other  
was significantly lower.  They also pointed  out that the recipient  account name  used by the 
scammer showed as Mr H  but with a typo. They think this, plus the size of the payment 
being sent to a new account, means it should  have flagged as suspicious. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear about what happened  to 
the directors  and I understand why they feel strongly about this matter.  But Im satisfied 
HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in processing  the initial payment. And Im not persuaded it 
could have reasonably done  more to recover the money. So, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  my reasoning below.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though the directors were  the victims of 
a sophisticated  scam.  Mrs H used Qs security  credentials to request the payment. So, 
although she didnt  intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations, and the terms and conditions  of the account, Q is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance.
However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time, I consider that it would have been fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams;
maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or other 
indicators that its customers  were  at risk of fraud  (amongst other  things), particularly 
given the increase  in sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent years,  which banks are 
generally more familiar  with than even commercial  customers;
taken additional  steps or made  additional checks in some circumstances  irrespective  of 
the payment channel  used  before processing a payment; or in some cases, to have 
declined to make a payment altogether in order to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud;  and
followed the Banking Protocol where  appropriate, e.g. for branch transactions.
Ref: DRN43083343Ive therefore  thought  about whether HSBC should have looked into the circumstances of the 
payment further  before  deciding whether to process  it. In order words,  whether there  were  
fraud triggers that ought reasonably to have identified the payment as being unusual or 
uncharacteristic for this customer and account  which would justify further action before 
processing, e.g. establishing contact  with the customers and asking probing questions  that 
might have revealed what was actually  happening,  etc.
To help me decide this, Ive reviewed  Qs account  in the months leading  up to the scam. 
HSBC has given me its statements dating  from October 2017. I dont think  the initial £20,000 
payment would have  reasonably struck the bank as unusual or uncharacteristic,  and 
therefore triggered alarm, in comparison with the normal account activity.  This was not an 
ordinary consumer retail  account but a commercial business account operating with an 
overdraft limit of £300,000. Prior  to the scam, Qs overdrawn  balance stood at around  
£220,000. And it was common  for high-value payments to be made and received. 
Ive considered the directors point about  the context behind some  of these payments. For 
example, its true that some of the largest  payments  including three over £30,000  went to 
the same  payee.  However, there are further payments around or over £10,000.  For example, 
there was a payment of almost £19,000 in January 2018, and a payment of almost  £13,000  
the previous month, and those recipients dont appear  again  during the period October  2017  
to May 2018. So, thinking about the overall  pattern of account use, Im not persuaded HSBC  
should have reasonably known to make enquiries  about this initial payment before 
processing it in line with its obligations  under contract and the Payment Services 
Regulations. 
Although the directors submitted that Mr H was the named  recipient  of the payment  but 
with a typo  it was neither a regulatory requirement nor standard industry practice  to 
complete confirmation of payee checks at the time of the fraud. Also, the typo in question 
was very minor (an extra letter in the title). So I dont think  this would have triggered any 
suspicions or unusual  or uncharacteristic  activity, or alerted the bank to the risk of Q falling 
victim to fraud  and scams. In the circumstances, I dont think  HSBC  breached  its legal or 
regulatory duties  towards  Q and/or its directors when processing  the first payment. 
After the initial payment  went through, the scammers convinced Mrs H to make three more 
payments totalling  £58,700. These  were  sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic to prompt 
HSBC to make further enquiries as to the risk of fraud. I consider that making a one-off 
payment to a new payee, from an operating business account, appears less suspicious than 
making repeated  large transactions to a new payee in a short  period. So, I think its 
reasonable that these further  payments triggered  HSBCs fraud prevention  checks  whereas 
the first didnt. 
As these  additional payments put HSBC on notice that a scam might be occurring,  the key 
question is whether it took reasonable steps at that point which  might  have prevented  the 
loss altogether.
Ref: DRN43083344HSBC says it tried to call the number  it had for Qs account following the later payments  
but couldnt get through. Although HSBC  hasnt been able to provide a record  confirming  
when this call was attempted, Im not persuaded  this would have made a difference. This is 
because, as the directors have acknowledged,  Mrs H was using the contact number held by 
the bank to speak to the scammer for 90 minutes   until at least 1.40pm, after which  Mr H 
spoke to the scammer. And I can see that HSBC left a message for him around 2.04pm. 
This was within an hour of the first payment  and shortly after Mrs Hs call with the scammer 
ended.
P spoke  to HSBC around 2.57pm. There was a poor connection, so it called him back  
around 3.04pm.  This call lasted around  12 minutes. It then called the receiving bank around 
3.22pm. Unfortunately,  they reported  that the transferred funds had already been withdrawn 
by the scammer.  Looking  at the records provided  by the receiving bank,  I can see the 
payment was credited to the account around 2pm  and withdrawn between 2.03 and 
2.10pm. 
This quick withdrawal  which Im afraid is a common feature of scams (for obvious  reasons) 
 occurred when  the directors were likely still speaking to the scammer,  and before they 
spoke to the bank.  And HSBC needed  confirmation that there  was in fact a scam before it 
could know whether to attempt  recovery, as it has a duty to honour legitimate authorised 
payments. It was quick to contact the receiving bank  after receiving the relevant information 
from P. Given  this, Im not persuaded it could have reasonably done more  to recover the 
money. I therefore dont  think  that the loss was caused by any wrongful acts or omissions by 
HSBC, which, in this particular case,  was powerless to stop the criminal  activity of the 
sophisticated scammers who preyed on Mrs H and her family/fellow directors.  
Overall, whilst I understand the directors upset and disappointment, Im not persuaded 
HSBC should  have identified the first payment as an unusual  or uncharacteristic fraud 
trigger. And Im satisfied it took reasonable and prompt action when it became aware of the 
scam  but couldnt prevent the transferred monies from being stolen so quickly.  For these 
reasons, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to direct  HSBC to reimburse Q for the money that 
its director authorised to be paid as a result of this cruel scam.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC  UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the directors of Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4308334