K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  TSB Bank Plcs  (TSB) management and administration  of 
their joint current  account (account).
 
background
On 17 May 2018 Mr and Mrs R discovered  that a third party had been able to access  their 
account and increase the overdraft limit on it to £4,000 (from £1,000) and withdraw 
approximately £3,800. This withdrawn sum was refunded by TSB to the account by 
22 May 2018.
Despite the quick  refund of the withdrawals  back to their account,  Mr and Mrs R remained 
unhappy. In this respect Mr and Mrs R say, amongst  other  things, that they had to spend 
tens of hours on the phone and make  a wasted 20 mile round trip to a branch. They often 
received incorrect or contradictory information  from TSB as to how a third party was able to 
successfully remove the sum of approximately £3,800 from the account  and what they could, 
or should, do to prevent a reoccurrence of the same.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that TSB should:
pay Mr and Mrs R £300 for any trouble and upset they had been caused
reduce Mr and Mrs Rs account  overdraft back to its pre 17 May 2018  limit of £1,000  
(from £4,000)
amend any adverse,  or incorrect, information  registered on Mr and Mrs Rs credit 
files as a result  of this incident, for example any reference to a £4,000 overdraft limit 
and any reference  to spending against this £4,000 limit undertaken by a third party
issue Mr and Mrs R with a written  apology for the service they were provided
TSB agreed  with the investigators  conclusions but Mr and Mrs R didnt. In summary 
Mr and Mrs R said that £300  was insufficient  compensation given:
the time they had spent on trying to sort this matter  out, including making  calls from 
abroad
the lack of TSBs security, both before and after the incident
the stress and inconvenience they suffered, including having  to get cover at work  and 
missing out on planned  leisure activities
lack of any explanation from TSB as to what security measures it has put in place to 
prevent a similar incident happening in the future
Ref: DRN41502152Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  was considered by a second investigator.  However  she wasnt  
persuaded that TSB should have to do anything beyond that recommended by the first 
investigator. And because of this the complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I can confirm that 
Ive come to the same  overall conclusion as both investigators and for broadly the same 
reasons.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
It doesnt appear Mr and Mrs R have suffered a direct financial loss as a result  of what 
happened. So what Im required to decide in this case  is what TSB should have to pay 
Mr and Mrs R for the trouble and upset this matter  has caused them.
In deciding what TSB should  have to pay Mr and Mrs R Ive had regard, amongst other 
things, to the following:
the third party  withdrawals were refunded to the account within  5 days
incidents of this nature, by definition, cause  consumers  distress and inconvenience 
regardless of how well they are handled by the business concerned
our awards are designed to compensate the consumer and not penalise  or fine the 
business
I would also add that TSBs security procedures, both before and after the incident, was/is  a 
matter for TSB and a matter that it would be neither fair nor reasonable for me to interfere 
with. I also dont think its unreasonable for TSB to decline to share details  of these 
procedures beyond what it might  have already done. 
I dont underestimate  Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling  in this matter.  But based on what 
both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied  that £300  represents a fair and reasonable 
sum for TSB to have  to pay them for the trouble and upset they have been caused by this 
matter  including for the time they say they were required  to spend on the phone, the 
wasted 20 mile round  trip to a branch and for the contradictory  information they say they 
received. 
Ref: DRN41502153my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc must,  to the extent it hasnt already done  so:
pay Mr and Mrs R £300 for the trouble and upset  they have been  caused
reduce Mr and Mrs Rs account  overdraft back to its pre 17 May 2018  limit of £1,000  
(from £4,000)
amend any adverse,  or incorrect, information  registered on Mr and Mrs Rs credit 
files as a result  of this incident, for example any reference to a £4,000 overdraft limit 
and any reference  to spending against this £4,000 limit undertaken by a third party
issue Mr and Mrs R with a written  apology for the service provided  in respect of this 
matter
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4150215