K821x#15complaint
Mr R wants Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) to correct  the inaccurate 
information he says its recorded on his credit  file. 
background
VFS said in its final response that in October  2017 a new system was installed and there 
were technical issues  which  meant  credit  reference agencies didnt receive all the 
information in time.  It was working to resolve the issues. It offered Mr R £100 for the 
inconvenience caused as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr R remained  unhappy and said VFS had got his bank details wrong and didnt correct  it as 
it said it would. And he missed some payments. This affected his credit score. As a result a 
mortgage application he made  was declined and he couldnt release some equity. He lost a 
property he wanted  to buy and the rent for letting it out. He also had to pay £129.19 a month 
more on his mortgage than he would have  had to from January to June 2018.  He wants this 
refunded, compensation including for the loss of rent and his credit  file corrected so its 
accurate. And he says VFS offer of £100 isnt enough given the amount of stress and hassle 
hes gone through.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Mr Rs financial  advisor has confirmed the reason why the mortgage application was 
declined was due to the late payments on Mr Rs credit  file. And theres no dispute 
this was direct result  of VFS error.
Mr R says VFS error  led to his mortgage application being declined, him losing  a 
property he wanted to buy, him having to make higher monthly payments on his 
mortgage for a number  of months and losing out on potential rent on the property.
Although the error has had an impact on Mr R she cant  say that VFS should have to 
compensate him for the potential  loss of rent. Even if the original mortgage 
application had been accepted theres  no guarantee Mr R wouldve been  able to buy 
the property he wanted or that he wouldve been able to secure a tenant.  But Mr R 
did have to make higher payments  for his mortgage as the application was declined.  
VFS should increase its offer of compensation as £100 doesnt reflect the trouble and 
upset Mr Rs been caused. He also had to call VFS multiple times to update  his 
account and he was told the late payments had been removed when they hadnt 
been. So, the payment of compensation should be increased to £400.  
Mr R has said he will accept the investigators view to see an end to the matter.  VFS hasnt 
responded to the view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43675042Its clear VFS didnt deal with Mr R as well as it shouldve.  Due to an error on its part some  
late payments were recorded on his credit file which clearly led to his credit score  being 
affected. His financial advisor says this led to his mortgage application being declined.
It appears VFS error  and its failure to remove the late payments from Mr Rs credit file as 
quickly as it said it would  contributed to him having  to temporarily pay a bit more for his 
mortgage than he wouldve  otherwise  done if a new one had been arranged. Mr R also says 
this led to him losing  out on buying a house  he was interested in and subsequently losing out 
on the rent from a tenant. 
There are always uncertainties involved in buying  a house and finding a tenant. So, its hard 
to say what mightve happened  if VFS hadnt  made  its mistake. For example, Mr R may not 
have successfully completed the house purchase and if he had it mayve been much later 
than he expected. Theres also no guarantee he wouldve then found a tenant. 
What is undeniable if that Mr R likely incurred some additional mortgage costs  when he 
couldnt get a new mortgage and was put to a considerable amount of distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of VFS  error and the unsatisfactory way it resolved things. I agree  
with the investigator  that all this merits an award of some  compensation. 
VFS offered £100 compensation but the investigator considered £400 was a more 
appropriate sum. Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make and 
the fact Mr R has said he will accept this sum, I think its fair and reasonable redress in this 
case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited 
should, if it hasnt  already  done so, pay Mr R £400  compensation.
VFS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr R accepts  
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year*  simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires VFS to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4367504