K820x#14complaint
Miss T says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card whilst  
shopping in a well-known retail store. Im aware Miss T has made two similar complaints to 
us about different store cards. So to be clear, this decision is about the one issued in 
December 2001.  I understand shes already had a final decision  relating to the other  card.
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken  out in the shop and added  after Miss T signed  an application form, most 
probably at the counter. Miss T says she doesnt remember  agreeing  to the PPI or it being 
discussed. She says she didnt need the PPI either  and just signed where indicated.
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Miss T disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Id like to say that I certainly  dont doubt that Miss Ts recollections of being mis-sold the PPI 
are honest  and genuine. However, I was sent a copy of the application form Miss T used to 
get her card.  There  was a section on the form about  PPI and Miss T signed her name  at that 
point asking for the cover, as well as further down, to accept the credit terms.
I can certainly see ways in which this form could have been made clearer.  And I note what 
Miss T says about it being indicated on the form where to sign.  Nevertheless I also see that 
it was stated that she should only sign if she wanted  the cover  and it also said she would be 
debited monthly for it. So whilst more could have been explained, I think she would have 
been able see the consequences  of signing this part of the application form.
I also see that Miss T did eventually get charged  quite a few times, over several months, for 
PPI. I think  her monthly statements would have  shown  these up and if she hadnt  wanted the 
cover, I think she would have been  prompted to ask about the costs.
So Im afraid  I think these things, taken  together, make me think its more likely Miss T 
agreed to add the PPI policy to her store card, back in 2001 and she kept it on the card for a 
few years after that.
My experience is that FICL provided  a non-advised  sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear  information for Miss T to decide for herself whether she wanted  the 
cover. As Ive said, more clarity could have been provided but there were still certain 
explanations given of the form. FICL  says there  would have also been some terms and 
Ref: DRN40836362conditions attached to the application leaflet if Miss T had wanted  to read these. I accept  she 
probably didnt  feel able to do this at the time.
Miss T was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended  
to see in some of these  policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively  expensive,  but 
the benefits the policy offered gave  more protection than most credit cards. For example, if 
shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her 
outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work or until all the balance  
was returned to zero. These  benefits  wouldve been in addition  to any other means Miss T 
had in place at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that could have been of use in her situation. 
For me to uphold Miss Ts complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt  
given an option  or couldnt see she had PPI. The evidence points the other way. So I cant 
safely say this policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4083636