K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim in September 2018  for three diamond  rings which  Mrs P owned. 
Mrs P says she removed the rings  from her fingers  following an injury  to her hand.  She says 
she may have thrown them away in some tissue.
CIS declined  the claim as it said the policy didnt provide  cover  for accidental loss.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought 
the claim for accidental loss wasnt covered  under the policy as Mr and Mrs P didnt take out 
optional accidental loss cover. 
Mr and Mrs P then explained that they thought the rings may have been stolen. CIS 
reviewed this but explained that it wouldnt consider the claim any further. CIS explained that 
with any theft case  it would expect its policyholders  to report  this to the police at the first 
opportunity but Mr and Mrs P hadnt provided evidence  of this. CIS also raised concerns that 
Mr and Mrs P had waited more than four months  after the initial  loss to explain that the rings 
were possibly stolen.  
Our investigator also considered whether CIS had acted  fairly in not considering  the claim 
further. He said that the terms and conditions of their policy make it clear that policyholders 
must make CIS and the local police  aware  at the earliest opportunity of any suspected  theft. 
And as Mr and Mrs P didnt do this he thought  CIS had acted fairly.
 
Mr and Mrs P remained unsatisfied  and so their complaint  has been referred to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. I understand this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs P but 
Ill explain  my reasons why.
CIS policy terms explains that: 
11. Accidental loss or accidental damage  to your contents (optional  cover)
Please note this is an optional  cover. Your Schedule will show whether you have selected 
this cover and it will be titled Essential with Full Accidental Damage.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy schedule  lists all of the available levels  of cover.  Essential cover  has 
a tick next to it to show this was taken, whereas Essential with full accidental damage  
cover has an x next to it to show that this wasnt taken out.
Ref: DRN49560412Having seen CIS claims notes, its clear  that Mr and Mrs P said that the rings  had been  lost 
and not stolen when they notified CIS of the claim.  The claims notes explain that Mrs Ps 
hand had become swollen  following her shutting her hand in a car door. And so she 
removed the rings from her fingers. She applied a lot of hand cream  and used tissue  to dry 
her hands  and so she thought she may have thrown  the rings away with the tissue.
CIS reviewed what Mr and Mrs P said and declined  the claim due to it being accidental loss. 
I think it was fair for CIS to decline the claim on this basis as the circumstances provided by 
Mr and Mrs P suggested that the rings were  accidentally  lost and not stolen. The policy 
terms make  it clear  that accidental loss wouldnt be covered unless optional cover was taken 
out. And as Mr and Mrs P didnt take out this additional cover,  I think it was fair for CIS to 
decline the claim for accidental loss.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P later explained that the rings could have been stolen. 
However, I dont think CIS has acted  unfairly  in not considering the claim further.
Although the policy does  provide cover  for theft or attempted theft, there was an 
expectation that Mr and Mrs P make  CIS and the police aware of any suspected theft at the 
earliest opportunity  but I dont think they did this. 
CIS policy terms explains that: 
When you know  you may have to claim under this policy, you must:
tell us at your earliest opportunity;
tell the local police  at your earliest opportunity after you become aware  that 
something is lost or if you suspect theft, attempted theft or malicious damage,  and 
keep a note of any reference  number  given to you;
Mr and Mrs P didnt  make CIS aware  of the suspected theft until over four months after 
initially making a claim on the policy. Ive also not been provided with any evidence  to show  
that Mr and Mrs P have been in contact with the police.
So taking this all into account,  I also dont think CIS has acted unfairly in not considering Mr 
and Mrs Ps claim any further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
John Norton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4956041