K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993 alongside a mortgage.  Miss C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss C says it wasnt made clear  the PPI policy was optional. She says she was told 
everything was compulsory apart from critical illness cover,  which she declined.  HSBC says 
it was its policy to inform  consumers of the optional nature of the PPI policy. HSBC no longer 
has any of the documents from the time of the sale. I dont think this is unreasonable 
considering the sale was over 25 years ago. Where  theres a disagreement  over what 
happened I have  to consider everything available to determine what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  in the circumstances. 
The PPI policy was sold in a meeting alongside the mortgage. Its not possible for me to 
know exactly what was said at the time. And Miss C hasnt gone into much detail about the 
sale itself, which is understandable considering the amount of time thats passed. In order for 
me to agree with Miss C, Id have to think it was more likely that HSBC deliberately told  
Miss C the policy was compulsory when it wasnt.  While this is possible,  I dont  think  that its 
more likely. In the absence of any evidence showing otherwise, I think its more likely that 
HSBC followed its normal process  and explained  the PPI was optional before gaining      
Miss Cs consent for it to be taken out.
Neither party knows if the policy was recommended or not to Miss C. Ive thought about this 
and it doesnt  make a difference  to the outcome of the complaint either  way. As HSBC had 
to do more to make  sure the PPI was right for Miss C if it did recommend the policy to her, 
Ive assessed  the case  as if a recommendation was made.
HSBC had to check  that the PPI was right for Miss C. Miss C cant  remember where she 
was working at the time. She thinks she may have  been self-employed but cant  be sure.  
And looking at the relevant policy document, it wouldve been more  difficult for Miss C to 
make a claim if she was self-employed. As there  are no documents from the time of the sale, 
I dont know what kind of employment Miss C had. In the absence of any evidence  showing 
her employment, and with Miss C being unsure, I cant safely say its more  likely the policy  
was unsuitable  for Miss C. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems more likely  it would  have  been useful for her if something  went  wrong. The policy 
couldve covered  her for up to 12 months  per claim if she was too ill to work, had an accident 
or was made redundant. So I dont  think better  information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN47768942I appreciate Miss C has said her Dad couldve helped her if she was unable to keep up with 
her repayments. And while I dont  doubt he wouldve wanted to assist  her, support from 
other cant be guaranteed throughout the life of the mortgage  as other peoples 
circumstances can also suddenly change.
Miss C has pointed out that she received  a refund of her PPI premiums  on a separate  credit 
card. So she asked why we werent telling HSBC to refund this policy in full. I understand 
why shes asked this. Its because we look at each  case on its individual merits. And theres 
a lot of things that affect whether PPI was mis-sold,  like what type of policy it was, what  it 
was covering, when  it was sold, the sales process at the time, and so on. I explained above  
why I thought that, in this particular case, its most  likely  that this policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So HSBC doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss C paid for it. But HSBC has already offered to give Miss C back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
HSBC will make arrangements to pay Miss C now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4776894