K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Zopa Limited irresponsibly approved a loan of £10,000 to him in 
August 2015 which it ought to have known would be unaffordable for him. He seeks  a refund 
of interest on the loan and of charges that may have been  applied for missed  or late 
payments.
background
One of our investigators  considered the matter and concluded that it should not be upheld,  
for the following main  reasons:
Zopas checks prior to approving  the loan were sufficient and proportionate.
The checks included confirmation in Mr Rs credit report that he had around £26,000 
in unsecured debts  (based on three credit cards and two unsecured loans)  but his 
payments were up to date.
Despite living within his overdraft  Mr R had disposable  monthly  income of around  
£1,400.
There is evidence that Zopa  declined loan applications previously made by Mr R 
because they did not meet its lending criteria  mainly in relation to his salary  level.  
His January 2015 application was declined and at the time his annual  salary was 
around £54,000. However,  when his August 2015  application was accepted his 
salary had increased to around £72,000.
The purpose for the August 2015 loan was stated as debt consolidation.
The investigator was not persuaded that Zopa  should have  identified  the gambling 
addiction that Mr R says he had (and says it should have identified). The bank  
statement provided to Zopa as part of the loan application showed £490  in gambling 
transactions but as this was a small percentage of his salary  it would have  been  
insufficient to suggest  a gambling  addiction. Zopa has also confirmed that Mr R never 
informed it about having a gambling addiction.
Mr R disagreed with this outcome. In the main, he said:
The fact that his credit report at the time showed  he had not missed a payment on his 
existing debts did not mean he could afford  to take on additional debt.
The investigator misinterpreted his status with regards to disposable income.  The 
fact that he was living within his overdraft every  month meant his disposable income 
was zero and that he was living  on an interest  bearing debt in its own right (that is, 
the overdraft). In this context, Zopas  awareness of his gambling transactions ought  
to have alerted  it to an affordability  problem. The £490 in gambling transactions  
amounted to 13.5% of his net monthly income, which  was not insignificant.
Zopa has displayed  inconsistency by declining seven loan applications  from him 
between 2010  and January 2015 based on salaries  (and loan to salary  ratios) that 
were not markedly different from what he was earning by (and the loan to salary  ratio 
in) August  2015. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47032992Guidance, on responsible  and irresponsible lending, from the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT)  
prior to Mr Rs loan in 2015  exists in its publication on the matter  in 2010 (updated in 2011).  
In summary  and with regards to the assessment of affordability, the OFT guidance says a 
borrower focused test applies  whereby the creditor firm assesses the borrowers ability  to 
undertake the credit  commitment  in a sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring  
(further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse  consequences .
The regulators rule(s) on the matter,  under  the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
includes CONC 5.2A 12R. The creditor firm is required to consider the customers ability  to 
make repayments as they fall due over the life of the credit  agreement,  the source from 
which such repayments would be made  and the customers  ability  to make  such repayments  
without having  to borrow, without failing to make any other credit repayments and without 
such repayments having a significant  adverse  impact on the customers financial situation.
In Mr Rs case and in summary, I consider that Zopa was obliged to ensure, from its 
assessment of his August 2015 loan application, that he had a source from which 
repayments could  be maintained/sustained over the foreseeable future and that those 
repayments would not adversely affect  him (for instance, in terms of additional indebtedness 
or other credit repayment problems). Overall and on balance, I consider that Zopas 
assessment of Mr Rs loan application reasonably established both of these and I am not 
persuaded by his assertion that its approval of the loan was irresponsible.
I understand Mr Rs point about  his monthly disposable income.  His overdraft was indeed a 
debt in its own right. However, the point  is more about the monthly income  of around £1,400 
that remained after his monthly outgoings and about  the debt consolidation purpose he 
stated for the loan.  The former conveyed the message that he had spare  capacity (of 
£1,400) from his monthly salary  albeit that, after receipt of his salary, this existed  within his 
overdraft  so it arguably stood as a source from which to make repayments.  I have not seen 
evidence that his overdraft or employment was under immediate or foreseeable threat at the 
time, so this spare capacity could arguably  have been viewed as a source from which he 
could make loan repayments  over the foreseeable future.
In addition, there is evidence that the purpose  stated for the loan was debt consolidation. 
Zopa has said it took this into consideration at the time of assessing the loan application. 
This would have been a reasonable basis to expect and foresee that some of Mr Rs other 
debts  potentially  including his overdraft  would be cleared by the loan, thereby reducing  
his responsibility  in that respect and perhaps  improving his prospect of maintaining the loan 
repayments for the foreseeable future  without  adverse effects on him.
Furthermore, there is no dispute that Mr Rs credit report  at the time was positive with 
regards to him having not missed repayments on his existing debts. He says this did not 
mean he could afford to undertake additional  debt, but it also did not mean he could not 
afford to undertake  additional debt. At the time,  it would have indicated  that he had a good 
history of maintaining  debt repayments,  which could suggest  so long as affordability was 
not a foreseeable issue  that he would do the same  with a new debt. I do not consider it 
was unreasonable for Zopa  to draw such a conclusion in this respect. Mr R has referred to a 
previous loan he had taken from Zopa which he successfully repaid, so that too would have 
lent itself to such a conclusion.
I have not seen evidence that Mr R informed  Zopa  about a gambling  addiction or that it was 
aware of such a problem.  I am also not persuaded that it ought reasonably to have 
Ref: DRN47032993suspected such  a problem from information  about £490 in gambling transactions within his 
bank statement. It would  have been aware  of the transactions  but that is not the same as 
being aware of the possibility or probability  of a gambling addiction  problem  and the size of 
the transactions would  not have  readily  suggested such a problem.
I do not consider  that I have enough  evidence about  the assessments applied  to the seven 
previous, and rejected, loan applications  Mr R has referred to. In the main, available 
evidence relates  to the loan that is the subject of the present complaint and it includes 
information about a notable increase (by almost £20,000) in his salary  (which rose to around 
£72,000) by the time of the loan application  in August 2015 and this too could reasonably 
have lent itself to the conclusion  that the £10,000  loan (for the purpose of debt consolidation) 
was affordable for him.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that there  is a basis  to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4703299