K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Miss W says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to her with a credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint about the policy  
being mis-sold shouldnt  be upheld. However,  Lloyds has already paid Miss W some  money  
for the commission it received from the sale. Miss W still thinks the policy was mis-sold  in the 
first place and so has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint about  being mis-sold the 
PPI.
Miss W says she wasnt told enough about  the PPI. Lloyds told us Miss W took out her card 
account in 1999, which is obviously now over 19 years ago. 
I was sent a copy of Miss Ws credit  card application form. And I can see this did contain the 
option for her to either  agree to  or reject   PPI with her new credit card. Miss W ticked  the 
yes option and left the no option blank and she signed the form. So I think Miss W must 
have known she had a choice and this evidence shows she wanted to have the PPI.
Lloyds concedes it recommended the PPI cover with the credit  card.  So this means it was 
under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Miss Ws situation. I looked at her age, 
job, health and general circumstances to help me decide  about this. 
I think that Miss W was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  she would have been caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The cost was around  £0.77 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Miss Ws card.  Ive seen  nothing  that suggests 
she would  have found these monthly charges unaffordable.
Miss W told us she already had some  sickness protection with her job but I think  it would  
have been quite moderate.  Nevertheless,  Ive thought carefully  about her circumstances and 
any means she might have had at that time. But I havent seen anything that necessarily 
means the PPI wasnt suitable to Miss W. In the event of a successful claim for example, she 
wouldve been able to have her outstanding balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 
12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means she already had 
in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was probably suitable for her.
Lloyds also had to give Miss W clear information. After  such  a long time I cant confirm she 
was told everything she shouldve been  told. But I can see the cost was set out on the form, 
next to where  she was given the choice  about  having PPI.
Ref: DRN48924762For me to uphold this mis-sale complaint, Id need to think  it was more  likely that Miss W 
didnt consent  to the policy or there were other serious flaws  in the way the policy was sold.  
I simply dont  have  that evidence. On balance, I think she agreed to and wanted the policy.
Lloyds has already paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - it should  have told Miss W about that. Because Lloyds didnt,  that 
was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has already  paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid her for the commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4892476