K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has closed his credit card account,  because the 
country he lives in is no longer supported by it. 
background
Mr H opened a Barclaycard account while he was living overseas. He still lives overseas, but 
he now finds that Barclaycard has changed  its policy on which  countries its customers can 
live in, so it will no longer  allow him to have a card. It gave him about three months notice 
that it was going to close his account. 
Mr H said that he also had an international account  with Barclays,  and he wanted the people 
who manage that account for him to engage with Barclaycard to change this policy  about  
where its credit card account holders can live. He said he wanted his Barclaycard service to 
continue. He thought  that Barclays should pay him compensation of £1,000 for the time hed 
spent on this issue, and it should be penalised  by having to pay a donation  to charity.
Barclaycard said that it had a list of supported countries, and the place where Mr H was 
living wasnt  on that list. It had taken a business  decision to stop providing a service  to him, 
as he wasnt living in a supported country. Barclaycard said that it had given him notice of 
this, and followed its own terms and conditions. It appreciated that its decision would be 
disappointing to Mr H but it said it wouldnt keep his account open. And it didnt think  it had 
done anything  wrong, so it didnt think it should  have to pay him any compensation. 
Mr H said that he thought that Barclays  should  either have kept this account open  for him, or 
it shouldve tried to mitigate the effect  this would have on this by supplying an alternative 
product. And he wanted to know why Barclays had made this decision.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that this product was offered by 
Barclaycard, so hed looked at what Barclaycard had done.  
Our adjudicator said that he understood that it wad frustrating for Mr H to find that Barclays  
was closing his account because of the country he lived in, when  he was still living in the 
same country as when  he opened  his account. But our adjudicator said that Barclaycard had 
changed its policy on which countries it would accept customers  from. Our service wouldnt 
normally interfere with that sort of internal policy. Barclaycard had given Mr H sufficient 
notice of the change. 
Our adjudicator said that this wasnt the only way that Mr H had to access  his account, and a 
bank isnt obliged  to offer an alternative  product to mitigate  the loss of one it has closed. He 
also said that Barclaycard  is allowed to decide  whether it wants  to continue  to offer banking 
facilities to a customer, in the same way as customers can decide themselves  where  they 
want to bank. Our adjudicator said that he didnt  think Barclaycard had to do any more. 
Mr H still thought that this complaint shouldve been dealt with by Barclays,  not by 
Barclaycard. And he didnt agree  with our adjudicator. He wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN46546232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  as our 
adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Barclays divides its service provision  into separate areas, which include international 
accounts, and a credit card division. Mr H wanted the team  that provides him with an 
international account to persuade the credit card division  that it should  continue  to provide 
services to him. But his contract for a Barclaycard account is with Barclays  Bank UK PLC, 
and is managed by Barclaycard. I dont think that this complaint,  about  closing that account,  
has been set up against the wrong  organisation. 
Like our adjudicator, I can appreciate how frustrating it must be for Mr H to find that 
Barclaycard is closing his account. He hasnt moved  since it was opened, but Barclaycard 
has just changed  its policy  on which customers it will offer accounts to. It will no longer offer 
accounts to those living outside  a list of supported countries. Mr H wants to know  why that 
is. But Im sorry  to have to tell Mr H that Barclaycard  doesnt have to give him a reason for 
that. Its entitled to set its own policy on which  countries it will accept customers from. Its up 
to the bank to assess that, and take its own decision. 
Barclaycard is also allowed to change its mind about this, as it has done  here.  It can 
withdraw the service  it offers to Mr H, for this reason, as long as it does  so in line with the 
terms of his account. And I think that Mr H has been  given sufficient notice of this change.  
So I dont  think that Barclaycard has to keep this account open for him. And I dont think  that 
it has to provide an alternative  service, or compensation, because  its closing  the account. 
I understand that Mr H does have other  ways  to access the funds in his international account  
held with the bank. I appreciate that this might be less convenient for Mr H, perhaps  
significantly so, but Im afraid that doesnt  change my view on this complaint. 
I realise that Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654623