K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants  £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
background
Mr L hit a deer whilst  driving.  He made  it back to his accommodation but then found that his 
car was undriveable. Mr L was unhappy  with how Ageas dealt with his claim:  he thought it 
should have given him better information during  the claim; he thought  his policy  covered 
getting him home immediately; he was unhappy  that it took so long for Ageas to recover his 
car and provide him with a courtesy car. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  it likely 
that Ageas gave  Mr L correct information  about  repairing his car himself  when  he first logged 
the claim.  This was because his excess was high and the described damage seemed small. 
He thought Ageas had limited options  for Mr Ls recovery. He thought  Ageas hadnt  
managed Mr Ls expectations  with his recovery home and hadnt  provided a courtesy car 
soon enough.  But he thought its offer of £150  compensation  for his inconvenience fairly  
redressed this. 
Mr L thought Ageas  should pay for his return home. The investigator thought the policy didnt 
cover this. But Ageas had paid for these  costs in any case  and he thought it had tried to 
assist Mr L in arranging  his trip home,  albeit without  success. He thought Ageas had 
compensated Mr L for the errors in the handling of his claim. He thought it didnt need to do 
anything further.  
Mr L replied that he disagreed that Ageas had helped him to get home. He thought it was 
wrong for Ageas to tell him initially not to make a claim based on his non-expert  description 
of the damage  caused. He said Ageas was awaiting a recovery  plan and that could have 
been put in place sooner.  He thought  Ageas should  pay him £300  compensation. He asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that, apart from the spoilt holiday, this has been a frustrating experience for Mr L. I 
can see that he feels that he was mis-advised and that hes disappointed  with the level of 
service provided by Ageas. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  
Mr L said he was first advised by Ageas not to make a claim but to deal with the repairs  
himself. He used his breakdown cover and the engineer said that the repair would take a 
long time.  Mr L then called Ageas again and he said the agent said he should have made a 
claim in the first call. 
Ref: DRN47938702As Mr L is aware, the first call isnt available for me to listen to. Ageas has provided evidence 
that they have  looked  for it, though without success. However, like the investigator, I think  its 
likely that Mr L described  the damage he saw and the agent thought  repairing  this might be 
less than the £675 policy excess. In which case, Mr L would be better  off not making a claim.  
As it turned out, with advice from the breakdown engineer, it was found that this would take 
longer to repair. And so Mr L made his claim,  losing  a day in his recovery.
I can understand Mr Ls annoyance, but I dont  think the first agent  acted  unreasonably  
based on the likely information provided by Mr L and the amount of his policy excess. If Mr L 
disagreed, he could have pressed to make  a claim. When more information was provided 
about the damage, his claim was accepted.  So I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably.
I can see that Ageas didnt manage Mr Ls expectations with the recovery  of his car to a 
garage near him home. This was 672 miles, at a busy  time of year when  the recovery 
company prioritised other services, and so it took seven days. I think this was a long time to 
recover his car. But I cant hold Ageas entirely responsible  for this. 
This is because Ageas  had to rely on the recovery companys availability and priorities. I can 
see that it looked for alternatives but none were  available due to the location of the accident. 
I cant see that it intended to devise a recovery plan. But I think  it was waiting for the 
recovery company to tell it what it had arranged. I think Ageas should have provided better 
information to Mr L in the first instance about the recovery and later as the arrangements 
unfolded. But I think any compensation  for this is covered by what  its already offered. 
Ageas told Mr L that he would be provided  with a courtesy car by the repairing garage.  This 
was because it thought the car would  be repairable based on photographs hed provided. 
But the repairing  garage didnt have a courtesy  car immediately  available. I can see that 
Ageas agreed  that it had made a promise it didnt deliver on.  
But Ageas did offer Mr L £150 compensation for this and I think  thats fair and reasonable for 
the level of inconvenience caused him. I think it takes into account Mr Ls loss of use until a 
courtesy car was provided and his inconvenience. And its what  Id award  in similar 
circumstances. I dont  think  Ageas needs  to increase this.
Mr L is adamant that the policy covers getting him home following an accident.  But I dont 
agree with him. I can see that, following an accident, the policy  covers  getting him and his 
car to a destination  provided that they are the same destination. But I dont think this means 
that a getting you home service separate to his car is provided. I think the relevant policy 
term is about immediate  recovery  from an accident  site. I can see that after some initial 
confusion, Ageas made it clear  to Mr L that his policy didnt have the getting  you home cover 
he expected. 
Mr L didnt need  to be recovered  immediately  from the accident site as he drove the 
damaged car to his accommodation.  Ageas said it looked for Mr L to travel home with his 
car, but this wasnt feasible due to the time it would take. A hire car couldnt be arranged  
because Mr L didnt  have  the necessary documents. 
In any case Ageas reimbursed Mr L for the cost of his train fare home, £370.40, as a gesture 
of goodwill.  So I think its done  more than is required by the policy terms and conditions. I 
dont require it to do anything further. 
 
Ref: DRN47938703my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4793870