K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC mislaying a bank draft which was presented 
for clearance  at their branch in Hastings.
background
Mrs E went  into the Hastings branch of Barclays, to pay a bank draft over the counter. The 
draft was from her Canadian lawyer and drawn on a third party bank.  She  was not asked to 
sign the reverse of the draft.
As the funds debited  and credited Mrs Es account several times, she went  to see the 
manager. He said a possible reason for the multiple  debits and credits could be because the 
reverse of the draft had not been signed.  
Mrs E asked for the draft to be retrieved and returned to her, so that she could  sign the 
reverse and re-submit to Barclays. At that stage Mrs E was offered £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she had suffered, which she accepted.
Mrs E then received a letter  saying that the draft had been  lost in the post. 
 Mrs E formally complained to Barclays and asked  her UK solicitor to write  to them on her 
behalf. At the same time she started to correspond with her Canadian lawyer  by email to try 
to resolve the matter.  The first final response  letter from Barclays  said that the draft had 
been lost, and they had written to Mrs Es lawyer in Canada to arrange for replacement 
funds and offered  her compensation of £200. 
Barclays then issued  a second final response  letter, saying the lost draft had been found, it 
had been with their processing centre  and they credited  the amount to Mrs Es account,  
along with interest  at 8% and made an increased  offer of £300  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs E.  
Mrs E rejects the compensation offered, saying that her lawyers fees alone are £1,000  and 
she claims the sum of £2,500 compensation.
Our investigator took the view that Mrs E was aware  that this service is a free service and it 
may have  been  too early to involve  her UK solicitor at this stage.  Our investigator  took the 
distress and inconvenience that was caused to Mrs E by Barclays  into account  and said the 
compensation offered to Mrs E was fair and reasonable.  
Mrs E disagrees with the investigators view. So, Ive been asked to consider this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, I am not upholding this 
complaint and I will explain why.
My role is to look at the impact of whats happened, and to try to put things right,  and put 
Mrs E in a position that she would have been in had the draft not been  mislaid. My view is 
that Barclays have  done that.
Ref: DRN43426122 I then have to look at the compensation  that is offered  in the total sum of £350 to see if this 
is adequate for the distress she suffered, and for the fees she says that have been incurred.
I know Mrs E is asking  for compensation to pay her solicitors, but I am not persuaded to 
agree with this because  Barclays had already said in their first final response  letter that 
Mrs E had the right to refer her complaint to this service free of charge, so I think  consulting 
a solicitor at such an early stage and incurring these costs was premature so I agree with 
our investigators view that it may have been too early to involve a solicitor  at this time. 
 Ive also considered the impact on Mrs E to have gone through  the stress and 
inconvenience of not knowing the whereabouts of the draft and I acknowledge that Barclays 
took longer than they normally would to carry out their investigations and locate the draft.  
Barclays themselves have admitted their previous responses and resolutions were  incorrect  
and have apologised for the delay. In the circumstances,  I wont be asking  them to do 
anything more. 
Barclays have paid the 8% interest on the draft amount for the period of the delay and the 
offer of compensation in the sum of a further  £300 (so this will be a total of £350) is fair and 
reasonable, and for the reasons I have  given, I am satisfied that the bank has offered an 
appropriate amount
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs E, but I have to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and I think what Barclays has done is fair. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mrs E £350  if it already hasnt  done  so, and if it believes it 
is legally  obliged to have deducted  the tax from the interest, it should send Mrs E a tax 
deduction certificate with any payment if it hasnt already  done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4342612