K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the advice, or lack of advice, she received from Intrinsic Financial 
Planning Ltd (Intrinsic)  after the death  of her mother in 2012  in respect of a bond  taken  out 
in 2010.
background
In 2010, and on the advice of Intrinsic, Mrs Ps mother invested £300,000 in a Clerical 
Medical Bond (bond). Mrs Ps mother was the owner of the bond and Mrs P and her sister 
were the lives assured  under it. Mrs Ps mother elected to withdraw a monthly income of 
£1,250 from the bond.
In 2012, following the death  of Mrs Ps mother,  the bond was assigned to Mrs P and her 
sister. Mrs Ps assigned share of the bond  was 64% and her sisters share was 36%. Soon 
after this assignment  Mrs Ps sister encashed her share of the bond and Mrs P started to 
take a monthly  income of £825 from her share. Mrs P then encashed half her share of the 
bond (with the proceeds ultimately going  to her brother) and started  to take a reduced 
monthly income of £412.50 from her remaining half share.
In 2014 Mrs P elected to stop taking  a monthly income of £412.50 from her remaining share 
of the bond.
In 2017 Mrs P elected to encash  her remaining share of the bond.
After encashing  her remaining share of the bond,  Mrs P complained to Intrinsic  about the 
lack of advice  she had received from it following her mothers death in 2012. Although  its not 
entirely clear, its my understanding  that she did so following advice  from one or more  other 
financial advisers.
Intrinsic didnt uphold  Mrs Ps complaint so she referred it to our service.
Mrs Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he hadnt  seen  enough  evidence  to conclude  that 
Intrinsic had ever given Mrs P advice, or undertaken to do so.
Mrs P didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review  and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall outcome  as the investigator and for broadly  the same reasons. There  is also very 
little I can usefully add to what has already been  said.
Its clear Mrs P has very strong feelings about this matter. She has provided detailed  
submissions in support  of her complaint which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs P will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Ref: DRN41850952I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed, but based on what  she, Intrinsic and Clerical Medical 
have said and submitted,  I find Intrinsics  submission that it never  gave Mrs P advice, or ever 
undertook to do so, to be both plausible and persuasive.
I accept I cant  say for certain  that Mrs P wasnt led to believe by Intrinsic that it would 
provide her, on an ongoing basis, advice about the bond. But had it done so I might have 
expected to see some documentary evidence of this, for example a client engagement letter  
addressed specifically to Mrs P. But Mrs P has been unable to provide such  evidence.  I 
would also add that ongoing advice  to a client tends to follow initial  advice given to a client  
and I cant see that Mrs P was ever given such advice. I appreciate that Mrs P might have 
been present  when  her mother decided to invest in the bond  in 2010, and that she was one 
of two lives assured under it, but in my view any advice  to make this investment would have  
been given to Mrs Ps mother, not her.
I can see that Intrinsic received commission in respect of the bond up to 2017, when the last 
share in it was encashed by Mrs P. But these payments appear to me to be for the original 
advice given to Mrs Ps mother,  rather than anything else. I can also see that Intrinsic  
corresponded with Clerical Medical  in 2012.  But this correspondence appears  to me to be 
nothing more than the passing  on of instructions given  by Mrs P (and her sister) to have the 
bond assigned,  for shares in it to be encashed,  and for an income to be taken from it.
So in summary Im not persuaded  that Intrinsic  has done anything  wrong in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4185095