K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited hasnt properly calculated the 
amounts due on her Very account, hasnt been  able to explain how it has worked out what  
she owes, has applied unfair charges  and chased her for money she doesnt owe.    
background
Miss P has an account with Shop Direct,  under the Very brand. The Very website allows 
customers to buy fashion and other items  from a number of different manufacturers and 
suppliers and to use Shop  Direct  credit  to do so. Ill set out briefly some general background, 
before discussing  Miss Ps specific circumstances. 
As well as sale and other discounted items,  the website also offers  different  payment 
arrangements, depending on the items  purchased. Not all options  are available for every 
item, but they include:
buy now pay later  where a customer can defer payment  until a specified  date and no 
interest is charged  as long as payment is made  in full by that date;
Take 3  where payment is made in three  monthly instalments and no interest is paid in 
that time; and 
interest opt-out deals and other promotions. 
One consequence of this is that a customers account might be made up of a number of 
purchases, some of which are incurring interest  and some of which arent.  And those that 
arent might start to incur interest  at different points in the future. 
The account  terms say that the customer must  pay at least 7% of the outstanding balance  
on the account each month. They also set out how payments will be allocated  across items 
bought on different payment arrangements. Its not necessary to repeat those terms here, 
but a customer wishing to make  the best use of, for example, a buy now pay later offer must 
make the minimum payment and pay the cost of the buy now pay later item in full, as well as 
directing that payment to the buy now pay later item. 
Account statements are sent every four weeks (not every month), and set out what  needs to 
be paid and by what date, as well as what needs  to be paid for buy now pay later, Take  3 
and other  promotions.  That means that payment isnt always due on the same date every 
month.   
Miss P has used her Very account  to purchase buy now pay later items. And her account 
shows that she also has items that either  were not bought on that basis  or that were not paid 
for in full by the date for payment. Where that happens, the buy now pay later balance 
moves to the general balance and attracts interest. The same applies to Take 3 items  that 
arent paid for in full in the time allowed.
The account  terms also provide for a late payment fee of £12 if a payment isnt made by the 
due date on each  statement. 
Miss P doesnt believe that her statements accurately show  what is due; they dont agree 
with her own calculations.  And when  she wasnt  satisfied with the explanation Very gave her, 
she complained  to this service. Our investigator  concluded, in summary:
Ref: DRN43827512Miss P had paid £100 too little in August 2018,  so that was added to the minimum 
payment on the next statement. Once  it had been paid, the account was no longer in 
arrears.
Miss P hadnt  directed  buy now pay later sums  to the items concerned. That meant the 
money was applied to the interest-bearing balance of her account, but buy now pay 
later items then attracted interest.   
On other occasions Miss P had directed all her payments to buy now later items, but 
wasnt making the minimum payment as well, which  created arrears.
On occasions payments were made a few days late, incurring charges which were then 
added to the minimum payment due on the next statement.  
Very hadnt always explained  things as clearly as they might have done,  but had paid 
some compensation  in recognition  of that, which  was reasonable.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions.  
I should say first of all that its not the role of this service  to audit  accounts,  and I havent 
sought to do that here. By that I mean that I havent made my own calculations  of what  Miss 
Ps account balance  should be. Instead, what Ive done is to look at the way the accounts  
been run with a view to identifying  whether Miss P is right in thinking that Very has made 
errors.
I can see how misunderstandings might  have arisen here.  The range of offers available on 
the Very website can make it difficult to keep track  of what payments need to be allocated to 
what parts  of the account to make  the most of them. That becomes  more complicated as 
more items  are bought on different deals that expire  at different times. In addition,  
regulations say how payments are to be applied;  generally speaking,  more expensive  debt 
should be repaid first. That means that it falls on the customer (Miss  P in this case)  to ensure 
that she instructs Very to apply payments to buy now pay later items and to ensure that she 
pays enough so that can happen,  as well as meeting the minimum payment. 
It doesnt appear though that Miss P has always told Very how she wants her payments 
allocated. And on other occasions she has given those instructions but not paid enough so 
they can be carried out. I can see too that shes made payments a few days  late on some 
occasions. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Very has over-charged Miss P, although  Im 
sure she genuinely  believes  that is the case. I do agree  with her though that the explanations 
shes been given  havent always been  as helpful  as they might  have been, but Im satisfied 
that Very has done  enough to compensate her for that.
Ref: DRN43827513my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to do anything 
further to resolve  this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4382751