K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC, trading as Tesco Bank charged him 
interest on his credit  card account despite him paying the account balance  in full.
background
Mr S says he paid the full balance on his Tesco credit card but it charged him interest of just 
over £9 on the next statement. He would like Tesco to remove that amount  and says he 
thought he had an interest free period in any event  as he received a letter from Tesco  about 
this.
Tesco says its not made  a mistake and Mr S didnt have  a promotional rate on the account. 
It says Mr S made a purchase in May 2018  but didnt clear that balance until August 2018. 
So it says in line with the account terms and conditions, Mr S was correctly charged interest.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. He thought Tesco had 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions and as Mr S hadnt cleared the full 
balance then interest was charged.
Mr S has asked  for a review of that decision and says hes either mistaken  or Tesco  misled 
him. He says his credit  file has been affected by whats happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at then account terms and conditions which I think Mr S wouldve agreed  to when 
the account was opened.  And Im satisfied that Tesco is entitled to charge  interest  where an 
account balance  isnt paid off in full for two consecutive months. I think that information is 
also contained on Mr Ss account statement. I find thats whats  happened here and Tesco  
didnt make a mistake by charging Mr S the interest of just over £9.
I appreciate Mr S says he thought there was an interest free period. But Im satisfied having 
looked at Tescos records that wasnt the case.
I appreciate Mr S says this has affected his credit file. But I think  that may be as a result of 
him refusing to pay Tesco the account  balance. So I cant  fairly hold Tesco responsible  for 
what I think would be the accurate  reporting  of the account position to the Credit  Reference 
Agencies.
Overall Im satisfied Tesco hasnt made a mistake here or acted unfairly  and so I cant order 
it remove the account balance.
Ref: DRN41826582my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4182658