K820x#14complaint
Mr P acquired a car in December 2017, by means of a two year hire agreement with Arval 
UK Limited.  The agreement included charges through which  he was covered by Arvals car 
maintenance scheme. 
Mr P phoned  Arval in December 2018  to arrange for work  to be done  under its maintenance 
scheme. He complains that it subsequently invoiced him for this work, which  he felt was 
covered by the scheme.
background
Arvals maintenance  scheme covered the costs of certain servicing, maintenance and repair  
costs, where the work was undertaken by garages or suppliers appointed by it. Other work 
could be undertaken through the scheme,  but on a chargeable basis.   
Mr P complained initially to Arval.  It wrote to him, saying that the costs of his work were  not 
covered by the scheme, and so his work was chargeable. 
Mr P then referred his complaint to us, saying:
The terms and conditions of his hire agreement were unclear about whether or not 
the work  he had commissioned  was chargeable
He should  have been told, when he contacted Arval in December 2018, that the work 
he was arranging was chargeable
If he had been  told, he would not have proceeded with Arval  because he would 
have been able to arrange  for the work  to be done elsewhere at lower cost, by 
making use of provisions in his car insurance  policy
Arval provided to us a document listing Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for the scheme. 
It also provided evidence  which  indicated that this document  was emailed to Mr P in 
February 2018, and again  in March 2018. This document made  clear  that the type of work  
Mr P commissioned was chargeable.
Arval also provided  to us an outline  of the pre-recorded call options  text, which  it said Mr P 
would have heard  when  he called  it in December 2018. The options  text again made clear 
that the type of work he wanted to arrange was chargeable.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld. He noted that the hire 
agreement mentioned the type of work being  arranged, and that the agreement was unclear 
about whether  or not such work was chargeable under  the scheme.
But our investigator drew attention to other information that Mr P should have received: that 
is, the scheme FAQs document and the call options. And so our investigator  concluded  that 
Mr P did have access to correct information  about the type of work being arranged.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, saying: 
He never  received  the FAQs emails
He did not pay attention to the options text, because he just wanted to speak with a 
real person
The real person he spoke with should have told him that the work he wanted to 
arrange was chargeable,  but did not do so
Ref: DRN41984472And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Further investigation showed the email  address  to which Arval says the FAQs document  was 
sent, is not the same as the email address Mr P later gave to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, when he referred his complaint to us. 
Mr P told us:
The email address used by Arval relates  to his place of employment  until October 
2018
He has no recollection of receiving the FAQs document  although, having left that 
employment, he is unable to access the earlier address  (and so he is unable to 
provide evidence in support of his recollection)
In his view, it is the text of his signed hire agreement that should matter, rather  than 
anything contained  in the FAQs  document   
Mr Ps signed agreement includes his earlier email address, which  related to his employment 
at the times when  Arval says it emailed the FAQs document to him. In these circumstances, 
I think:
Arval acted reasonably by sending these emails to this address
Given a lack of evidence to the contrary, it is more likely than not that these emails 
were sent, and that they arrived at Mr Ps email address (although  he may or may not 
have read them)
I concur with our investigators  view that Mr Ps hire agreement mentioned the type of work  
being arranged,  and that the agreement was unclear about whether or not such work was 
chargeable under Arvals  maintenance scheme. 
I also agree  with Mr P that the text of his agreement  is important. And, if this text had 
indicated that the type of work being  arranged was not chargeable, I would uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. But it did not do so.
Similarly, I note Mr Ps statement  that he did not pay attention  to the options  text, when he 
called Arval in December 2018. Although I do not think that Arval can be held in any way 
responsible for his choice not to do so. 
And, based on Arvals evidence, I think it is more likely than not that the options text did 
make clear  the type of work Mr P wanted to arrange  was chargeable.
I note as well Mr P is saying that, during the subsequent phone conversation, Arval should 
have told him his work was chargeable. And, if Arval had told Mr P that his work was not 
chargeable, I would  uphold  his complaint. But again  it did not do so. 
Ref: DRN41984473In addition, I disagree with Mr P that Arval was under an obligation to tell him the work was 
chargeable. This is because I find that he probably  did have access already  to correct 
information about this work  given:
The FAQs document that Arval probably  sent him, which (as noted earlier)  made  
clear that the type of work he wanted to arrange  was chargeable
The options text, which  (as noted above) probably provided  the same  
information.(even though he says that he did not listen  to it) 
This means  that, on the balance  of probabilities,  I have come to the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4198447