K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out in 2009 with a loan. The policy 
provided Mr and Mrs P with Life and Critical Illness Cover (CIC). Mr and Mrs P say 
Black Horse  Limited mis-sold them the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Black Horse  had to make Mr and Mrs P aware  that the insurance policy  was optional and 
gain their consent before adding it to their loan. I cant be sure what  was said at the time 
Mr and Mrs P applied  for their loan and insurance  policy, but Black Horse has provided a 
copy of the available paperwork.
Mr and Mrs Ps loan agreement had a separate section titled  optional payment protection 
plan. Within this section Mr and Mrs P have  signed in agreement  to taking cover for life and 
critical illness separately to signing for the loan itself. With this in mind I think  Black Horse  
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the insurance,  and they chose to 
have it. Although I can understand, given the time thats passed  why they may not remember 
this.
Black Horse  says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs P  which  means it had to check  
that it was right for them.  And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. They  werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for it. Mr and Mrs P have also told us that they are unsure if 
they had any alternative  life or CIC cover when they took the policy.  From what  I understand, 
Mr and Mrs P were  married and the life and CIC cover they were sold would mean  any 
outstanding loan would be paid off if a successful claim was made under the policy.
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr and Mrs P about the policy  wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better 
information about it wouldve put them off taking out the cover.
This means  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. So Black Horse doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs P paid for the cover.
But Black Horse has offered to give Mr and Mrs P back some  of the cost of the policy.  I 
understand Black Horse  has already paid this to Mr and Mrs P and I dont think it needs  to 
do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN43388402Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4338840