K821x#15complaint
Mr S, through his representatives,  complains about  the advice he was given by Pacific  IFA 
Limited in relation to transferring his personal pension  and his occupational pension (OPS) 
into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
Mr Ss intention  was to invest these funds  into overseas property with Harlequin Property 
(Harlequin) which is an unregulated investment. He says Pacific didnt assess  the suitability 
and risks of this investment. The Harlequin  investment  failed and Mr S lost all his pension 
funds. He wants to be compensated  for his financial losses.
background
Mr S said a third-party financial adviser (F) told him of the Harlequin  property investment 
which promised better returns than his existing pensions and would enable him to retire at 
62. It was suggested  his pensions could be used to fund these overseas investments and in 
February 2010 he was referred to Pacific. At the time Mr S was self-employed  and had two 
existing pensions, a personal pension of around £51,000 and OPS benefits of around 
£54,800. Mr Ss wife worked  as a personal  assistant for F.
Mr S met with a Pacific adviser in February 2010. He signed  several  forms including a 
Financial Review Form and a Risk Questionnaire. I understand at least some  of these forms 
had been completed previously  with Mr S by F. Mr S also signed a client agreement. Pacific 
requested details from Mr Ss existing  pensions. They then recommended  that a SIPP  was 
established with Montpelier (now Curtis  Banks).  Mr S agreed  to this recommendation and in 
March 2010 Mr Ss personal  pension was transferred to the SIPP  and he used  the funds to 
invest in a Harlequin property.
The transfer of Mr Ss OPS benefits did not happen until October  2010.  In the time between 
February and October more paperwork was completed with Mr S, including  a Pension  
Transfer Questionnaire and an Investment Risk Questionnaire. In June 2010, Pacific  
recommended Mr S not to transfer his OPS benefits, however Mr S proceeded in any event 
and transferred his benefits to the SIPP. He paid £54,800 towards a second  Harlequin 
property in October 2010.
The Harlequin properties werent completed as planned and the investment failed. Mr S lost 
all his invested funds.  His representatives provided  detailed submissions which I all 
considered but Im not going to repeat here in their entirety. Amongst other  things they said:
Pacific didnt provide  any warnings  to Mr S about the potential risks of transferring  his 
pension in February 2010
Pacific was advising Mr S in relation to both his pensions. They completed a 
Financial Review Form  and a Risk Questionnaire collating  Mr Ss attitude  to risk 
which wouldnt have been needed  if they only facilitated the vehicle for the 
investment.
Pacifics paperwork indicates  that they recommended  against the transfer  of Mr Ss 
OPS pension but this was primarily on the basis that there  would need  to be high 
returns to match the critical yield. And as the Harlequin returns  predicted he could 
retire at 62, he wouldnt have perceived this as a problem. Pacific didnt state at any 
point that transferring  his pension into the SIPP  could put the entire  fund at risk.
Ref: DRN44542892The full implications of proceeding on an insistent client basis  and the risks involved 
in the transfer  werent made  clear.  There isnt sufficient evidence  that Mr S was an 
insistent client. Pacifics process  was a papering  exercise.
Pacific only met with Mr S for ten minutes in February 2010. This wasnt  sufficient. 
They didnt ensure the advice was being understood by Mr S.
Pacific breached several  Conduct of Business rules (COBS) and Principles  for 
Businesses. Amongst  other things, they didnt act honestly, fairly and professionally 
and in Mr Ss best interest. They didnt ensure the suitability of their advice. And they 
didnt give Mr S adequate comparisons  about  the benefits of his existing schemes 
and the recommended schemes for him to make an informed  choice.
Pacific couldnt advise on the investment  vehicle  (i.e. the SIPP) without considering  
the underlying  investments.
Pacific received commissions which Mr S didnt  consent to.
Pacific received fees for the set-up  of the SIPP as well as annual  fees for both 
investments. These fees were dependent on the transaction going ahead  so created 
a conflict of interest.
Mr Ss losses are caused by Pacifics  poor advice
Pacific also provided detailed submissions which again I considered in detail but I will only 
summarise the key elements here. They  said:
The complaint  was referred  outside the regulators time limits, so shouldnt  be 
considered.
Mr S was introduced  to Pacific by F and the advice to invest in Harlequin  had come 
from F. Mr Ss wife worked  for F who was a regulated adviser.
In February 2010, Pacific only provided  a recommendation on the SIPP wrapper  to 
enable Mr S to invest in his chosen investment. They hadnt been asked to advise on 
the pension transfer,  whether to set up a SIPP or not, nor on the Harlequin 
investment. The division of responsibilities  between F and Pacific was clear.
It seems  unlikely  that the meeting  with Mr S only took ten minutes given much 
paperwork was completed during this meeting and that the adviser  would have had 
to introduce himself, explain their fees and the SIPPs available.  The suitability report 
of 22 February reflects what was discussed.
The report shows that when Mr S met Pacific the Harlequin  investment  was ready. 
They assume this means Mr S had chosen  the property, paid a reservation fee of 
£1,000, had transfer valuations from his existing pensions and had been issued with 
a purchase contract by Harlequin. All that was still needed was the SIPP.
When it was established  that one of his pensions was an OPS  pension, Pacific was 
asked to provide  pension  transfer  advice for this pension. Their  recommendation for 
Mr S to leave the benefits in his OPS  was clear. Mr S wanted to proceed  anyway  and 
was informed he would  be treated  as an insistent client. He wrote a letter  saying he 
wanted to proceed and signed an insistent client declaration on 19 July 2010, so 
theres evidence  he was an insistent client.
Mr S would have known from the previous  suitability report that the Harlequin 
investment was high risk and very speculative and that he could lose all his pension 
funds.
Mr Ss retirement age was confirmed  in both suitability letters  as 65 and not 62 as 
Mr Ss representatives state.  In some of the paperwork a reference is made  to age 
63 as this was the normal  retirement  age of the OPS scheme and comparisons of the 
OPS and SIPP were made  to this age.
All fees were clearly set out to Mr S and no secret commissions  were  paid to Pacific.
Ref: DRN44542893Mr S would have proceeded with the investment  in any event. He took steps  to 
reserve a Harlequin property before Pacifics involvement which  shows  he relied on 
F. There is also evidence that theres  a strong relationship between  Mr S and his wife 
and F as Mrs S worked for him. And he proceeded despite being  warned that 
Harlequin was high risk. 
Mr S knew at all times that Pacific wasnt advising him on the investment. He admits 
that advice came  from F. Shortly after Mr S bought the second Harlequin property, he 
removed Pacific as the servicing agent  for the SIPP.
The SIPP trustees had independent  legal duties and were expected to identify 
anomalous investments  and seek appropriate clarification from clients about  the 
suitability of what was recommended. Pacific  was never  asked for information  from 
the trustee. The actual cause of loss was the SIPPs trustees independent decision 
to invest SIPP monies into Harlequin. This breaks the chain of causation between  
Pacifics advice and Mr Ss loss
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in which  I found  that the complaint had been referred 
within the regulators time limits and that I intended  to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S accepted this decision. Pacific, through their representatives, disagreed both with my 
findings on jurisdiction  and merits and provided  further detailed  submissions. 
My findings
jurisdiction
In my PD I said the following:
Pacific raised concerns  that Mr S didnt complain within the regulators time limits which  are 
set out in the DISP rules in regulators handbook.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(1)more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response or redress determination or summary  resolution communication ; or
(2)more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint
having been received.
Pacific issued their final response  letter on 11 November 2015 and this service  received 
Mr Ss complaint form and accompanying documents  through his representatives by email  
on 25 April 2016, so within six months of the final response letter.
Ref: DRN44542894I also looked at the six-year limitation.  Mr S complained about advice given to him by Pacific 
between February and October  2010. He sent a letter of complaint together with a complaint 
form to this service on 8 September 2015  which we received on 12 September  2015, so 
within six years of the events Mr S is complaining  about. We forwarded  his complaint to 
Pacific on 22 September 2015 with the request  to investigate it.
Pacific disputes that this letter  constituted  a complaint as defined by DISP  as they say Mr S 
didnt allege he suffered any financial loss, material distress or material  inconvenience.
However, I disagree. In the letter Mr S said:
I was advised  back in 2010 to move my pensions  into a Monpelier [sic] SIPP  to facilitate
the purchase of two Harlequin Hotels and Resort  Properties.
Because of the Harlequin situation, I am now seeking compensation for what  I
consider to be inappropriate advice received and I understand you are able to make a
complaint to the company  on my behalf, which I would appreciate if you could on my
behalf.
In the accompanying complaint form he said:
I was advised  to invest my pensions  into purchasing  two Harlequin Hotel and Resorts 
Properties back in 2010. I believe  the Harlequin situation  is well known but I believe the 
advice I was given  is inappropriate. I also believe that the full risk of doing so was not totally 
explained to me.
The fact that Mr S was seeking compensation, against the background that the Harlequin  
investments at this stage  had been worthless,  implies to me that he alleged having lost out 
financially. So Im satisfied Mr Ss letter of 8 September 2015 meets the DISP  definition of a 
complaint. 
I note that Pacific also raised concerns that the complaint raised in September  2015  was 
significantly different to the one raised in April 2016  after the final response  had been issued. 
They say in Mr Ss original complaint he complains about advice to invest  into Harlequin 
properties which Pacific  says they didnt do. This is what they addressed in their final 
response letter. He didnt complain about the recommendation of the SIPP or about Pacifics 
recommendation not to transfer his OPS pension. 
The complaint brought  by Mr Ss representatives in 2016 is broader and complains about 
Pacifics conduct in respect  of Mr Ss pension transfer into a SIPP  and the subsequent 
investments. It doesnt mention that Pacific advised  Mr S to invest  into Harlequin.
Pacific says the second complaint was a new complaint that was raised in April 2016,  so 
more than six years after Pacific gave its recommendation  on the SIPP  in February 2010. 
Mr Ss first Harlequin  property  was meant  to be completed by the end of 2011,  so they say 
he would  have been aware  of having cause for complaint in early  2012 when the property 
hadnt completed as planned. So Pacific thinks Mr S also didnt complain within the three-
year part of DISP 2.8.2 (2) R.
Again I have to disagree with Pacific here.  
Ref: DRN44542895Mr S had sought professional advice after the initial  complaint  which led to more detailed  
and precise arguments  in 2016 through his representatives. However, as far as I see it, the 
substance of Mr Ss complaint throughout is that he ended  up transferring his pensions  into 
a SIPP  and into Harlequin investments. In 2015 he complained  about  inappropriate advice  
and that risks werent explained. Essentially, hes unhappy that he has lost his pensions. I 
dont think this has changed at any point. 
I think its clear  from Mr Ss submissions (both in 2015 and 2016) that hes unhappy with 
Pacifics advice and involvement  in the Harlequin  transaction and he considers them  
responsible for his losses. So I dont think his submissions in April 2016  are fundamentally a 
new complaint.
Having considered all available evidence Im satisfied that Mr S raised  his complaint in 
September 2015 within the regulators time limits and I can continue  to consider the merits of 
this complaint.
Pacifics comments  after my PD and my findings
Pacific remain  of the opinion that Mr Ss complaint in 2015  didnt satisfy the definition of a 
complaint in DISP  as he didnt allege a loss. They refer to dictionary definitions of the words  
allege being  defined as declare to be the case, especially without proof. And declare  
being defined  as announce openly  or formally,  pronounce to be something  or assert 
empathetically. Pacific  says there  was no express declaration or open announcement that 
Mr S had suffered  a loss and a claim  for compensation is not the same  as an allegation  that 
a loss has been suffered.
Pacific says it was wrong for me to rely on the background that the Harlequin  investments at 
this stage had been worthless. There is nothing in the definition  of complaint in DISP  which  
refers to the background and theres no allegation  in Mr Ss letter  that the Harlequin 
investments were worthless. An inference falls short of the required allegation.
Mr S said in his complaint  letter I believe the Harlequin situation is well known. I mentioned  
that the investments had been  worthless  by this stage to illustrate what  Mr S was likely 
referring to. However,  even if I ignore this and only take into account what  Mr S actually said 
in his complaint  letter  and complaint form, Im still satisfied his submissions amount to a 
complaint as defined  in DISP.
The complaint definition is DISP requires the complainant to allege he has suffered (or may 
suffer) financial loss, material  distress  or material inconvenience. Mr S said he was seeking 
compensation. Compensation is an award in recognition of loss, suffering or injury. Mr S 
didnt explicitly say he suffered (or may suffer) a financial  loss or distress or inconvenience.  
However, the fact he said he was seeking compensation in my opinion  implied  without 
question he thought he suffered or may suffer one of these. And I consider this implication is 
sufficiently strong to meet the requirement  of DISP  of an allegation. There is no other 
relevant reason why Mr S would ask for compensation unless he was alleging there was a 
loss, distress or inconvenience. 
I would also like to note that Pacific treated Mr Ss submissions  in September  2015  as a 
complaint and issued a final response letter.
In summary,  I still consider Mr S raised a complaint - as defined in DISP - in September 
2015.
Ref: DRN44542896Pacific also says the event Mr S complains about is the advice provided  by them which  
predated September 2010 and so neither Mr Ss complaint in September 2015  nor the 
complaint correspondence received by this service in May 2016 fall within  the six-year time 
limit as set out in DISP.
Im not sure what point  Pacific tries to make here. As I said in my provisional decision the 
advice Mr S is complaining about  was given from February 2010 onwards. So the six-year 
time limit would expire in February  2016 at the earliest. As explained previously I consider 
the complaint  was made in September  2015, so within six years of the event Mr M is 
complaining about.
As the complaint has been raised  within the six-year time limit, the three-year limit in DISP 
isnt relevant.
Having considered Pacifics comments with regards to jurisdiction, I remain  satisfied that the 
complaint has been raised in time and that I can consider the merits of Mr Ss complaint.
Merits of the complaint 
In my provisional decision I said the following:
SIPP recommendation in February  2010
In Pacifics suitability report dated  22 February  Pacific said: 
You were introduced  to Pacific by your IFA as you have chosen to purchase  an offshore 
property from Harlequin and are going  to utilise your pension funds to generate (initially) the 
deposit for the investment.  You already have details of your pensions  via [name of adviser] 
and you have the investment ready  but your IFA does not deal with SlPPs  and so we are 
looking at the wrapper for you. Our advice therefore  is only on which SIPP  provider will allow 
you to self invest.
They went  on to explain that normally  they would arrange a suitable portfolio for clients but in 
this instance they werent giving formal advice on the investment. They  would only give 
advice on the suitability of the vehicle with which Mr S could carry out his objective to 
proceed with the property  investment via his pension fund.
I dont think its in dispute that the original idea and recommendation to invest  in Harlequin  
came from F. It seems F wasnt  able to recommend a SIPP that allowed the Harlequin 
investment as he was a tied adviser, so Pacific  got involved. I appreciate  that F only asked 
Pacific to limit their advice  to recommending a SIPP. However,  when recommending the 
SIPP Pacific  should  have also considered the suitability of the underlying investment which  
they knew was an overseas  property investment by Harlequin. 
COBS 9.2.2R requires  a firm to obtain the information necessary about its client  to have a 
reasonable basis for believing its recommendation meets his investment objectives, that the 
client is able to bear any related investment risks and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand those risks.
So whilst this is essentially setting out the requirement to carry out a fact find, it requires an 
understanding of the clients objectives   and the risks related to those objectives. It means  
Ref: DRN44542897that a firm cannot ignore the clients intention  of investing into an unregulated  or high-risk 
investment. If it doesnt consider this to be suitable in the clients  circumstances,  it should  
say so.
In 2013 the regulator  became  aware  that a large number of businesses  were misinterpreting 
what the rules required  them  to do. It issued  an alert which said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in
the abstract. This is incorrect .
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer  into the SIPP.  If,
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable.
I appreciate that this alert was issued after Pacific  gave their advice in 2010. However, this 
alert didnt mark a change in regulations. It was just a reminder of how advisers  were  
expected to act. Pacific  says the adviser  who gave Mr S advice in February wasnt  qualified  
to give pension transfer advice. However,  as explained above Pacific still needed to consider 
the suitability of the underlying investments when recommending a SIPP. If this particular 
adviser wasnt able to do this, Pacific  needed  to have brought in a different adviser. I also 
dont think they could have reasonably relied  on Mr S already having received advice from F. 
They didnt know what Mr S had been  told by F.
Before recommending a SIPP, Pacific  should have assessed the suitability of the Harlequin 
investment and if found unsuitable for Mr S not recommended the SIPP. Looking at the 
paperwork Mr S completed which contains information about his circumstances and 
questions around  his attitude  to risk, Im satisfied that the Harlequin investment wasnt 
suitable for him. And I think this should  have been  evident to Pacific  as well.
The SIPP was only needed to facilitate the investment into Harlequin  as this wouldnt have 
been possible within Ms Ss existing  pension plans. The investment into unregulated 
overseas property is a high risk and specialist investment which  would only be suitable  for 
the most  experienced investors.  Pacific did acknowledge  in their report  that the investment 
was very high risk and that Mr S could lose all of his funds.
At the time of the advice Mr S was 58 years  old and self-employed with annual  earnings of 
around £26,500. The Financial Review Report  states his intended retirement  age was 65. He 
had a personal pension funds of around  £51,000 and an OPS pension with a transfer value 
of around £54,800.  Other  than that he had joint savings with his wife in a bank account worth  
Ref: DRN44542898£27,000 and an ISA of £11,000.  He held shares  with his wife valued at £120,000.  Mr S told 
us that these were  shares his wife had inherited from her father. 
Based on the above Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt an experienced investor. Pacifics 
suitability report also acknowledges that Mr S describes his investment experience as about 
as much understanding/knowledge as the next person and based on the answers he gave 
in Pacifics Attitude  to Risk Questionnaire his attitude to risk was balanced.  In a different 
section of the form Mr Ss attitude to risk with regards to pensions is marked  as 4 which is 
the highest risk category marked as adventurous. However, I cant see how this fits in with 
the rest of the information in the forms.
Even if Mr S was prepared  to take some  risk, he also only had about seven years until 
retirement so it would have been difficult to make up any substantial  losses  to his pension in 
this short  amount of time. Given his circumstances I dont think  he had the capacity to take 
such a high risk and losing his funds  would have sincerely affected his financial security in 
retirement. So the investment was unsuitable for him and consequently  so was the SIPP in 
this instance.
Pacific gave Mr S unsuitable advice.  They  shouldnt have  recommended  the SIPP  and 
should have advised Mr S instead  that his intended  investment  into Harlequin wasnt suitable 
for him as it was too high risk for him.
Pacifics comments  after my PD and my findings
Pacific accepts that COBS 9.2 was to be followed when recommending  the SIPP  wrapper to 
Mr S. However, they say its a misinterpretation that COBS 9.2.2R requires  Pacific  to 
consider the suitability of the underlying investment. 
For reference I include the wording of COBS 9.2.2 R at the time of the advice given.
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about  him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially  to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with his 
investment objectives;  and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge in order to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction or in the management  of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding  the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding  the financial situation  of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets,  including liquid 
assets, investments  and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
Pacific says COBS 9.2.2R(1) required them to have a reasonable basis  for believing  that the 
specific transaction to be recommended  satisfied each test as set out in sub paragraphs (a) 
to (c). 
Ref: DRN44542899They say if my finding that the Harlequin  investment  was Mr Ss investment objective was 
correct, then this would mean a recommendation against the establishment of the SIPP 
- and therefore not meeting his investment objective  to invest into Harlequin- would be 
unsuitable. Pacific says this is irrational as I decided in my provisional decision that Pacific 
should have recommended  against the SIPP.
Pacific also says the misinterpretation of COBS 9.2.2R (1) can be seen in how I applied the 
test under subparagraph  (b). This requires the adviser to have a reasonable basis for 
believing the customer can bear any related  investment  risk consistent with his investment 
objectives. Consistent  means the same as or in harmony with.  Pacific points to 
COBS 9.2.2R (2) which they say prescribes what investment  objectives  are. This includes 
the customers preference  for risk taking and his risk profile.  Pacific  says reading the 
provisions in (1) and (2) together  means  the customer  must be able to financially  bear any 
related investment risks that are the same  as his preferences for risk taking and his risk 
profile. So COBS 9.2.2R (2) provides the measure  or level of risk against which the adviser  
then has to conduct their assessment under COBS 9.2.2 (1) (b).
I have to disagree with Pacific that Ive misinterpreted the provisions in COBS  9.2.2R. 
Although its correct that information regarding the investment objectives as described in 
COBS 9.2.2 (2) does  include preferences regarding risk taking and the customers risk 
profile, it must also include information  about the length of the investment and the purpose of 
the investment.  
Pacific has acknowledged  that the relevant investment here is the SIPP. And the purpose of 
the SIPP was the investment into Harlequin. There was no other  reason to establish a SIPP. 
Ive never  said Mr Ss only investment objective  was to invest in Harlequin. I said this 
couldnt be ignored. A usual objective  when doing  anything with ones pension  is for example 
to maximise benefits in retirement in line with ones attitude to risk. However, Im satisfied 
the underlying  investment here is part of Mr Ss investment objective. 
Pacific had to have a reasonable reason for believing  that the specific transaction to be 
recommended was as such that Mr S could financially  bear any related investment risks. I 
consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be risks that are related to the SIPP. In 
fact assessing  the risk and suitability of a SIPP without knowing what  a customer would  
invest in within the wrapper, is not reasonably possible.
Recommending against the SIPP - as Pacific should have done - wouldnt have breached 
suitability requirements  of COBS 9.2.2.  A customer might have conflicting objectives, for 
example someone  might  want to take absolutely no risk with their investment, but would like 
to receive an income which cant be achieved without taking more risk. In these  
circumstances a recommendation  that meets these requirements as much as reasonably  
possible and still is in line with someones  attitude  and capacity  for risk, can be suitable.  
COBS 2.1 also needed  to be considered by Pacific which is to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. Pacific knew Mr S was only 
intending to transfer into a SIPP to invest into Harlequin and from the information available  to 
them this was a high-risk investment which he didnt  have the capacity to take. So a 
recommendation of a SIPP to facilitate this unsuitable investment wasnt in Mr Ss best 
interest. 
Ref: DRN445428910Pacific says this service must have regard to relevant law which  includes  a high court  
judgment Russell Adams v Options  Sipp UK LLP (formerly known as Carey Pensions  UK 
LLP). In the judgment  it was found  that the essence of the contract between the client and 
the SIPP provider  was execution-only and the client was to be responsible for their own 
investment decisions.  The judgment found  contractual terms between the parties had to be 
taken into account.  COBS 2.1.1 couldnt be construed as imposing an obligation on the SIPP  
provider to advise.  
Pacific says similar principles should  apply to this complaint.  They made it clear in the 
suitability report that they would only advise  Mr S on the SIPP and not the underlying 
investments. They say consequently COBS 2.1.1 didnt impose a duty to advise on the 
underlying investment as it fell outside  of the retainer/contract.
Ive considered the judgment, however, I think the circumstances  in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pacific didnt act on an execution-only  basis.  They were giving advice 
on the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS  9 did already apply. And as explained  
above part of the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included  the suitability of the 
underlying investment. 
COBS 2.1.2R sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or restrict any duty or 
liability it may have to the client under  the regulatory  system. So Pacific couldnt  limit their 
obligation in COBS 9 to assess suitability  of the underlying  investment by taking instructions 
to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation.
Pacific argues that COBS 9.2.2R is caveated by the words giving due consideration to the 
nature and extent  of the service provided;  the words extent  of the service  provided being a 
reference to the extent  of the advice  to be provided.  They say it follows  that the application 
of COBS 9.2.2R is directly affected and potentially limited by the extent of the agreed 
retainer. 
The obligations in COBS 9.2.2 R do only apply to the advice Pacific gave which I accept  is 
the SIPP advice  in this case.  However,  as explained  above the suitability  of a SIPP cant  be 
considered without assessing the underlying investments. So I disagree with Pacifics  
argument that COBS  9.2.2 R itself is potentially limiting their obligations  in this respect.
Pacific also refers to the judges  considering the relevance of thematic reviews, guidance 
and alerts published by the regulator  between 2013 and 2017. The judge concluded that 
these had no direct bearings on the matter he had to decide as they were published after the 
event. Pacific argues  this means this service cant consider the 2013  alert I referred to in my 
PD either. Instead,  Pacific says this service is required  to apply the usual  principles of 
construction to the COBS Rules that were prevailing at the time of the advice in question.
As explained above Im satisfied that in 2010  the provisions in COBS  9.2.2 required Pacific 
to assess the suitability of the underlying investments when recommending  the SIPP.  
So in summary,  Im still satisfied Pacific  shouldnt have recommended the SIPP  in these 
circumstances.
Advice to transfer  Mr Ss OPS pension benefits  into a SIPP
In my PD I said:
Ref: DRN445428911Pacific issued a suitability report to Mr S on 22 June 2010. The accompanying letter  said 
their recommendation was for Mr S to retain his benefits in the OPS  scheme. If he wanted to 
leave his pension  as it was, he should sign the enclosed Client  Declaration  to confirm his 
acceptance of Pacifics advice. The declaration said: 
I confirm that I have read and understood the report given to me by my adviser in relation
to the transfer  of the deferred benefits  held in my ex-employer's pension scheme. I accept 
the recommendation to leave the benefits within my ex-employer's pension plan.
They also explained that if Mr S still wanted  to proceed, they would require a signed  
declaration stating he wished to proceed  with the transfer after receiving Pacifics full advice.
The report  compared  Mr Ss OPS benefits with benefits he might receive in a SIPP.  At the 
end of the report they summarised their reasons for recommending not to transfer as follows:
If the critical yield wasnt  achieved he would retire with an overall lower retirement 
fund and it was highly  unlikely the critical yield could be achieved over the term to 
age 63.
The yields were higher at age 60, so early  retirement with higher benefits  in a 
personal pension  was unrealistic.
Tax free cash might be higher following a transfer but Mr S had said this wasnt  
important to him.
Spouses pension  on death would be reduced if critical yield wasnt achieved.
The risk of suffering  reduced benefits  if his OPS entered  the Pension Protection  Fund  
existed, but reduced benefits were still likely to be higher than those Mr S could 
expect from a personal pension
Mr S would suffer reduced benefits  in retirement by transferring to an alternative 
arrangement. 
Although this would  mean Mr S couldnt  take advantage of the investment 
opportunity presented  to him, the adviser didnt consider that Mr Ss term to 
retirement and the critical yield favoured a transfer.  He said he considered  Mr Ss 
very aggressive attitude to risk but that still didnt  lead him to recommend the 
transfer.
The OPS benefits presented a significant  proportion of Mr Ss pension funding  and 
so it wouldnt be in his interest  to subject them to the significant  levels  of risk 
presented by the investment opportunity when Mr S intended to draw  retirement  
income within the next seven  years
Mr S didnt sign the enclosed client declaration. Instead Mr S wrote a short letter  dated  29 
June 2010 to Pacific  stating I can confirm that I wish you to proceed with the transfer after 
receiving your full advice.
Pacific then spoke to Mr S on 6 July. I dont know what exactly  was discussed  in this call, but 
it was referred to in a follow  up letter  on 9 July, so Im satisfied it took place and that at this 
stage Mr S still wanted to proceed.
On 9 July 2010 Pacific  wrote to Mr S to confirm that he had chosen to proceed with the 
transfer against their recommendation  and that he would therefore  be treated as an insistent 
client. They  explained  that Mr S might  not be entitled to make a complaint against  Pacific 
through the regulator or our service if he should later feel the decision wasnt  in his best 
interest. They repeated  the reasons of why Mr S should stay in his OPS scheme as 
described in their report on 22 June.
Ref: DRN445428912Pacific said overall they didnt consider  that the benefit of control and flexibility outweighed  
the disadvantages of transferring and that to retain his existing  benefits  in the OPS remained 
their recommendation, particularly considering  the critical  yield.
As Mr S wanted to proceed, Pacific said they would arrange for his transfer value to be paid 
into a SIPP  and recommended the Montpelier SIPP for this transaction  with a retirement age 
of 65. They  reiterated that they didnt provide the investment strategy for Mr S but only 
advised him on the SIPP provider.
Pacific listed some  general risks of investments and additional risks which applied to off-plan  
overseas commercial property via a SIPP including 
Currency/exchange rate risk
Liquidity risk
Regulatory Risk
Political Risk
Delivery Risk
Diversification Risk
The letter went on to say that Mr S had confirmed  that he wished to take advantage  of the 
investment opportunity in overseas commercial property and so Pacific would therefore 
arrange the transfer. They recommended the same SIPP as before. 
With this letter Pacific  enclosed an insistent client form and OPS  scheme discharge form. 
The insistent client form asked Mr S to confirm that he had read and understood Pacifics 
suitability report with regards to the transfer  of his OPS benefits and that he didnt accept the 
recommendation made by Pacific. And that he had read the letter  explaining that he would 
be classed as an insistent  client and accepted the implications.
Mr S signed  the insistent  client form on 19 July 2010.
At this point new transfer valuations were requested from the OPS scheme (as the previous 
guaranteed value had expired). New valuations were received in September  and funds were 
transferred to the SIPP. 
Ive carefully considered  the insistent client process  Pacific followed here.
COBS 9 didnt  include  a specific rule on insistent clients at the time of the advice. However, 
COBS 2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client. 
Ive also taken into account that the regulator  issued  a factsheet to advisers in 2015 to 
provide a helpful reminder  of the regulators position  on advising insistent clients. This 
followed a thematic review it had conducted on advice  for insistent clients in 2014.  
The key steps  to take in the regulators view were:
1.To provide suitable advice for the individual client  and this advice  must  be clear to 
the client
2.To be clear with the client  about the risks of their chosen course of action
3.It should be clear to the client that their actions  are against the advisers advice.
Ref: DRN445428913During the industry-wide review of pension transfers  and opt-outs the regulator had also 
suggested that a note in the clients own hand provided more  compelling evidence of their 
insistence to proceed.
Pacific advised Mr S not to transfer his OPS benefits which was suitable advice. The 
suitability letter in June  2010 clearly set out that Pacifics recommendation was for Mr S to 
keep his OPS benefits. The enclosed declaration was for Mr S to confirm  that he understood 
and accepted the advice  to leave his benefits in the OPS  scheme.  But instead of signing and 
returning this enclosed declaration, he made  the decision to write a letter  saying he wanted 
to proceed. 
Pacifics follow  up letter on 9 July again  made it clear that the recommendation was to leave 
his benefits in the OPS and it made Mr S aware that he would now be treated as an insistent 
client as he chose to continue with the transfer. So overall Im satisfied that Mr S would have 
understood that he was going against Pacifics advice when he proceeded. 
However, on the whole  I do have concerns  about  Pacific actions here. On the accompanying 
letter to the suitability report they do say they recommend Mr S to retain  his OPS benefits 
but then also immediately give him instructions on how he can proceed against their 
recommendation. I think an adviser  would usually expect his client to follow  his advice,  so 
showing him a way how to proceed against  their advice  straight  away  doesnt seem to be 
acting in the clients interest. 
In his letter Mr S then used the exact  same  words that Pacific had suggested. He just said 
that he wanted to proceed.  It didnt  give any reasons  why. Whilst it looks  like he wrote the 
letter himself  (rather  than Pacific giving him a letter to sign) I dont consider that he was 
using his own words.  He simply reiterated  what Pacific  had said they needed him to say if he 
wanted to proceed. This should have prompted  Pacific to probe Mr S on his reasons why he 
still wanted to proceed  and make sure he understood the risks of going against Pacifics  
advice. Particularly because - as far as I can see - Pacific hadnt discussed the findings in 
their report  with Mr S. I appreciate that there was a phone call on 6 July, however Pacific 
wasnt able to provide  a call recording or any notes about what  exactly  was discussed during 
this conversation. 
Looking at the follow up letter I think it was likely confirmed in the phone  call that Mr S 
wanted to go ahead  and that he was informed he would be treated as an insistent client. 
With regards to Mr Ss reasons for proceeding the letter just says that Mr S wanted to take 
advantage of the overseas investment opportunity. 
I dont doubt that Mr S still wanted to proceed.  However, based  on what Ive seen Im not 
satisfied that Pacific gave  him enough information to allow him to make an informed decision 
and fully understand the risks of his planned  actions.  Pacifics  key reasons for not 
recommending the transfer were mainly based on the critical yield that needed  to be 
achieved by the SIPP to match Mr Ss OPS  benefits.  Pacific  said it was unlikely that the 
critical yield would be achieved in a personal  pension and if it wasnt  achieved  Mr S would 
have reduced benefits. 
I think the most likely  reason that Mr S wanted  to proceed was the Harlequin investment 
promised attractive returns.  I think this should  have been clear to Pacific. When Mr S wanted 
to proceed against  Pacifics recommendation he should have been told in clear and non-
misleading terms that he was giving up very secure and valuable benefits  in his OPS  and 
Ref: DRN445428914instead he was investing in a non-standard,  highly  speculative  investment which  could not 
just mean  that he might  be worse off in retirement but that there was a real risk of losing the 
majority or all of his funds. 
Together with his previous investment from his personal pension into Harlequin, Mr S was 
about to invest  all his retirement savings into one undiversified investment. Pacific  should 
have made  it clear to Mr S that the Harlequin investment was too high risk for his 
circumstances, that he couldnt afford any significant losses to his retirement provisions so 
close to retirement and that he simply shouldnt invest. Pacific should have known Mr Ss 
planned actions  werent in his best interest.
 
Pacific pointed out that in their original suitability  letter in February  2010  under risk warnings 
they had stated: your  investment is very high risk and you could lose all your funds. So 
they say Mr S would  have  known the Harlequin  investment was high risk. However,  in the 
same letter Pacific pointed out several times  that they werent  advising Mr S on the 
investment and this warning was included on page 10 of a 11-page letter  amongst a list of 
generic investment warnings. It wasnt  prominent or explained why the Harlequin investment 
would be high risk. And at no point was it explained that the investment was unsuitable  for 
Mr S.
The only mention of investment risk in the later suitability report  in June 2010 was at the end 
of the 12-page letter where Pacific says it wouldnt be in your interest  to subject [your  
pension savings] to the significant  level of risk presented by the investment opportunity. 
However, it doesnt explain what these risks are or that the investment could lead to 
significant losses. 
In the letter  of 9 July Pacific included another list of generic  investment risks. There  was also 
a bullet-point list of risks relating  to off-plan overseas investments. However, I dont  think any 
lay person would  have  understood these without more detailed  explanations or that that 
these risks could lead to major losses and why.
They also mentioned that the property he intended  to buy was being sold at a higher price  
than the funds he was transferring into the SIPP. This meant he had to make additional 
contributions or be able to borrow against  the value of the assets in the SIPP  to meet  the 
final stage payments towards the property. Pacific  warned that Mr S had to understand that 
this carried a significant risk as the ability to borrow would be affected  by several factors 
including the market value of the property and lending conditions. In the worst-case scenario 
Mr S could be left personally liable  to complete the purchase with funds outside  of his SIPP. 
Pacific said in the letter that they supposed Mr Ss decision  to transfer as an insistent  client  
meant he was prepared to accept  those risks.
I appreciate that this sets out one specific risk for the Harlequin investment. But again Im not 
satisfied that this would have given  Mr S a full understanding  of the complexities of this non-
standard investment which was only suitable for the most experienced investors. Also I 
consider that any warning  like this should have been included  in the original suitability  letter 
before Mr S made his decision whether to proceed  or not. 
Based on what Ive seen  it looks like Pacific didnt  do enough to ensure Mr S understood the 
full risk he was taking by transferring his OPS  benefits into a SIPP and invest into Harlequin. 
They quickly  accepted  Mr Ss wish to proceed  although they should have been aware that 
his planned investment was unsuitable  for him. Pacific should have made it clearer  to Mr S 
Ref: DRN445428915that the Harlequin investment was unsuitable for his circumstances  and that he shouldnt 
invest. By not doing this they didnt act in his best interest.  
 
Instead they recommended the same  SIPP to him as before. I also see some  conflict  of 
interest here. Pacifics  fees were paid from the SIPP, so they had a business  interest  for 
Mr S to transfer his pension into the SIPP. 
In summary,  I dont think Mr S can be treated as a truly insistent client  as I dont think Pacific 
gave him all the information they should  have done  or acted  in his best interest.
Pacifics comments  after my PD and my findings
Pacific says as I acknowledged  their advice not to transfer was suitable and Mr S knew he 
was acting against this advice, its irrational  to say he wasnt truly an insistent client.  They  
also say - similar to the 2013 alert - the 2015 factsheet by the regulator  concerning  insistent 
clients shouldnt be taken  into account as it was published after the advice was given. The 
factsheet is not evidence of industry  practice in 2010 and I had acknowledged in my PD that 
COBS 9 didnt  include  a specific rule about insistent clients.  In any event, theres no 
indication that Mr S didnt  himself type the letter in which he said he wished to proceed.
Pacific also disagree that their accompanying letter to the suitability report breached COBS 
2.1 by giving Mr S instructions on how he could proceed against their recommendation. This 
part of the letter wasnt a recommendation, advice or an instruction which  Mr S would have 
relied on; it was just reinforcing that he would be going against Pacifics  advice if he 
proceeded.
My view remains that Pacifics process  here wasnt in Mr Ss best interest and I dont think  
they treated  him fairly. I dont doubt  that Mr S knew he was acting against Pacifics  advice 
and it wasnt my intention to imply that he didnt write the letter himself nor that Pacifics 
letter was an instruction or advice for Mr S to go against their recommendation.
However, Pacific told Mr S what they required if he wanted to go against  their 
recommendation, so they already anticipated this scenario.  I appreciate that they say they 
knew Mr S was being advised by F. However knowing Mr S was being  influenced  by a third 
party, I think this was even more reason for them to ensure that Mr S understood why Pacific  
was recommending against  the transfer.  And based  on his short  letter simply repeating  the 
words Pacific had suggested,  I dont  think they could have reasonably been satisfied Mr S 
fully understood  the risks of proceeding.  As said before I also dont  think  Pacific made the 
risks of investing into Harlequin or the unsuitability of it for Mr S clear enough.
I mentioned the 2015 factsheet as this reminded advisers of good practice when keeping 
their clients  best interest in mind. Pacifics obligations dont stem from this factsheet. These  
are things that Pacific  should have considered in order to treat Mr S fairly and act in his best 
interest as set out in COBS 2.1 and in the Principles.  Its also worth mentioning that as far 
back as 1994,  during  the industry-wide pension review, the regulator at the time made it 
clear that insistent clients should be fully counselled  on the implication of their choice and 
that the customers decision to override the advisers recommendation is also credibly 
evidenced. So none of the good practice  I referred  to is new. Pacific  had just given Mr S a 
recommendation not to transfer. They knew Mr S didnt  have  the capacity to take this high 
risk with his pension. So when he then told them without any real reasoning  that he was 
ignoring their recommendation they should  have done more to ensure  he did understand the 
Ref: DRN445428916consequences of his actions, particularly in respect to the risk he was taking with the 
Harlequin investment.  
Pacific says I should point  to evidence that Mr S didnt know about the risks he was taking. I 
did acknowledge in my PD that Pacific did point out some of the risks. However, looking at 
the information Pacific  provided to Mr S I dont think they pointed out in clear  and strong  
enough terms that the Harlequin investment wasnt suitable for him and risks he was taking 
on. I dont think  the information they provided would have given a lay person like Mr S a full 
understanding of the complexities of a non-standard  investment which was only suitable for 
the most  experienced investors.  I cant see that - other than the need  to finance the 
completion funds- the risks of the investment were properly explained in detail. And 
especially once Mr S was planning to act against their recommendation, they should have 
probed his reasons for this further.
Mr S says he proceeded because he had been  told that all due diligence had been  done on 
the investment  and as the first property looked good, he thought  it was worth proceeding 
with a second one. He says he was told he could possibly retire  early at 62 and it was an 
opportunity to take his family  on holiday to a luxury resort. I think its likely this information  
was given to Mr S by F and not by Pacific. 
However, if Pacific had probed Mr S on his reasons for transferring against their advice as 
they should have, they likely  would  have realised that Mr Ss reasons to invest were based  
on having been given positive messages about the investments by F. To enable  him to make  
an informed decision Pacific should have made much clearer  what  benefits he was giving up 
and what specific high risks the investment entailed to allow him to properly weigh up the 
benefits and risks. As I said in my PD, although a phone  call seems to have taken place on 6 
July, the content  of it is unknown and I cant see that Pacific discussed and explained their 
findings to Mr S in detail  to ensure he fully understand he was investing into something very 
high risk that wasnt suitable for him.
Pacific also disagrees with my finding  that there was a conflict of interest  as Pacific was paid 
from the SIPP. They say contingent charging was only banned recently and was common  
practice at the time. They say I didnt consider that they advised  against the DB transfer to 
their own financial detriment. And that I failed to identify any other suitable SIPP  than the 
one they recommended  to Mr S. If Pacific  had recommended a new SIPP Mr S would have 
been charged even more  fees as double the administration  charges  would  apply.
Pacific is right that contingent charging  was common  practice at the time. And in different 
circumstances this might not have  been  an issue. However, there was no need for Pacific  to 
recommend a SIPP to Mr S at all at this stage. He already had a SIPP which  held his first 
Harlequin investment,  so he simply could have transferred his pension  into the existing SIPP  
once Pacific had given their advice  not to transfer. Its true that Pacific  would have  suffered  
financial detriment by advising  against  the transfer if Mr S had followed that advice.  And 
thats exactly my point. It was in Pacifics interest  for Mr S to proceed in any event. If they 
had acted in Mr Ss best interest they wouldnt have given him a SIPP  recommendation he 
didnt need which led to further  charges to him on a transaction that was already going  
against his best interest.  So in my view they put their own interests above those of Mr S.
would Mr S have transferred anyway? and Role of other parties
In my PD I said:
Ref: DRN445428917I dont think Pacific met their obligations towards  Mr S either  when they gave advice in 
February 2010 or when they advised him about  the pension  transfer  later that year.
I carefully considered  whether I think Mr S would have transferred  his pension in any event 
like Pacific have suggested. However, on balance I dont think  he would have  done.  Ill 
explain why.
Ive taken into account that by the time Mr S was introduced to Pacific  in February 2010, F 
had already advertised the Harlequin investment  to him and the suggestion to use his 
pension funds had been made. I can also see that a day after Pacific gave their advice in 
February, Mr S signed the Harlequin contracts  witnessed by F. Its likely that by this point 
Mr S had already  reserved a property and paid a reservation fee of £1,000. Ive also 
considered that Mr Ss wife worked for F and Mr S told us that he knew  F socially. So I think 
its likely  that Mr S and his wife put some trust into F and what  he told them about Harlequin. 
So I can see the argument Pacific is making.  Mr S had already made the decision to transfer 
his pensions and invest them into Harlequin,  the investment was lined up and ready to go 
and F would have some influence over Mr S during this time so he might have listened more  
to the person he knew than the Pacific  adviser.
Its likely  that F would  have focussed  on the positives of the Harlequin investment. As well as 
being a financial  adviser he was also setting  up his own company promoting overseas  
property investments. Mr S says he was told about better  returns, the ability  to retire at 62 
and it would give him somewhere to take his family on holiday. So Im sure all of this would  
have looked attractive  to him. 
However, I dont think Mr S was at a point where  he couldnt have changed his mind.  If 
Pacific had clearly told him that the SIPP  and the Harlequin investment were  unsuitable  for 
him explaining that this was a specialist high-risk  investment  which meant there  was a real 
risk of losing  large parts of his pension I think its likely he wouldnt have wanted to continue.  
I appreciate it can be difficult sometimes to backtrack from a plan particularly when a deposit 
had already been paid.  But if Mr S had received full information on the risks of the 
investments and a clear  recommendation  not to proceed from an independent financial 
adviser like Pacific, I think on balance he would have decided  to protect his pension funds 
even if that meant losing a £1,000 deposit.  Ive also asked Mr S whether F offered him any 
loans or other monetary  incentives to invest into Harlequin. Mr S said he didnt and I have no 
reason or evidence  to make me think this isnt correct.  
Of course I dont know for certain what Mr S would  have done. But on balance,  I think, if 
Pacific had given suitable  advice in February  2010  Mr S would have decided  not to invest  
into Harlequin and would  have left his pensions where they were. And the second advice 
later that year wouldnt have happened.
I appreciate Pacific says both advice processes were separate  transactions, however of 
course they are linked and cannot be regarded as unconnected events. There was a delay 
of receiving the benefit details from the OPS  administrators which is why both transfers 
didnt happen  at the same time.  
However, even if I regarded the second advice process independently,  the same 
considerations apply as before. If Pacific  had given Mr S all the information he needed, I 
dont think he would  have  transferred his OPS benefits. 
Ref: DRN445428918As indicated  earlier in this decision Im aware  that the idea to invest in Harlequin and to use 
pension funds to make this investment originally came from F. He was also a regulated 
adviser and had the same obligations  when advising  a client as Pacific. I think  its likely that 
F gave Mr S advice - whether formally or informally.  
However, this doesnt absolve Pacific from their obligations. Even if Mr S had received  
advice from F, they still needed to ensure that their own advice to Mr S was suitable. From 
what Ive seen they wouldnt have known what F had told Mr S about HarIequin and using 
his pensions; and based on the information  they had it should have been  clear  that the 
transfer to a SIPP and the investment into high risk investments like this were unsuitable in 
Mr Ss circumstances.
If Pacific  had acted appropriately, I dont  think  Mr S would be in the situation he is now. So I 
think its fair to hold them responsible for Mr Ss losses.  I can only look at the complaint that 
has been brought to us which is against Pacific.  Whether other parties  - like F or the SIPP 
provider - might also be responsible for the same losses  is a distinct matter,  which  I am not 
able to determine here. However, that fact should  not impact on Mr Ss right to 
compensation from Pacific for the full amount of his loss. Pacific is free to pursue other 
parties for some of these losses once theyve compensated  Mr S in full.
Pacifics comments  after my PD and my findings
Pacific says its irrational to say that they caused Mr Ss losses when its clear  that Mr S was 
obviously trusting Fs advice over the advice given by Pacific.  He had no previous dealings  
with Pacific, but personally knew F who was involved from the outset and until the end of the 
process. The second property was only chosen  and reserved after Pacific had given their 
advice and F was involved here too. The second  property wasnt  within  contemplation of 
Pacific when they gave  their advice. They say this means they cant  be held liable for losses  
flowing from the second investment as Mr S didnt rely on Pacific when making his decision 
to invest.
Pacific also mentions that they were  removed as servicing agents on the SIPP by Mr S 
shortly after the transactions and assumes  that F was appointed instead. Mr S says he didnt 
actively remove any advisers,  but Pacific argues that Mr S must have signed relevant 
instructions. Pacific is of the opinion that the role of F hasnt properly been investigated or 
scrutinised by this service.
Pacific says theres no evidence to support  the finding that F likely would have focussed  on 
the positives of the investment.  Mr S in fact said that he was told by F all due diligence  had 
been done, with information on possible returns and risks. Also,  F was a regulated  adviser 
working for a large network  and so they query  what evidence there is that F would  have only 
focussed on the positives. Furthermore, Pacific says the PD failed to have regard to the 
principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own decisions.
I dont know what exactly F told Mr S about the risks of the Harlequin  investments. However,  
as explained in my PD, F was setting up his own business to promote overseas property  and 
according to Mr S, he also had invested  himself in Harlequin. So I think  its reasonable to 
assume F thought  this kind of investment was a good idea and would have promoted it as 
such. This is not to say that risks wouldnt have been mentioned at all. However, I think if the 
full risks of the investment  had been  explained  to Mr S by F, I dont think  he would  have 
wanted to proceed. Based  on the information  provided, he wasnt  a high risk or experienced 
investor. Mr S says he was told about  the ability to retire  early and having a holiday home for 
Ref: DRN445428919the family,  which I think supports that Mr S was left with a positive impression of the 
investment. More importantly, I cant see that Pacific explored  how much Mr S actually was 
told previously or understood about the risks. 
I considered the relationship between Mr S and F and carefully  thought about whether he 
would have acted  differently if Pacific had given him stronger and clearer warnings and 
ensured he properly  understood  the consequences  and risks of his actions. And my view 
remains that on balance  I think  he would have acted differently. I agree that there  was a 
more personal relationship between F and Mr S than between him and Pacific  and Ive taken 
into account that F was involved  in arranging the investments  for Mr S. So I think Mr S was 
in the first instance  more likely to listen to what F was telling him. 
However, Pacific knew there  was a third party involved in the background and so when Mr S 
wanted to go against their recommendation and proceed with a transaction  that wasnt in his 
best interest without giving any explanation,  they should have probed his motives  further.  If 
they had properly explained  all the risks to him and made sure he understood that there  was 
a real chance he could lose all his pension and that he categorically shouldnt  be doing this 
as this was a high risk, complex and non-standard investment only suitable for high risk 
investors - which Mr S wasnt  - as well as giving up valuable benefits in the DB scheme, I 
think on balance he wouldve listened.  As I said before, its likely he hadnt been told all this 
before in detail,  so I think a focus  on the real risks he was planning  to take on would have 
given him a more  realistic  picture.
The second  property might not have  been selected yet when  Pacific  gave their advice in 
June 2010, however they knew Mr S wanted  to invest his OPS benefits into Harlequin. And 
whether he had used these  funds towards his first property or a second  one doesnt change 
the fact that he should have been more  clearly informed of the risks of the investment. 
As this was an advice  setting Pacific was obliged to make suitable recommendations and act 
in Mr Ss best interest.  A customer  isnt prevented  from going  against the advisers  advice 
and proceeding as an insistent client. If they are given all the necessary information to 
understand the reasons  of the advisers  recommendation  and the risks and consequences of 
their intended action, then they are responsible for their own actions.  However, as explained  
earlier in this decision, I dont think Pacific gave  Mr S enough information to allow him to 
make an informed decision and therefore be treated as a genuine insistent client.
In summary,  I still remain of the view that Pacific is responsible for Mr Ss losses.
putting things right
In my PD I set out the following  redress:
Mr S should  - as much as possible - be put in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
transferred his pensions  into the SIPP and invested his funds into Harlequin. I think  Mr S 
would have kept his existing pensions  and not have  opened  a SIPP  or invested into 
Harlequin.
To do this Pacific should:
A-Obtain the current  notional transfer  value  of Mr Ss personal pension at date of 
calculation assuming that it had not been  transferred to the SIPP.  
Ref: DRN445428920If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional valuations then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index) should  be used.  Its a fair measure for someone  
who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
B-Obtain the value of Mr Ss OPS benefits.  This should be calculated  in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using 
the most  recent financial  assumptions published  at the date of that decision. In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted 
to an appropriate  provider promptly following receipt of notification  of Mr Ss 
acceptance of the decision.
Pacific may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mr Ss contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  
or S2P). These details  should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  
scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
C-Pay a commercial value to buy the Harlequin investment 
The SIPP only exists because of the investments in Harlequin. In order  for Mr S to be 
able to close the SIPP and stop paying ongoing  charges, the Harlequin investments 
need to be removed from Mr Ss SIPP. The valuation of the Harlequin  investments 
may prove difficult as there is no market for them. For calculating compensation, 
Pacific should agree  an amount with the SIPP provider as a commercial value. It 
should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs  and take ownership of the 
investments.
If Pacific  is unable  to buy Mr Ss investments in Harlequin, it should give them  a nil 
value for the purposes of calculating compensation. In this instance Pacific may ask 
Mr S to provide an undertaking  to account  to it for the net amount of any payments he 
may receive  from the Harlequin investment. That undertaking should  allow  for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr S may receive from the investments 
and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Pacific will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Pacific then needs to obtain the actual  transfer  value of Mr Ss SIPP  as at the date of 
calculation, allowing for any outstanding  charges and taking into account any nil value 
given to the Harlequin investment (or commercial  value  paid into the SIPP  for that 
investment).
D-Calculate Mr Ss loss as A+B-C and pay this sum into Mr Ss SIPP.
This payment should take account  of any available tax relief and the effect  of 
charges. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  
with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension plan isnt possible or has protection  or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly  to Mr S as a lump sum after making  a notional 
Ref: DRN445428921deduction to allow for income  tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  25% of the 
loss would be tax-free  and 75% would  have been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.                                                                
E-Pay five years  worth  of future fees owed by Mr S to the SIPP; if the Harlequin  
property cannot  be purchased.
Had Pacific  given  suitable advice the SIPP would  not exist. Its not fair that Mr S 
continues to pay any annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. To provide certainty to all 
parties, I think its fair that Pacific pays Mr S an upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five 
years worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using  the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. 
There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide 
Mr S with some confidence  that he will not be subject to further fees.
In my view, awarding a lump  sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees strikes a 
fair balance. Its possible that the Harlequin investment could be removed from the 
SIPP in less than five years. But given the time it has taken to date I think it is 
possible that it could take a number of years more  to resolve  all of the issues.  So 
using a figure of five years worth of fees is an approximate and fair award to resolve  
the issue now.
F-Mr S has been caused a great  deal of distress by the loss of his pension benefits. He 
cant work due to medical problems  and has no pension income that he can rely on. 
This has caused him severe financial hardship. Pacific should  pay Mr S £1000 in 
compensation for this. This payment  should be made directly  to Mr S.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within  90 days of the date 
Pacific receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to any unpaid  amounts of compensation at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that it 
takes Pacific to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Pacifics comments  after my PD and my findings
Pacific says the direction to agree a commercial  value  with the SIPP  provider and then take 
ownership of the investments is outside  of this services power  and unenforceable  for the 
following reasons:
The parties to the Harlequin contracts  are the SIPP trustees and Mr S and not the 
SIPP provider. The purchase of the investment would require a novation of the 
Harlequin contracts which Harlequin  might not allow. 
Theres a lack of uncertainty as the direction  is for Pacific  to agree a commercial 
value with a third party.
Ref: DRN445428922If the direction  is followed through, this would involve Pacific  assuming Mr Ss 
(contingent) liability to pay Harlequin the future staged payments under the Harlequin 
contracts. These  payments would exceed the £150,000 statutory cap on money  
awards and this service  doesnt  have the power to make a direction which requires  
Pacific to make a payment in excess of the statutory  cap.
I do understand Pacifics  concerns. There are other  parties involved in the operation of the 
investment and I appreciate that Pacific  might be prevented from buying it. So its possible 
that Pacific might  not be able to follow this direction.
I also acknowledge Pacifics point  about them possibly having  to take on Mr Ss liabilities 
under the Harlequin contracts. Mr Ss SIPP has paid deposits under the two Harlequin 
contracts. Mr S will have agreed  for the SIPP to pay the remainder of the purchase price 
under that contract.  Those sums have not yet been paid. If Pacific takes over the contract 
from the SIPP, then it may be liable  for the remaining amount of the purchase prices in the 
unlikely event that the developments do proceed. So when added to the loss Pacific will be 
compensating Mr S for now, the combined  sum may exceed the total award  I can make of 
£150,000. If the total compensation does exceed  £150,000 (which is likely in this case) then 
I cant require Pacific  to take over the contract  from Mr Ss SIPP.
Equally, if Mr S keeps  the investment and the properties are completed,  Harlequin could 
require those payments  to be made  which would be further losses  to him. I think its unlikely 
that the property  will be completed, so I dont think there will be further loss. But there  might  
be. Mr S needs to understand this, and that he wont be able to bring  a further  complaint  to 
us if this contract is called  upon.
Having said all that, I explained what Pacific should do if agreeing  a commercial value and 
buying the investments isnt possible,  i.e. they should use a nil value for the investment in 
their calculations. So in any event they will be able to calculate  and pay compensation for 
Mr S. And to acknowledge that removing the investments from the SIPP might  be a 
complicated process which could take some time, I asked Pacific  to cover five years worth  
of SIPP  fees which I still think  is fair for reasons set out previously.
Pacific also challenged  the £1,000 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. They 
say when he complained in 2016 Mr S said he was 64 and continued  to work, not that he 
had to stop working due to ill health as stated in my PD. They  also say Mr S would have 
started to draw his state pension and related state  benefits a year later and the fact that he 
cannot work due to ill health isnt Pacifics  fault.  They also challenge how I can make  such  
an award when  Mr S chose to ignore  Pacifics  warnings in October 2010 about investing the 
funds in his SIPP into a second  property  instead  of leaving a proportion  in cash. If he had 
done that he could have  drawn some retirement income from the SIPP.
Mr Ss circumstances have changed  since he complained in 2016.  His representatives  told 
us that hes been facing  financial hardship and now isnt able to work due to ill health which  I 
have no reason to doubt.
I appreciate that in a letter in October  2010 when Pacific received the paperwork for the 
second property,  they told Mr S that if he wanted  to retire he would have to sell the 
properties; whereas  if he left a proportion in cash he could draw  some tax-free cash.  
However, I cant see that this was a formal recommendation. And even if he had left some  of 
his funds in cash  at this point,  the key issue is that in my view Mr S wouldnt have transferred 
Ref: DRN445428923his pensions at all if Pacific had given him suitable advice and would now have a secured 
income from his DB pension as well as an additional income from his personal pension.  
So the distress and financial hardship he experiences is caused by Pacifics failings. With his 
DB scheme  he could  have retired at 63 and he could have drawn  benefits  from his personal 
pension at the time if he wanted. Instead  he had to continue working and when he couldnt 
do this anymore his financial situation  worsened.  The losses  suffered through  the transfers 
have impacted him for several years and I have no doubt caused him substantial  distress 
and worry. So I think the amount of £1,000 is reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint that was referred to this service before 1 April 2019 but on or 
after 1 January 2012, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up 
to £150,000 plus any interest that I think is appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is 
more than £150,000 I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Pacific IFA Limited must pay Mr S the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 plus interest on that 
£150,000 as described above if payment is made  more than 90 days  after this decision.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000 I recommend that Pacific  IFA Limited pay Mr S the balance plus interest on 
that balance as described above if payment is made  more than 90 days after decision. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Pacific  IFA Limited  doesnt  
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court  
to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to get independent legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  the final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4454289