K821x#15complaint
Mr As complained about Imperial Law Practitioners,  trading as Amity Lawyers (Amity), and 
the handling of cases he instructed them to pursue on his behalf.
background
Mr A instructed Amity to pursue a number of matters for him. Hes complained  Amity have 
acted unreasonably when dealing with the following:
The closure of his personal and business  accounts with lender S.
Fraudulent use of his personal details to open  an account with lender B.
Complaints  about  government organisations and their conduct towards him.
The transfer of his professional registration from one primary care trust (PCT) to 
another.
Mr A said Amity  mishandled his cases meaning none of his matters were  concluded in the 
four years they worked for him. He said Amity also didnt release all his paperwork, despite 
him asking  them to do so. This meant  he cant progress his cases any further. So, Mr A feels 
Amity have wasted his time and money.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
Our investigator thought Amitys service hadnt  been useful to Mr A. He said Amitys failure 
to progress matters effectively added to the trouble and upset Mr A had already experienced 
before instructed them. Because of this, he said Amity should reimburse any fees Mr A paid 
them, including court fees,  and pay him an additional £500 to recognise the trouble and 
upset their failures had caused.
Mr A agreed with the investigator but didnt agree with his recommendation. Mr A thought  
Amity should be fined  a greater amount to ensure they didnt provide the same level of 
service to other customers. As Mr A rejected the recommendation, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Before I explain my decision, I confirm that Ive considered Mr As comments about  the 
investigators wording of his view when making  my decision. As Mr A accepted  the 
investigators view but rejected the recommendation on what Amity should do to put things 
right, and because  Amity didnt reply, my decision focuses on what  I think  Amity should  do to 
resolve Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN44158952Its not the role of the Claims Management  Ombudsman to fine or punish companies for their 
actions; this is the role of the regulator   the Financial Conduct Authority. Because  of this Im 
looking to put Mr A back into the position he wouldve been if Amitys service had been 
reasonable, and to compensate him for any trouble  and upset he was caused  because of 
this service. 
Mr A instructed Amity to represent him on a number of matters in 2014. From what  Ive seen, 
I dont think any of these  matters have been  progressed to the standard Id expect.
Regarding Lender  S, Amity didnt respond to the Financial Ombudsman Services  request for 
a copy of Mr As complaint letter. This led to Mr A having to write to Lender S to begin  the 
process again a year later.  Mr A paid Amity an upfront  fee to pursue this matter, but they 
didnt do this. So I think Mr A should be reimbursed for the fee he paid.
Mr A also paid an upfront  fee to Amity to pursue  his complaint against Lender B. Amity told 
Mr A this complaint would be better  processed  through the court.  They let the first court  
action expire and said they made  a new claim in March 2018. But, after contacting the courts  
directly, Mr A was told this claim wasnt made at all. 
Amity didnt progress Mr As claims as agreed when taking the upfront fee, so this should be 
refunded to him. Ive also seen that Mr A paid £308.00 to cover  the costs of the second court 
application. As this application wasnt made,  this should also be refunded to Mr A.
In 2014 Amity were also instructed to contact three government organisations regarding Mr 
As belief  he was being treated unreasonably.  From  what  Ive seen, Amity wrote to two of 
these. One organisation was contacted in 2014. A response received a month later,  but 
Amity did nothing with this. The other  was contacted in 2018  - a delay of four years  but no 
response was ever received and I havent seen evidence of any action being taken since. 
For the remaining  case, Ive seen no evidence  that any letter was ever sent.
So, I dont think Amity progressed any of these cases  effectively  and no work of value has 
been done. So Mr A finds  himself  in the same  situation he was in before he instructed Amity. 
I think this is unreasonable and a significant waste of his time.
In 2017 Mr A instructed Amity to make  investigations into why his professional registration 
was transferred. He provided the necessary information to Amity on two occasions  over the 
next six months. In January 2018, Amity requested a new letter  of authority as six months 
had passed since  the first one was signed.  
I wouldve  expected  Amity to issue a letter to the relevant organisation as soon as they had 
all the information  they needed.  Their lack of action  has again caused  a long delay and Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr A has ever received  a response. I think  this is unreasonable.
Throughout the four years  they acted for him, Ive seen  that Mr A chased Amity for updates  
and often didnt  receive a response. That wouldve  been frustrating and added to the 
annoyance caused by his cases  not progressing. 
When considering  the substantial  delays  Amity have caused, together  with their poor 
communication, Mr A has suffered a significant  amount of trouble and upset throughout the 
four years. For these reasons, I agree that Amity should compensate Mr A £500  to recognise 
this.
Ref: DRN44158953putting things right
Amity should:
Refund the initial fees taken from Mr A plus 8% simple interest from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund.
Refund Mr A any additional  court fees he paid plus 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of refund.
Pay Mr A an additional £500 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr As complained about Imperial  Law 
Practitioners, trading  as Amity Lawyers. They  must follow  the directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Joshua Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4415895