K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wont  agree, as their interest only 
mortgage has matured,  to extending the term for five years. Mr and Mrs B would like to be 
compensated for the cost and stress  of arranging to return to the UK expecting  that they 
could extend the mortgage term.
background
Mr and Mrs B live abroad but retain a property in the UK. They  have an interest  only 
mortgage with BoS which matured on 1 June 2019 and wanted to know  what  their options 
were in advance  of this happening. Mr B spoke to BoS in 2016  and 2018  and understood 
that he would be able to agree a five year extension to the term on maturity if they returned 
to the UK. Mr and Mrs B arranged to return but when  in April they found out that they 
couldnt get such an extension they cancelled their travel and associated  arrangements.  Mr 
and Mrs B say they cancelled these because if the only option was to sell the property and 
they were living  in the UK they would face a Capital Gains Tax charge.
Our investigator didnt  believe  that BoS had done anything wrong and didnt recommend that 
this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and say that Mr Bs conversations 
with BoS in 2016 and 2018 should be listened to as evidence that BoS were agreeable to an 
extension of the interest only mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B were  concerned that when their 20 year interest only mortgage  matured  in 
June 2019 that they would face the immediate prospect of BoS repossessing their property. 
So Mr B had a number of conversations  with BoS advisers about  their options. I listened 
carefully to two of these  conversations  in January 2016 and December 2018. Mr and Mrs Bs 
situation wasnt entirely straightforward. Although they had a residential mortgage, they lived 
abroad and no longer  lived in the house.  They had rented the property out and there was a 
retail unit and an apartment below in the same property but not covered by BoSs security. 
I noted that the BoS advisers that Mr B spoke to put Mr and Mrs B at ease with their 
concerns about  immediate repossession.  I took from the call in December 2018 that Mr and 
Mrs B could look at a number of options  if they could not pay off the mortgage  by then. If Mr 
and Mrs B were to sell the property  it was likely that BoS would allow them  a period to do so. 
I noted that there was an extended  discussion as to the length of that period and that BOS 
may allow them a six month period to get the property ready for sale and up to a further  year 
to sell it. Mr and Mrs B had the option  of applying for a repayment mortgage  but this was 
complicated by the fact that the residential  mortgage  was being used as a buy to let. It was 
in this context that I understood  the adviser to say that in order  to apply for a repayment 
mortgage that they would need to return and live in the property to be able to do so. I can 
understand the sense of that.
I noted that in the first conversation in 2016 that the adviser mentioned the possibility of an 
interest only extension  for one to five years. But this was an exploratory conversation by 
Ref: DRN46341112which I mean that a number of options were  explored but no definite commitments were  
given. So I dont believe that Mr and Mrs B could fairly  assume that BoS was making a 
commitment that after maturity a five year extension would have been  available to Mr and 
Mrs B. 
The second  phone call in December 2018 was also exploratory. On listening to that 
conversation I noted that because of Mr and Mrs Bs rather unusual  circumstances  the 
adviser had to break off the conversation on a number of occasions  for himself to take 
advice. Clearly that affected the continuity of the conversation which  wasnt  ideal for 
absolute clarity. I believe  some confusion arose because the adviser was concerned with 
steps Mr and Mrs B should  take to regularise their residential mortgage if they wanted to 
apply for a repayment mortgage whereas Mr Bs main concern was with extending the 
interest only. 
This was unfortunate. Whilst I am clear what the adviser was saying I understand why Mr B 
may have  believed that there were other options open to him which in fact arent available, in 
particular the interest  only mortgage extension which he hoped to get. But I have  to accept 
this conversation was exploratory, the general  tone of which  was to put Mr and Mrs B at 
ease and that they wouldnt  face immediate repossession  come June 2019. BoS werent  
making commitments that all of these  options  would be available  to Mr and Mrs B but that 
their situation could be looked  at when the time came to do so. 
I dont believe that there  was an attempt to mislead Mr B and, in any case, in good time 
before June, BoS clarified that the interest  only mortgage extension  wouldnt be available 
except for the purposes of selling the property. Mr and Mrs B agreed to repay the capital on 
this mortgage  by June 2019 and BoS has given  them a reasonable time to sell their property 
in order to do so. That seems fair. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs B seem to have arranged  to 
return to the UK in April 2019 on the strength on the December call. But I dont believe that I 
can ask BOS to reimburse  Mr and Mrs B their cost as it gave no commitment that Mr and 
Mrs B would get an interest  only mortgage  if they returned. As the purpose  of Mr and Mrs B 
returning was to regularise their position  in respect  of their residential  mortgage with BoS it 
also seems unfair to require BoS to meet the costs of doing so. 
So, my view is that BoS has done nothing wrong. I note that Mr and Mrs B are selling their 
property and BoS has given them a reasonable period to do so. But for the above reasons I 
cant fairly uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46341113
Ref: DRN4634111