K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited has made a record  of an 
incident Mr P notified it of  but didnt  claim  under his car insurance policy.  Hes also 
unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided a poor service. 
background
Mr P bought a car insurance policy  with the underwriter Advantage in November 2017. In 
March 2018 he called  Advantage to report an incident and his car had been damaged. The 
call ended  before  it was complete. So Advantage didnt get to tell Mr P that even if no claim 
was made,  it would record the notification  and that it may have an impact  on his future 
premium. 
In November 2018 Mr Ps policy with Advantage came  up for renewal and Mr P noticed it 
was about £70 more than the previous year. When he called Advantage about this, he found 
out that the incident in March 2018  had been  recorded and had impacted on his renewal 
premium. 
Mr P was very unhappy  about this. He wanted  Advantage to remove  the notification. He said 
if hed known it would have been recorded, he wouldnt have told Advantage about it. He 
was also unhappy  that hed had to make several  calls to Advantage and didnt receive call 
backs as promised. 
In December 2018 Advantage upheld part of Mr Ps complaint. For failing to call Mr P back 
when promised  and failing to call him back to complete the call in March 2018  - it 
apologised. By way of compensation, Advantage agreed to reduce the renewal premium  
Mr P paid in November 2018 by £118.36.  This was to reflect a lower  premium Mr P could 
have obtained  online. 
But Advantage said it had correctly recorded  the incident. So it didnt remove it. Its policy 
said Mr P must report all incidents. 
Mr P remained unhappy,  so he asked us to look at things for him. He wanted Advantage to 
remove the notification  from his record. 
The investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  He thought 
Advantage had acted  reasonably. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said the compensation of £118.36  was for the poor service Advantage 
provided. Because it failed to resolve  the issues for him in good time, he was tied to 
Advantage for a further year rather than change insurer. He said nothing has been done 
about the notification.  He wants the notification removed  as he feels he will be penalised for 
the next five years because of his honesty.  Mr P says Advantage hasnt compensated him 
for the financial impact  the notification will have. He believes the notification  has been 
recorded in error by Advantage. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN46276462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr P will be disappointed,  but I 
dont intend to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When things go wrong,  we look at what the insurer did to put things right. We take into 
account the impact  any error has had on a customer. 
Mr Ps policy  says that the terms of his policy is based on the information he gives  to 
Advantage. In bold,  it reads:
Please tell us immediately if:
You or any insured  drivers are involved in an accident no matter  how trivial and regardless 
of blame
It also says under the section How your data will be processed;
Under the conditions  of your policy, you must tell us about  any incident (such  as an 
accident or theft) which may or may not give rise to a claim. When you tell us about 
an incident, we will pass information  relating  to it to IDSL (Insurance Database  
Services Limited) and other appropriate  agencies. If false  or inaccurate information
is provided and fraud is identified, details will be passed to fraud protection  
agencies.
I dont find these terms unusual as Ive seen them in most  if not all motor insurance 
policies. So Mr P was obliged to tell Advantage about the incident  even if it didnt result in 
a claim.  Advantages decision to record the incident  was in line with the policy   and what it 
would have done if any other  customer had reported an incident.  So I think  Advantage 
treated Mr P fairly here. 
This means  that  even if Advantage had completed the call in March  2018 with Mr P  the 
outcome would have  been the same. I therefore  dont  agree that the notification  of the 
incident should be removed.
However, because  Advantage didnt call Mr P back in March 2018, it didnt tell him that the 
notification might mean that he pays more for his car insurance  in future. I think  it should  
have done this. And when Mr P called Advantage to discuss  the difference in his premium at 
renewal, Advantage provided  a poor service  by failing to call him back  as promised.  So I can 
see that this caused Mr P inconvenience. 
To put things right for the poor service Advantage gave Mr P, it reduced his renewal 
premium by £118.36. I think this was fair and reasonable as its poor service prevented Mr P 
from being able to shop around  for a lower premium elsewhere at renewal.  However,  I dont 
think Advantage is responsible for compensating  Mr P for any increase in future premiums. 
This is because, as Ive said, I think its correctly recorded the notification of the incident  
Mr P reported in March  2018. 
I understand Mr P is upset about the way Advantage has dealt with his complaint. But overall  
I think Advantage has treated Mr P fairly and in line with the policy.  This means  I dont think 
Advantage needs to do any more. 
Ref: DRN46276463my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627646