K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc said it would charge him an early repayment charge 
(ERC) if he transferred his property  to his brother.
background
Mr A had a mortgage with Santander  for some years. In 2015, he came to the end of an 
interest rate and decided to take a new rate. He contacted Santander, which  offered him a 
new rate having  gone through an advised sale. 
During the advised sale, Mr A said that he was considering transferring the property to his 
brother, with his brother taking over the mortgage.  He wanted to know if he would have to 
pay an early repayment  charge (ERC) if he did so. Santanders adviser  said that would be 
possible, as long as Mr A paid a £140 fee and his brother passed an affordability 
assessment. Acting on that advice, Mr A took a five year product.  The rate switch went 
through at the end of 2015.
In fact, that advice was wrong. If Mr As brother would be added  to the mortgage, there 
would be a £140 fee and no ERC,  as the adviser said.  But to transfer  the property to him 
without Mr A also remaining on the mortgage would  require  Mr As brother to apply for a new 
mortgage to buy the property  off Mr A  and Mr A paying an ERC when his own mortgage 
was redeemed.
In 2016, Mr A contacted Santander. He said he wanted to start the process  of transferring 
the property to his brother, as hed been advised. It was then he learned he would  have to 
pay an ERC after all. So he complained.  Santander  recognised it had made a mistake,  and 
that Mr A had taken  out the five year product relying  on the mistake. So it agreed that it 
would waive the ERC  and allow  the transfer  to go ahead   if Mr As brother successfully  
applied for a mortgage. Santander told Mr A to contact  it by 3 January 2017  if he wanted to 
do this.
Mr A did contact Santander before 3 January 2017. But he wasnt  in a position to make the 
application at that time.  Nothing  more  happened until 2019, when Mr A applied.  Santander 
said it would  no longer allow the transfer without ERC. It had made the offer at the time, but 
Mr A needed  to have  completed it by 3 January 2017.
When Mr A complained to our service, Santander  agreed that it hadnt made it a requirement 
at the time that Mr A complete the application  by 3 January 2017.  All it had said was that he 
had to contact  it by that date to confirm he wanted  to accept the offer.  And hed done that. 
So it said it would agree to waive the ERC,  provided Mr As brother took over the Santander  
mortgage. And it offered £200  compensation.
Mr A said that he and his brother had lost confidence in Santander and didnt want to be its 
customers any more. And in any case they needed to go ahead with the transfer and had 
made arrangements to do so before Santanders  latest offer. When it had told them,  when 
he first complained, that the ERC would be payable even if his brother stayed  with 
Santander, his brother had applied for a mortgage with another lender. By this time his 
brother had committed to the other lender and had paid fees. So they didnt feel they could 
remain with Santander   and didnt think it would  be fair to charge the ERC as a result.
Ref: DRN43251002Our investigator agreed.  She said she understood why Mr A and his brother felt they had no 
choice but to go elsewhere and felt committed to that. She said Santander should waive  the 
ERC even  if the brother  didnt take the mortgage  over. She thought  the offer of £200 was 
fair. Mr A was happy with that outcome.  But Santander didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. It said Mr As brother would never have been able to 
go to another  lender without Mr A paying  an ERC even if the transfer  had gone  ahead in 
2016/17. And while Mr A had taken the product out in reliance on the advice,  he had 
benefited by not being on the standard variable  rate (SVR) in the years  since  2015. It would 
be a double benefit if he also didnt have to pay the ERC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at everything that happened, Im satisfied that poor advice in 2015  is at the 
root of this complaint.  Mr A should  never have been  advised that he could take the product 
and transfer the mortgage  to his brother without incurring an ERC. That would have involved 
him paying back his mortgage, selling the property  to his brother, and the brother taking out 
a new mortgage.  As his mortgage would come  to an end, Mr A would have to pay an ERC. 
This should have  been made  clear  to him at the time.
Generally speaking, when a mistake  has been made, the right thing to do is correct  the 
mistake  not act as if the mistake  was the correct  answer. However, where  as is the case  
here  someone  has acted in reliance on the mistake,  they shouldnt  lose out because  they 
relied on it.
I dont agree with Santander that Mr A has benefitted compared to what he would  have paid 
on the SVR. I dont think thats  a valid comparison. Had Mr A been given correct  advice, I 
think its likely he would  either  have  taken a 2 year rate instead of a 5 year one, or taken an 
ERC-free tracker rate. The choice  wouldnt  have been between a 5 year rate and nothing.  
So a comparison between what hes paid over 5 years and what  he would have paid had he 
stayed on the SVR doesnt add anything to this complaint.
I think Santanders offer to waive the ERC in 2016  was a fair one. Having looked at what he 
was told at the time, I dont think it was made clear that he would have to complete the 
transfer by 3 January 2017. All the final response  said was that he needed  to contact 
Santander by that date to confirm acceptance  of the offer of resolution. 
As Santanders response didnt contain  any deadline for completion, I can understand why 
Mr A thought  Santander would waive the ERC at any point during the product term. And Im 
pleased to note that it accepted this when he complained  to our service  I think  thats fair.
All thats  left for me to decide  here is whether the offer to waive  the ERC should only apply if 
Mr As brother  remains with Santander   or if it should also be waived if he goes elsewhere. 
Given he was in the process of re-mortgaging when the investigator spoke to Mr A recently, 
he may have completed a mortgage  with a new lender by now. 
In light of everything thats happened, including the fact that Santander wasnt  willing to 
waive the ERC when  Mr A complained  in 2019,  I dont think its unreasonable  that he and his 
brother looked  to move elsewhere for his brothers new mortgage. While this isnt something 
he would  have been able to do if hed received  correct advice in 2015, or if he had acted on 
Ref: DRN43251003the resolution immediately in 2016/7, the new mortgage offer was obtained in good  faith in 
the belief that this resolution was no longer available. I dont think  that was unreasonable. 
And in all the circumstances it would be fair for Santander to waive  the ERC.
Im aware that the new mortgage was close to completion when our investigator  last spoke 
to Mr A. Mr A said he couldnt  afford to pay the ERC  and didnt feel able to ask his brother to 
pay it by increasing the balance  on his new mortgage. So he said he would have to take out 
a personal loan to pay it, and wanted  to be compensated for that.
I havent seen  any evidence of additional costs Mr A has incurred, such  as loan interest.  But 
I will direct  Santander to waive the ERC if it hasnt already been paid. And if it has been paid, 
Santander should refund  it together with the standard 8% simple  interest  as compensation 
for being out of pocket. I think its likely 8% interest is more than Mr A has had to pay on a 
personal loan  so if he has had to take one to pay the ERC,  he will be compensated for 
that. Finally, I agree  the offer of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr A 
is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to either:
Waive the ERC when  the mortgage is redeemed,  if it hasnt  been  yet; or
If it has been redeemed, refund the ERC plus simple annual interest of 8%*,  running 
from the date of payment to date of refund;
Pay Mr A £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If Santander considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element  of my award, if 
applicable, it may do so. But it should give Mr A the necessary paperwork, if he asks for it, so that he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN4325100