K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way MBNA Limited (MBNA)  has allocated repayments for two 
balance transfers  on his credit card.
background
Mr G says he agreed to two promotional offers on balance transfers from MBNA, both 
offering a 0% interest rate. The first had the promotional rate until 2020  and the second  until 
2018. 
Mr G says MBNA allocated his monthly  repayments to the first offer which expired after the 
second. This, he says,  is unfair as he was locked  into repaying the first offer. He says this 
was effectively forcing him to pay the 20% interest once the second offer had expired  in 
2018. Mr G wants MBNA  to reallocate all payments made to his balance transfer where the 
promotional offer expires in 2018.
MBNA didnt  agree.  It says Mr G was supplied, and agreed to, the terms and conditions prior 
to being given the promotional rates. Within these terms  it was outlined how payments were 
allocated. These confirmed, when two promotional  rates were  applied to an account of the 
same interest rate, the earliest rate would be paid first. MBNA says it has therefore not made  
an error and it was ultimately  Mr Gs decision to proceed with his application.
An investigator looked into this and thought MBNA hadnt done anything  wrong.  They 
thought the terms  and conditions outlined the way in which  the payments were allocated.  As 
this was clear, the investigator thought it would be unfair for them to hold MBNA responsible.
Mr G disagreed with the investigator as he felt one of the rates  was higher than the other 
due to the timeframes  of the offers. He says it should have been clear when the offer was 
advertised and prior to entering the agreement. As Mr G didnt agree, the matter has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authorities consumer credit  sourcebook (CONC)  sets out the rules  on 
consumer credit. These say that lenders  must allocate credit card repayments  to the debt 
which has the highest interest  rate.
These rules  dont set out how businesses should allocate  payments  to balances charged  at 
the same  rate. This is a decision for the businesses to decide for themselves. Whilst 
I appreciate Mr Gs point, both balances were  set at a 0% interest rate. The term of the offer 
doesnt form the cost but the term in which it expires. So I dont think  MBNA  have  allocated  
payments incorrectly according to the rules set out.
I have read the terms and conditions which were agreed to by Mr G when entering the 
agreement. These clearly  set out in condition 4 how payments are allocated. 
if your account has two or more promotional rates which  are the same:
Ref: DRN42644602We will first pay off the part of the balance that has the earliest promotional rate.
Mr Gs account statements also refer to this condition in the Allocation of Payments 
section. Although in less detail, it does direct you to the above condition  within  the terms.
As this condition was referred to when entering  the agreement and in each of Mr Gs 
statements I dont agree it wasnt clear to him how payments were allocated.  It would 
therefore be unfair of me to say MBNA  have done anything wrong.
MBNA have  acted fairly in the way it has adhered to the terms and given sufficient  
opportunity to Mr G to understand the way in which it allocates payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4264460