K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ)s (Agria) delay in paying her pet 
insurance claims led her to incurring late payment charges from her vet.
My references include  Agrias agent who administers the policy on its behalf.
background
In February 2018  Mrs H took out a lifetime  pet insurance policy for her dog, insured by Agria. 
The policy provides lifetime cover for a condition, if renewed, up to policy  limits. 
Mrs H made  the following  claims through her vet:
March 2018  a claim for £2,542.70
May 2018 a claim for £187.96
June 2018  a claim for £3,457.69
August 2018  a claim for £1,827.31.
Agria asked for more information about  Mrs Hs dog medical history. It paid for all the claims, 
up to the policy limit, on 24 August 2018.
Mrs H complains that Agria  took too long to settle the claims which  resulted  in her incurring 
late payment charges  from the vet of about  £600.
Agria says: it doesnt  insure late payment charges; it had been  waiting for information from 
the vets that it needed to assess the claims,  which was received late; it didnt receive any 
warning that late fees were being  incurred. Agria did accept it had delayed  the claims 
handling between  19 March and 25 June 2018  and offered Mrs H £50 as a goodwill payment 
for the inconvenience  caused by the delay.
Our investigator detailed  why he thought  Agria was responsible for some, but not all, of the 
delays. He recommended  Agria increase its compensation  offer to 50% of the total late 
payment charges Mrs H incurred.
Mrs H accepted our investigators recommendation, although she thought the delays were  
mostly Agrias  fault.
Agria disagreed.  It had various  concerns  about the vet practice charging late payment fees.  
It said an uphold decision by us would send a message  to vet practices that they could 
charge disproportionate late fees to insurers for claim delays when  they have control of 
withholding information from insurers to cause delays.
Our investigator explained that it wasnt our role to decide whether or not in principle a vet 
charging late payment  fees is fair. Instead we consider  the late payment charges part of a 
consumers financial loss and focus on whether or not those fees could have been avoided  
or reduced  if an insurer had acted  differently  in its claim  handling.
Agria wants an ombudsmans decision as it thinks 50% of the late payment charges is too 
much for it to pay.
Ref: DRN49858702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has correctly explained to Agria about our role and focus in this complaint. 
So Im not going to consider whether or not the vet practices late payment charges to Mrs H 
are fair or comment on the fairness of the charges calculation. Those  issues dont fall within 
our remit.  I note Agria is considering taking  separate action about its general concerns about 
the charges.
I have to decide whether Agria's  offer of £50 due to its delay is fair and reasonable, and if 
not a fair amount  it should  pay.
The policy doesnt  specifically  cover  Mrs H for the cost of late payment charges.  But that 
doesnt mean Agria should avoid  responsibility if it reasonably should  have acted differently 
to avoid all or some  those  charges being incurred.
Agria acted reasonably in asking for more medical  information to assess  the claim.  From  the 
timeline Agria provided and correspondence  I don't think Agria was responsible for all of the 
delay. It was waiting  for information from the vets.   
But there are stages where Agria should have been more pro-active with the claim.  Agria 
accepts it should  have been  more  pro-active from 19 March to 25 June 2018. Our 
investigator's opinion letter gave the details  of other delays, which I wont  repeat. In 
summary Agria shouldnt  have waited until mid July to start chasing the information.
If Agria had been  more pro-active the claims could have been  assessed more quickly. But 
I dont think Agria could  have avoided all the delays. Even when  it was being pro-active in 
asking for information  other parties caused delay, which  Agria had no control over.
Even if Agria had been more pro-active I think there  would have been some significant 
unavoidable delay with the claims and some of the late payment charges would still have 
been incurred.
Its difficult to say exactly how long the claims would have taken if Agria had been more  pro-
active. But having reviewed the timeline I dont think  Agria's £50 offer is reasonable. It is fair 
for it to pay 50% of the late payment charges.  
I note our investigator has referred  to the late payment charges being  £631.24,  which I dont 
think is correct as Mrs H gave  the figure as £602.75.  For the avoidance of doubt whichever 
of those two figures  is correct Agria needs  to pay 50%.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) to pay to Mrs H 50% of the late payment 
charges that her vet charged  her in respect of the above claims.
Ref: DRN49858703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4985870