K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about advice he received from Anthony  Feeney Financial  Services 
(AFFS). That was to transfer his pension with Phoenix Life to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) in order to invest in storage pods with StoreFirst.
background
Mr W told us that he was cold called  by an unregulated firm. Then  aged  57, he said that he 
was persuaded  to transfer his pension  as people were making lots of money from investing  
in Store Pods. 
A fact find was completed with details of Mr Ws personal and financial situation. This 
recorded that he:
was unemployed  with no likelihood of this changing in the near future
was a part time carer  receiving income  support
expected to retire at age 67 and was unhappy with his existing frozen pension
was prepared to take high risk as he considered himself as a higher risk investor
understood that to meet his retirement  goal he would need to take higher risk with his 
pension plan and he was happy  to do so
had little understanding of the investment market but liked the idea of a fixed return  
offered by alternative investment
value of his pension was a significant proportion of his financial wealth which he did 
not want to take unnecessary risks
wanted a lump sum from his pension as soon  as possible  
wanted to commence a SIPP to invest in StoreFirst
A financial report was completed. In summary it said:
Mr W had limited knowledge  of investments; however as he already had a pension 
he understood the basics. 
Mr W especially  liked the control  that a SIPP provided. As it would allow him to take a 
much more  active approach in choosing what  he believed to be suitable investment 
rather than the traditional funds he has in his existing  pension.
Mr W was disappointed with the growth of his existing pension and did not see a 
future in traditional  pensions meeting  his retirement goals . Mr W was therefore 
aware that the size of his exiting pension plan would  provide a short  fall which  would 
not enable him to retire comfortably. 
Mr W intended to retire at age 65 but was unable to specify  the level of income  he 
would require. But he wanted to take 25% commencement lump sum from his 
pension immediately. He was at the time entitled  to £6,065.
Mr W required an additional flexible lump  sum to supplement his short term 
capital expenditure and income  requirements.
Mr W did not require an income  at the time 
Ref: DRN41783242AFFS recommended that Mr W transfer  his existing pension fund into a SIPP.  It allowed Mr 
W to take his tax-free cash  and invest in store pods. The report went on to say that Mr W 
had sought advice on the setting up of a SIPP for the intention  of investing  in commercial 
property by transferring  funds from a personal pension. But it added that Mr W had not 
sought advice  in relation to the suitability of the investment as he was an experienced 
investor who understood the additional risks associated with such an investment.
The adviser said he had conducted research to familiarise  himself with the wider investment 
and financial  circumstances of the alternative investment Mr W had shown an interest in. 
Due diligence had also been completed to determine the advantages and disadvantages  of 
the investment.    
The adviser set out some  risks of investing in store pods in his suitability report.  These were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
scheme's assets brings  considerable  risk.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes.
The agreed ATR for Mr W was recorded as Adventurous. This was defined as the 
preference to invest in more specialised stock-market linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.
An application for the SIPP was completed  on 3 December 2013. AFFS was recorded as the 
introducer and adviser for this transaction.   
AFFS wrote to Mr W on 27 March 2013  to let him know that the store pod investment had 
been completed. AFFS also advised  in this letter  that Mr W should invest £3,113.32 into the 
Vanguard LifeStrategy 60% Equity  Fund (Vanguard) to diversify  his portfolio.
On 16 June 2014, AFFS again  wrote  to Mr W. It said it had not yet received the application 
to enable it to invest the funds held in the trustees bank account into Vanguard.  It therefore  
suggested Mr W make arrangements to sign and return the forms.
I understand (from AFFS) that the investment into Vanguard did not go ahead. 
In October  2017, Mr W complained to AFFS. AFFS did not provide a response to the 
complaint. The complaint  was then referred  to this service.
Ref: DRN41783243One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She set out the background which I have 
summarised above. She concluded that the complaint should be upheld. She gave the 
following reasons:
AFFS provided some risk warnings  about  store pods. But as AFFS was giving advice 
it had to give suitable advice. AFFS did not say that investing  in store  pods was 
unsuitable for Mr W.
Suitable advice  could not be given  without considering the investment to be made in 
store pods. 
There were  inconsistencies in the fact find and financial report.  Mr W was described 
as an experienced  investor, but also had a limited  knowledge of investments.
Using Mr Ws assessment of his ATR as adventurous was not reliable. He had very 
little experience of investing. His existing pension was in a with-profits  fund.  Store 
pods posed a much greater risk.
AFFS should have  advised Mr W against the transfer and the investment in store 
pods. If they had done then Mr W would not have invested.
We have received general correspondence  from AFFS. But I havent seen a response about 
this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that the firm had to obtain enough information 
about Mr Ws circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser was required to give suitable advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. 
The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about  the intended investment. I cannot see 
how suitable advice  can be given without thinking about that investment. AFFS knew that 
Mr W intended to invest in store pods.  They  should  have considered whether that was 
suitable for him.
AFFS says that the adviser did set out some risks of investing in store pods in his suitability 
report. These were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
scheme's assets brings  considerable  risk.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
Ref: DRN41783244You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that the investment  store  pods  were a high risk investment. They were not 
regulated. The investments  were potentially illiquid and unsuitable  for Mr W. I think if Mr W 
had been advised not to invest in store pods that he would have followed that advice.
I am satisfied that Mr W thought the store pod investment would improve the pension he 
would receive. I think if Mr W had been  advised not to transfer to the SIPP  that he would 
have followed that advice. 
I think suitable advice  should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice had been 
given I do not see any reason  why Mr W would have  transferred to a SIPP. I think  that 
suitable advice  would  have been to keep his existing pension policy.
fair compensation
AFFS should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr Ws plan with 
Phoenix, if he had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP.  In summary:
Obtain the notional current value of Mr Ws Phoenix plan at the date of this decision if 
it had not been  transferred to the SIPP. I will call the total (A).
Establish the actual  transfer value of Mr Ws SIPP  at the date of this decision, 
including any outstanding charges.
Pay a commercial value to the SIPP provider  to buy Mr Ws StoreFirst holding.
Pay an amount into Mr Ws SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  
(A).This payment should take account  of any available  tax relief and the effect of 
charges.
If AFFS is unable to buy the investment, it should  treat it as having a nil value for the 
purpose of calculating compensation. AFFS may then ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment  the SIPP may receive  from the StoreFirst  
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount Mr W may receive from the investment and any eventual  sums he would  be able to 
access from the SIPP. AFFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the StoreFirst investment. In order for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs to be removed. But if AFFS 
cannot buy the investment Mr W is faced  with future  SIPP  fees. I think  it is fair to award an 
amount for five years of future SIPP fees.  So if AFFS cannot buy the investment, as well as 
calculating (A), assuming  a nil value,  AFFS should add an amount equal  to five years  of 
SIPP fees based on the current  tariff.
Ref: DRN41783245If its not possible to pay some or all the compensation into Mr Ws SIPP,  AFFS should  pay 
the balance (or all of it) as cash direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
This notional  allowance should  be calculated  using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
I think the notional  allowance should  be a reduction  equivalent to the current  basic rate of 
tax. I think  Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement.
I understand that Mr W has taken the tax free lump sum.  Any withdrawals from the SIPP  
should be accounted for in calculating (A). I think a fair approach is to ask Phoenix to allow 
for any such amounts  on the same date(s) as if they were  removed from the former  plan.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation from Phoenix then the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen, 
assuming Mr W was prepared to take some risk  but not a high risk.
I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr W has been  caused some distress and inconvenience  by 
the loss of his pension  fund. AFFS should  therefore  pay him £300.   
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Anthony  Feeney Financial Services must now calculate whether 
Mr W has suffered  a loss. If there is a loss, compensation should be paid as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4178324