K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 
alongside a mortgage. Mr C says Santander UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr C says he wasnt informed the PPI was being  added to his account and the choice to opt 
in wasnt made clear to him. Santander  says that PPI was never a condition  of the lending, 
and it wouldve only added the policy to Mr Cs mortgage with his knowledge and consent. 
Unfortunately there are no longer any documents available from the sale of this policy. But in 
cases where there is little or no evidence, I have to consider what both parties have said, 
and what we already  know  about  how PPI was being sold in similar circumstances, in order  
to reach  a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. 
According to the evidence  provided Mr Cs PPI questionnaire, he hasnt been able to 
remember much about what happened at the time. Which  is understandable  considering the 
PPI was sold a long time ago - around  29 years ago - but this is something I have to keep in 
mind when reaching my decision.
Mr C took out his mortgage  with Santander in 1985,  some years before the PPI was taken 
out. So I think Mr C wouldve known the policy was not a condition  of being accepted for the 
mortgage, as the mortgage had already been in place for around  5 years at the time.  And I 
also think it unlikely Santander  wouldve  just added the policy to his account at this time 
without having  some discussion or contact with him about it. So without any evidence  to 
suggest that Mr C didnt consent to the PPI, I think its likely that Santander  offered the policy 
to Mr C and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand  if he cant  remember  this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the policy was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr C says he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer which  he couldve used to 
keep up his repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 36 months if Mr C was off 
sick  which  wouldve been for longer than and in addition to his sick pay entitlement.  So 
Mr Cs sick pay couldve been used for other expenses. Ive also seen that Mr C didnt have 
any other savings or insurance to help him if hed been made unemployed. And the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for a successful unemployment claim  so I dont think  
Mr Cs sick pay meant  the policy was unsuitable  for him.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  
Ref: DRN44405092It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But 
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Santander UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4440509