K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that two loans  provided to her by AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit), 
were unaffordable and irresponsibly made.
background
Miss O took out two loans with AvantCredit. The first for £1,600  was taken out in December 
2014 and had 23 monthly instalments of £115.37.  The second for £3,200 was taken out in 
March 2016. It was, in part, used to pay off the first loan and there were to be 35 instalments 
of £162.40.
In August  2017  she sought assistance  from a debt charity and a payment plan was 
subsequently set up to help her manage the debt. Miss O says that payments to both loans 
were unaffordable and she complained to AvantCredit: she said the loans shouldnt have 
been provided.
But AvantCredit disagreed. They said Miss O had confirmed her income and theyd checked 
it was correct. Theyd looked  at her credit  files too so they could consider any debt 
obligations and theyd cross  referenced  this to the income and expenditure information 
Miss O had given them.  But they explained that, having completed those checks, there was 
nothing to suggest the loans werent  affordable. 
So Miss O referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her view. She 
didnt think either of the loans were affordable. She said that, whilst AvantCredit had noted  
expenses of £500 for each loan, Miss Os indebtedness was considerably more than this in 
each case. When  she applied for the first loan she had commitments to credit facilities of 
£1,033 before rent, utilities and living expenses were accounted for. And when  she applied 
for the second  loan her credit  commitments were over £1,500.  She couldnt find any 
evidence that AvantCredit had even  considered  her living expenses or rent and utility bills. 
So the adjudicator thought that their checks hadnt  been thorough  enough and if they had, 
they would  have realised that neither loan was affordable. So she suggested they refund all 
the interest Miss O had paid on both of the loans and use that payment to offset Miss Os 
current debt on loan two. 
AvantCredit agreed with the adjudicators assessment of the second  loan but they didnt 
agree with her assessment of loan one. They said they didnt think  the information theyd 
assessed on the affordability  report  had demonstrated an unacceptable  increase in 
indebtedness and they said two of the payday loans had not shown up on the credit  report  
they considered.  So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the business has accepted the adjudicators view on the second loan and for 
completeness I would say that I agree. The loan was clearly  unaffordable and AvantCredit 
should have made more  thorough checks.
I also think theres evidence that the first loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been 
offered. I know it will disappoint AvantCredit  so please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN46511762Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
AvantCredit has explained that it considered an affordability report and information from 
Miss Os credit  file. It says it cross checked  what Miss O had told them about her expenses  
too and its explained that the credit  file had no record of two payday  loans  Miss O was 
contributing to. 
I think its clear  that the loans werent affordable. I say that because,  having reviewed 
Miss Os bank  statements, her credit commitments  were almost as much as she earnt and 
that was before any living expenses were taken into account.
So Ive considered whether it is reasonable to suggest AvantCredit should  have realised  this. 
They recorded expenditure of £500  and say they cross checked this against  her file. But the 
affordability report showed she was paying towards six loans; had unsecured  lending  of over 
£25,000; was using over 90% of her credit  limit across this debt and that balances  had 
increased on four of her accounts in the last three  months alone.
So I dont  think AvantCredit should  have lent Miss O anymore money.  The credit report 
made it clear  that further questions needed  to be asked and if AvantCredit  had had further 
discussions with Miss O I think  its reasonable to suggest they would have found out about 
the payday loans that werent  on the credit report  and they wouldnt have offered further 
credit as the loan was clearly unaffordable.
Ref: DRN46511763my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold this complaint  and tell AvantCredit of UK, LLC to:
refund  all interest Miss O paid on both loans and use it to offset  the outstanding debt
pay 8% simple interest per annum  on that refund from the date the interest was paid 
to the date of settlement
remove any negative information  they may have written to Miss Os credit file in 
relation to these  accounts
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651176