K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they havent  received  an adequate settlement  from 
U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for their home  insurance claim for theft following  a burglary at 
their home.
background 
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs C were the victims of a burglary at their home.  They lost a 
number of valuable  items  of jewellery and made a claim to UKI. Their  claim was accepted 
and the details of the lost jewellery  items  were  sent by UKI to a jewellery service. They were 
offered the personal jewellery service  (PJS) whereby certain items could be made to copy,  
as far as possible,  the original design. Two items  were agreed on and made and delivered. 
For other items the jewellers  issued  gem cards to enable Mr and Mrs C to purchase 
replacements. 
For one particular item, a gold bracelet  set with opals and diamonds, Mr and Mrs C selected 
a design through the PJS.  The value the jewellers put on this was £1,275, but in order to 
make it to Mr and Mrs Cs choice  of design,  it would  cost £3,434.  UKI said they could have  
the bracelet made to that price but they would have  to pay the balance, possibly by 
foregoing replacement of some  other  items.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy with this  they said they were  told that the replacement 
proposed by the jewellers was like for like. They asked  about a cash  payment in respect of 
the other items in the list- UKI was prepared to offer this but based on the discount it would 
receive from its suppliers.  Its total offer in that respect was £5,367.50, less the cost of the 
items already replaced ( £3,100 for earrings and £750 for a pendant).  It would also deduct 
the items  for which a gem card had been issued  (items  7 and 10 on the list). Alternatively if 
they returned the gem card it would pay respectively £1,017 and £246  for those items.
UKI did agree that Mr and Mrs C had suffered some inconvenience with the claims handling 
and that there had been some discrepancies with regard to the valuation of their bangle. It 
agreed to pay them  £150.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that UKI had made  a reasonable offer in 
respect of the bangle  and didnt think it had actually been valued at £3,434. He further said 
that UKI had made a reasonable offer in respect  of the other  items.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with that view.  They  said that if the jewellers made the bangle  
for the reduced  value it would be of inferior quality.  They also said that the gem cards were 
restricted in the items they were able to buy  in particular they couldnt buy any items  in the 
sale. They  also said theyd never previously been informed about the cash  discount UKI 
applied.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN43389792valuation of the bangle
Mr and Mrs C say that the jeweller  from the PJS told them the design he was proposing  for 
£3,434 was a like-for-like  copy  of the original.  They  reject the valuation of £1,275,  saying it 
was based on a very rough estimate  theyd given shortly after the burglary when they were  
still in shock. I have considered this, but I dont think the jeweller said the more expensive  
value would be an exact copy.  The jeweller  would have based  its valuation not only on what 
they were told by Mr and Mrs C but also on the original price  (£340 in 1995) and a 
description.
I dont think they were given very clear information and I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C feel 
they were made an offer to replace  the bangle at the higher valuation. I dont think the 
documents show that to be the case, but nevertheless  I appreciate that the matter  was 
confusing. UKI has offered to: 
1  make the new item for £3,434, with Mr and Mrs C paying the balance  above  £1,275  
(or foregoing other items  in their claim); or 
2 make  a copy for £1,275; or 
3  pay a 50% discounted  cash settlement based on its assessed value.
I think this is a fair offer.
cash settlement
Mr and Mrs C would  like a cash settlement, without any discount, for the remaining items. 
They say that a cash settlement was never discussed with them and they dont think UKI 
should be able to discount this.
I appreciate that a cash settlement doesnt  appear to have been discussed  until 
Mr and Mrs C specifically asked for one. This would be because,  as they have been told, 
such a settlement would  come with a large  discount. Its usually preferable to either  remake  
the items  or to issue a jewellery card for the full value.  UKI is entitled to do this under the 
terms of the policy. Its obligation  under the policy is to replace the items, but it gets a large 
discount from its jewellers or through the gem card or other similar cards.  In this case it 
believes it would be able to remake the item, so it would be entitled to make a reduction 
through a cash  payment. The policy says:
:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether  to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace  or repair using our own suppliers, or
make  cash  payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair  using our
own suppliers.
jewellery card
Mr and Mrs C arent  satisfied with the offer of a gem card, since they believe it restricts their 
choice, by not being able to buy items on sale and jewellers being unwilling to sell other  
items. I havent seen  evidence that Mr and Mrs C were unable to buy the specific items  on 
their list, if they werent on sale. However  the card does only enable the buyer to buy at full 
price. I think  thats fair, otherwise the jeweller  would  be giving a double discount.  I 
Ref: DRN43389793understand that Mr and Mrs C feel restricted by this but it is the general approach of most 
insurers  they arent  being given unfair treatment compared to other  customers. They can 
opt to return the card and have a cash settlement instead. I think  thats fair and reasonable.
compensation
Mr and Mrs C have been paid £150  compensation. This takes  into account the 
inconvenience they suffered during the claim handling process.  In particular I think they 
werent given very clear  information about  the valuation of their bangle.  But I think the 
payment is a fair offer and in line with the sort of awards we have made  in similar  cases.
If Mr and Mrs C want  to accept the cash offer or payment by way of gem card and the offer 
to remake the bangle with their contribution  or at the lower price, they should get in touch 
with UKI directly.
my final decision
I make  no award, save to record that U K Insurance Limited has offered  reasonable 
alternatives for settlement of Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4338979