K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold  a home  insurance policy  by Arthur J. Gallagher 
Insurance Brokers  Limited (AJG).
background
In late April 2019 Mr D called AJG and took out his home insurance  policy.  
In May 2019  Mr D phoned the insurer to make  a claim  and found  out the policy excess  would 
be £600 and not £100 as he was told in the phone call. Mr D therefore felt the policy had 
been mis-sold to him.
AJG accepts that it gave  Mr D incorrect information regarding  the policy excess  at the time 
of the sale. To put things right, it agreed to cover the difference  in excess  of £500  for this 
claim. However, going forward  it said that Mr D would need  to pay £600 excess in the event 
of any further claims.
Mr D remains  unhappy he wants AJG to only charge £100 excess on any further claims for 
the duration of the cover.
Our Investigator  didnt uphold the complaint.  She said that there  was no dispute  that AJG did 
make an error during  the call, but it had fair and reasonably considered  this when  Mr D 
made a claim in May and waived the £500  excess. But she felt it was fair for AJG to charge 
the £600 excess for any future claims.
Mr D disagreed, he said if hed been  given correct  information regarding the policy excess  at 
the outset, he wouldn't have taken the policy out. He felt the excess figure had been altered 
by AJG after the call. So, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr D, Im not upholding his complaint and Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that when Mr D phoned AJG to take out the policy  he was told the incorrect 
excess amount - £100. Mr D thinks that AJG or the underwriter changed the excess after the 
call. Ive not seen any evidence of this and to check it I asked AJG to provide the quote 
information sent to Mr D prior to him phoning.  The quote shows  £600 excess  and the actual 
policy schedule provided after the call also shows £600 excess. So, although an error  was 
made, Im satisfied that Mr D had been provided the correct information  before and after the 
call and the mistake in the call was caused by human  error.
AJG shouldnt have made the mistake  on the phone but the right response is to correct the 
information, not to make  things as if the information was correct.  Due to the error AJG 
reduced the excess payable on the May claim to £100 instead of £600. So, Mr D had no 
financial loss for that claim. 
I dont think AJGs error in the call means  it has to charge Mr D just £100 excess  for any 
future claims  he makes. Mr D is now aware  of the error and he had already been  provided 
the correct information in writing by way of the policy schedule.  
Ref: DRN45925362I understand Mr D has said if he had known that this was the excess  at the outset, he 
wouldnt have taken  the policy out. But as already  mentioned  the quote and schedule  
provided, contained the correct information.  Mr D does have a responsibility to check the 
information to ensure  the policy meets his needs and doesnt contain  any errors. I cant  hold 
AJG responsible for Mr D not checking  the documentation.
Mr D is also aware  that he has made  previous claims. So, the policy  will reflect previous 
claim history and the insurer who isnt AJG are able to decide the balance  of risk it is 
prepared to accept  and weight the costs accordingly. From the underwriting  criteria Ive seen 
Mr D hasnt been treated  unfairly to any other customer.
I appreciate Mr D has paid his annual premium and due to him already having a successful 
claim he isnt entitled  to a pro-rated refund of the premium if he was to cancel the policy. So, 
I understand Mr D feels locked into the policy.  But this is a matter for Mr D to decide if 
whether or not he wants to continue the policy, knowing the correct excess  payable or he 
can cancel the policy and search  the market for another policy with less excess payable. But 
this may mean an increase in premium. If he decides to keep the policy AJG hasnt 
disadvantaged him for any future  claims as he would have continued the policy knowing AJG 
can reasonably  charge  the correct excess of £600  for all claims.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4592536