K820x#14complaint
Miss F and Miss W complain about charges National Westminster  Bank  Plc has made for a 
safe deposit box.
background
Miss F says she took out the National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) safe deposit box in 
the 1990s and recalls  using it until about 1999. But then forgot  about  it and doubts  that she 
still has the key. She says she noticed  in 2018 that she had been paying  £45 a year for the 
facility. But didnt receive any communication about  the charge  or that NatWest  had closed 
the branch where the box was held and moved  it to a different branch.  Miss F says if she 
had received that communication then she would have collected  the box. She would like the 
cost for the last seven years refunded to her.
NatWest says the safe deposit box was opened by Miss F in 1995  and has been opened 
ever since.  It says the charge appeared on Miss Fs account statements and she ought to 
have noticed it. NatWest says it has no record of Miss F closing the facility and it wrote  to 
Miss F in 2017 to tell her the box was being moved following a branch closure.
Miss F and Miss W brought their complaint  to us but our investigator didnt think  NatWest  
had made  a mistake. The investigator  thought Miss F ought to have been aware of the 
charge and it was her responsibility to tell NatWest that she no longer needed the box. The 
Investigator thought it likely NatWest had sent Miss F the letter  in 2017  and that she had 
made use of the service.
Miss F says if she had have received the letter about the branch closing then she would 
have done something about  the box and would  like an ombudsman  to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Miss F and Miss W will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Miss F took out the safe deposit  box in 1995 and that she 
used it. I think on balance  it is likely that Miss F forgot  about  it and didnt cancel  the facility.  I 
say that as I can see that Miss F herself  accepts she forgot about it and doubts that she has 
the key. I think that if Miss F had cancelled  the facility then she would have told us that and 
would no longer be in possession of the key in any event. So In those circumstances I dont 
think NatWest could  have  known Miss F didnt require the facility and didnt make a mistake 
or act unfairly by charging her the yearly fee.
I also think that Miss F ought to have noticed the charge on her account statements as she 
had been charged for the facility for over 20 years. I appreciate that Miss F says she didnt 
look at those statements  in detail but again I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for that.
Im satisfied that having looked at NatWests  records that Miss F was sent a letter about the 
branch closure  in 2017. I appreciate Miss F says she didnt  receive that letter  but as 
NatWest isnt responsible  for the safe delivery  of mail then I cant fairly  hold it responsible  for 
Miss F not receiving it. In any event I can see that the branch  closed  in 2017, so some  12 
months before Miss F noticed  the charge. I think by that stage Miss F would  have paid all but 
one of the annual safe deposit fees.
Ref: DRN48117452As I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or made  a mistake  I cant fairly order it to repay 
the charges Miss F would  like
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4811745