K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr S took out in 2004. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card by post.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint because:
I dont think Barclays gave Mr S clear enough  information about the policy, in particular 
about the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical  conditions. I say this because  this 
information isnt drawn  to Mr Ss attention on the credit card application and its also not 
sufficiently prominent  in the policy terms that Barclays have referred us to. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mr S because hes told us that he had a pre-existing 
medical condition  at the time of sale and had time off work because of it before the sale. 
So he couldnt have  claimed on the policy for everything he reasonably  expected to be able 
to.
The policy terms state; We will not pay you disability or hospitalisation benefits  for any claim 
that is the result of:..any conditions you knew about before the start date or for which  you 
got advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months immediately before 
the start date 
Given the nature of Mr Ss condition and the impact that it can have on a persons life, I dont 
think Mr S wouldve bought the policy  if Barclays had given him enough  information about it. 
So, I think Mr S has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.  
Ive taken into account Barclays comments,  including what it said about Mr S has not 
confirmed whether he was visiting a doctor during 12 months prior to the time of sale and he 
has not confirmed  whether  he was receiving any treatments or on medication for the 
condition at the time of sale. But as Ive already explained, the specific exclusion around 
pre-existing medical conditions states; ..you  knew aboutor for which  you got 
advice..from any doctor  in the 12 months  immediately before the start date. Ive 
emphasised the use of or in the policy terms as Mr S satisfies the first part of the exclusion, 
so even if he didnt  see a doctor in the 12 months  prior to taking PPI, his condition still 
wouldnt be covered  based on this term . 
Ref: DRN41201152Ive also noted  what Barclays completing  this application in his own time without a Barclays  
adviser being present. Whilst this is correct, Barclays still had to give Mr S good enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if it was right for himself and if he wanted  to 
take it out. As Ive already explained, in this particular  case I dont think that Barclays did a 
good enough job and given Mr Ss personal  circumstances  I still think  I should uphold this 
complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr S would  have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr S owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr S would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance,  Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr S wouldve  owed  Barclays something  on his credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year from then on.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr S what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
Ref: DRN41201153ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120115