K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance 
policy.
Reference to esure includes  their agents.
background
Miss Ms new car was insured with esure.  Unfortunately  she was involved in a serious 
accident on 28 December  2018  when her car was hit by a truck.  Her car was a total loss. 
The accident  happened  when Miss M was around 250 miles away  from her home. At the 
time of the accident her two elderly parents, both in their 70s, and her toddler were also in 
her car. She said the experience was traumatic.
Miss M said the service  she received  from esure was poor and she was let down. She 
complained about various aspects of the service she received  and also that the total loss 
payment esure made for her car was too low. esure  paid Miss M £100 compensation and 
they reimbursed her the cost of the hire car she arranged  to get home  after the accident, 
which I understand was over £100.  They also reimbursed her the cost of the petrol she had 
in her tank when  the accident  happened. And esure  also agreed to pay for a replacement  
child seat. Miss M brought  her complaint  to our service as she didnt think esure had dealt 
with her fairly. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that esures service had been 
poor. He recommended  that esure pay Miss M a further £200  bringing the total 
compensation for the poor service to £300.  But as both Miss M and esure didnt  agree  with 
our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of the information provided  to me by the parties carefully. In this decision I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if esure have  dealt 
with Miss M in a fair and reasonable way.
total loss valuation of the car
Miss Ms policy says that where her car is a total loss, esure must pay her the pre-accident 
market value of it. I feel that the starting  point  when trying to establish the market value of a 
car is to look at a number  of industry trade guides  and that is what esure said they did. The 
guides are based  on extensive  nationwide  research of likely selling prices. Miss M wasnt  
happy with the initial valuation given  by esure.  She said she had bought the car just two 
weeks before the accident for £15,600  plus a £100  admin fee. On review  esure increased 
their offer to £15,700 saying that was the correct market value of the car because that was 
the amount she paid for it shortly  before  the accident. But Miss M said she was still unable  to 
buy a like for like car with £15,700.
Our adjudicator independently checked  the trade guides and found  that the final offer esure 
made was higher than the guide valuations. Miss M said she was unable  to find a like for like 
car anywhere for £15,700  and the dealerships she asked also couldnt find one either. She 
Ref: DRN44661142said she later bought another car for £16,300  that was older  than her previous car and had 
almost double the mileage. Miss M referred to a number  of adverts of cars similar to hers 
that were for sale for more than £15,700. But I don't think its reasonable to rely on adverts 
when looking at the value of cars as often advertised prices  are inflated to allow for 
negotiation. So, its unlikely a cars advertised  price  is the actual price  it was sold for. And I 
think the fact that Miss M was able to buy her previous car for £15,600 after negotiating the 
price down proves this point. I therefore  think esures valuation was reasonable.
poor service
Miss M said she was in shock following the accident as she and her family could have had 
suffered serious  injury  or worse. She said esure provided little help when she was at the 
roadside. She said she made 16 calls after the accident when she was asking esure  for help. 
She said as esure told her she wasnt entitled  to a courtesy car they told her to call the other 
drivers insurer  directly, which she did. But she was then referred back  to esure. Miss M said 
staff at the compound, by that I understand the storage facility the police recovered her car 
to, helped her book a hire car herself.  She said she was in no state  of mind to drive  back  
home some 250 miles but felt she had no other choice as it was very cold and getting dark. 
Under her policy Miss M was entitled to up to £500  to stay at a hotel if needed  following  an 
accident. Miss M said if she knew that she would have done  that instead  of driving home in 
the state she was in. esure accepted they should have told her that was an option  available 
to her but they didnt. I think it would have been  helpful for them to have told Miss M that 
knowing her circumstances and that she was far away from home. I have no doubt that 
having to arrange her own hire car to return home  that evening caused Miss M great 
distress.
Miss M said the problems  continued after the accident. She said she made a very high 
number of calls to esure and other parties in trying to get things  resolved.  Miss M 
complained that despite being told she would be given a courtesy  car when she returned 
home that didnt happen and she had to sort that out herself. But under her policy Miss M 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car unless her car was being repaired  by one of esures 
approved repairers.  But as her car was a total loss she was never entitled to one. What I 
think happened was that her broker  may have tried to refer her to an accident management 
company to arrange her a replacement car but that would have been  done outside of 
Miss Ms policy entitlement.  And esure arent responsible for the actions of the broker or 
accident management company. So I dont think esure were responsible for the problems 
with the replacement car. I understand that esure reimbursed Miss M for the initial hire car 
that she arranged  to get herself and her family  home as compensation for not telling her she 
could have avoided  doing that by benefitting  from a hotel  stay the night of the accident.
esure accepted in their final response letter that their service  could have been better. And I 
can see that Miss M had to do a lot of running  around and chasing to get things resolved. 
And she told us she made a lot of phone calls to various parties including esure. When our 
adjudicator suggested esure should  increase their compensation by £200 to a total of £300, 
esure objected saying Miss M hadnt provided evidence  in the form of her phone  bills to 
prove she had incurred call costs. But as our adjudicator  correctly  pointed out it isnt just a 
matter of whether  or not Miss M incurred call costs. But it was the time and stress  involved in 
having to make those  calls. But I note in their final response letter to Miss M esure  gave the 
reason for offering  £100 compensation as: to say sorry for the service  received and to cover 
the costs of your calls.  So I think they accepted she made calls. I agree with our adjudicator  
that £100 compensation didnt go far enough  to address the distress and inconvenience 
Ref: DRN44661143Miss M experienced. Im therefore  upholding this complaint and require esure to pay an 
additional £200 compensation taking the total amount  to £300.
Finally, Miss M said following the accident  she received a number  of unwanted calls from 
people claiming  to be companies  who could  help her make an injury claim. She said that 
only added  to her stress and she wanted  to know if esure sold her details. I have seen no 
evidence that esure  were  responsible for Miss M receiving those unwanted calls.  But if 
Miss M suspects esure have in anyway breached data protection rules  she can complain to 
the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO).
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require esure  Insurance  
Limited to pay Miss M an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Miss M has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept
or reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If esure consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss M how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN4466114