K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with how Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) incorrectly set up standing  
orders on their accounts.
Background
In early 2014 Mr and Mrs S had three  accounts with Lloyds; two in their individual  names 
and a third as a joint account.
The terms of these  accounts meant that if £1,500 was paid into each one monthly,  they 
would each receive interest on balances up to £5,000. 
Mr and Mrs S say standing orders to transfer  money  between  the accounts were set up by a 
manager in branch in early 2014  during  a meeting. Mr and Mrs S say the manager told them 
the standing orders  had been set up correctly and this would mean each account would 
remain at the £5,000  balance and receive  interest.
Mr and Mrs S signed up for paperless  statements on the joint and Mr Ss personal account,  
but not on Mrs Ss, meaning she should receive  yearly statements through  the post. Mr and 
Mrs S say these statements did not get sent. 
Mr and Mrs S said that they did receive  a paper statement in August 2018  which  showed  
Mrs S account had over £60,000 in it. This was a lot more than Mr and Mrs S expected to 
be in there.  When they checked the statement, they saw there were two standing  orders 
paying from their joint account,  into Mrs Ss, rather than one. They said this was caused by 
the branch manager setting up the standing orders incorrectly.  They  also said they hadnt 
received any statements  for Mrs Ss account between 2014  and 2018.  
Mr and Mrs S complained to Lloyds.  They said due to the standing  orders  being set up 
incorrectly, they had to transfer money from their savings (from another  bank) into the joint 
account, which meant they lost interest  on these  savings.  They  said they hadnt  noticed this 
as Lloyds had not sent Mrs S annual statements as required.
In response, Lloyds  initially  accepted  it made an error in setting up the standing orders. It 
offered Mr and Mrs S £200  for the distress and inconvenience it had caused, however said 
they were not liable for the lost interest  on their savings held with another bank. 
Mr and Mrs S did not accept this outcome. They complained to our service. They said that 
due to the manager setting up the standing orders incorrectly, they had lost interest on 
£55,000 and wanted to be compensated for this.
During our investigation, Lloyds said it had reviewed the complaint. It found system notes 
that indicated  Mr and Mrs S had set up the standing orders themselves, via online banking.  
They said the system codes used related to Mr and Mrs S only, and nobody else could 
access them. Therefore,  Lloyds said they no longer accepted that it had set up the standing 
orders incorrectly, and said it must have been done by Mr and Mrs S. They  also said they 
had sent annual statements to Mrs S. And it was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to check their 
own accounts to ensure  payments going  in and out were correct.
Ref: DRN43015362Our investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
standing orders were  probably set up by Mr and Mrs S themselves, and annual statements 
were probably sent to Mrs S as required
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with the investigators  view. They said they spoke to a Lloyds 
bank manager  who said the unique codes  were unlikely to relate to actions by them. They  
also said the branch  manager must  have  used their accounts to set up the standing orders,  
which is why it looks like they had done  it themselves.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is conflicting information or 
opinion, or indeed a lack of definitive  evidence, I need to decide  what  I think is most likely to 
have happened, on the balance of probabilities.
There is no dispute that the standing  orders were set up incorrectly. It can be seen from the 
statements that two monthly payments were made from their joint account into Mrs Ss 
personal account, and not one. What is in dispute, is who set these up. 
I think it is relevant that it has been over four years since the standing orders were  set up. 
And whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S have given their own recollection, memories  can 
and do fade over time. And Lloyds have provided  system notes that show detailed 
information relating  to the standing orders, which it says shows when they were  set up, and 
how. 
Lloyds say their system  notes show Mr and Mrs S unique codes were used to set up the 
standing orders. And these were first set up in early  2014 and altered later that same year.  
And I can see these standing orders change in the account statements as the system  notes 
show.
Mr and Mrs S have  spoken to another Lloyds  bank manager, who has written  to them about 
the standing order  transactions. In this letter the manager says the standing  orders were  set 
up at Lloyds head office, and Mr and Mrs S say this supports their position that Lloyds set 
up and altered the standing orders incorrectly. But contrary to this, I actually think this 
supports Lloyds position, as Lloyds internal directory shows the head  office  relates to 
internet banking transactions. And because of this I think this shows  its more  likely internet 
banking was used  to set up the standing orders, and not in branch as Mr and Mrs S recall.
Ref: DRN43015363Mr and Mrs S say its likely that the branch manager  asked them  to login into their accounts 
so he could set up their standing orders for them. And they say this explains why their 
unique codes appear. 
I do think this explanation is plausible, as I do think bank staff probably would assist their 
customers in this way; especially if theyre  unsure how to use internet banking. But whilst I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss explanation, I dont think this is likely in these circumstances.  I 
say because the standing orders were originally  set up on different dates  two of them were 
set up on 3 March  2014, and the other two on 23 March 2014  and 25 April 2014 . And again,  
these were altered  later in the year.  I think if the branch manager had set these up, the 
standing orders would  show  to be set up on the same day, and not on varying  dates.
Im satisfied that the standing orders were originally set up on different dates using Mr and 
Mrs S unique  codes, and were carried out using internet banking. So, I think its more likely  
that not that Mr and Mrs S set up the standing orders themselves. 
Mr and Mrs S also say they didnt notice  the error for four years  as Mrs S didnt get sent an 
annual statement as she shouldve  done. This is disputed  by Lloyds who say annual 
statements were sent to Mrs S.
I have seen copies  of the statements Lloyds  have on record for Mrs Ss account. Mr and 
Mrs S say these must have been  produced retrospectively as they didnt receive them. 
However, Lloyds have also produced system  notes  which show statements were produced 
for the account  annually. So, having  seen statements  correctly  addressed,  and automated 
system notes which indicate they were sent,  on balance  I think  it more likely  than not, that 
they were sent to Mrs S as Lloyds  say they were.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 July 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4301536