K820x#14complaint
Mrs D on behalf of her late husbands  estate complained that the Legal  and General 
Assurance Society Limited  had failed to properly  address what needed to be done following 
Mr Ds death.
background
Prior to his death  in April 2018, Mr D was receiving monthly annuity payments from Legal 
and General. Two monthly payments were transferred  into Mr Ds bank account  following his 
death, prior to Legal and General being  made aware  on 25 May 2018 that he had died.
On 29 May 2018 Legal and General wrote to Mrs D to ask for the return of £402.  This was 
the sum said to represent the two payments. 
There was a protracted history thereafter whereby Mrs D on behalf  of her late husbands 
estate was seeking the necessary documentation  for Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs 
(HMRC) to ensure matters relating to the estate could be dealt with. Legal and General 
didnt think they were able to provide  this documentation  until they had recovered the two 
overpayments. Mrs D explained that she didnt  have this money and her husbands estate 
had no value.
Legal and General say they tried to assist in the process. Mrs D doesnt accept they did 
enough or that they did what they claim to have done.
It was on 16 January 2019  Legal and General spoke with Mr Ds bank (having sent, they 
say, two letters in the preceding six months) . The bank confirmed Mr Ds account  had 
received the two annuity overpayments but had no funds available when it had been closed. 
So the bank was unable to return the payments to Legal and General.
Legal and General went on to confirm on 21 January 2019 that because  Mr Ds estate had 
no value they would  clear  the debt  of £402.
Following a complaint  from Mrs D, Legal and General issued their response. In their letter  
they referred to the dates when they said they had written  to Mr Ds bank  and HMRC to try to 
assist matters. They said that theyd contacted the bank despite this not being their usual 
procedure in an attempt  to help. Legal  and General also explained why they were unable  to 
formally close  Mr Ds plan and provide the required material to HMRC until an overpayment 
was returned.  They set out how such a payment  is viewed when this happens by HMRC and 
the consequences this entails.
It was in early April 2019 Mrs D confirmed shed received the required documentation from 
HMRC.
Our investigator thought that although  Legal and General could have provided a better 
service, overall she thought they had taken  reasonable steps  to recover  the money from the 
bank and inform  HMRC of the situation.  So she didnt think  they needed  to do anything  more 
to put things right. Mrs D didnt agree.
Ref: DRN42864782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on everything  I accept  Legal  and 
General were entitled and required to address the position in respect of potential  
overpayments; and I accept this was what they were  trying to do. But I dont think  Legal and 
General did everything  they could have done.  Nor do I think what they did was done 
particularly well or efficiently. However I dont  think this has caused any loss to Mr Ds 
estate. 
Where a business hasnt  caused a financial loss through error  but has caused distress and 
inconvenience, this service can consider making  an award.
However, this service is not able to tell a business  to pay compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience experienced  by a third party. So I am unable to award any compensation to 
executors who bring a complaint on behalf  of an estate. Such awards cant  be made  to an 
estate. It is only in this capacity that Mrs D was able to bring this complaint; as my 
understanding is that she was not a beneficiary  of Mr Ds pension  plan.
There are circumstances  when we can award compensation to a deceased consumer, (here  
Mr D). But this is where there  has been  distress and inconvenience experienced during the 
period of time they were  alive. This isnt relevant to the circumstances here.
I am sorry  if this information disappoints  Mrs D. I have no doubt based on what I have seen 
that Legal and General in addition  to the other parties Mrs D was dealing  with, will have 
added to her distress at a difficult  time.  And this is due to the part they played in adding to, 
what I think were  unnecessary delays and inaccurate communications.  
I dont think Legal  and General expressed themselves either as accurately or 
sympathetically as they might have done. I have  seen  for example that they referred to not 
knowing until 21 January  2019 that Mr Ds bank  didnt  hold the overpaid annuity  funds. I 
dont think this was the first time they had been informed. I also think that if they had chased 
earlier correspondence this matter would have been  concluded  earlier.  However I accept this 
could potentially also be said of Mr Ds bank.  
I have also seen that Legal  and General  refer in a letter to helping  Mrs D in recovering the 
overpayment, which of course is not what happened. And Ive seen the stress Legal and 
General put on suggesting they would not offer any further compensation having cleared 
the debt for Mrs D. 
This is a surprising approach to have been  adopted.  I dont consider writing  off the 
overpayment made  to Mr D that could  never  be pursued against Mrs D, particularly where it 
was known Mr Ds estate  was of zero value,  can be considered  compensation; let alone a 
satisfactory gesture.  Had I been  able to award  something to Mrs D for her distress  and 
inconvenience, it appears to me, this comment might have warranted such a conclusion.  
Overall, although I tend to accept  that Legal and General did send the letters on their file to 
Mr Ds bank and HMRC,  I think they could have done  more here; and at an earlier time.
Ive seen Mrs D has acknowledged  that Legal  and General did go on to apologize  to her but 
she felt they ought  to pay financial compensation. I hope she will understand why I am not 
able to consider  this. Ive seen how frustrated she and her family have felt by the amount of 
Ref: DRN42864783time the matter took to resolve after the death  of her husband, and I sympathize with their 
undoubted distress.
my final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold  this complaint made on behalf  of Mr Ds estate 
against the Legal and General  Assurance  Society Limited.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mrs D on behalf  of Mr Ds estate to accept  or reject my 
decision before  3 March  2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4286478