K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance  Limiteds  failure to provide 
them with a detailed  explanation of the fund equity breakdown and changes  following its 
decision to merge the balanced and cautious  funds. 
background
In 1997, Mr and Mrs G were advised   by a third party  business   to invest  in the Skandia 
balanced fund.  Because  of this were  unable consider the suitability of the advice.
In 2012, Skandia  wrote  to Mr and Mrs G to explain that the balanced  fund would be merged 
into the Skandia diversified fund  which became the Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance 
Limited Quilters Investors Diversified Portfolio.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs G were informed that their funds were underperforming and in 2018  Mr 
G complained and blamed the 2012  fund switch and the reduction  in equities for this. And 
because of this, he missed out on higher  returns on his money.  Mr G doesnt believe the 
business made clear  the changes in the funds
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and in summary  said he didnt  think the 
business had behaved unreasonably but could  do more  to try and answer  Mr and Mrs Gs 
questions. 
Mr and Mrs G disagree with the investigators  conclusions. In short, Mr G made  the following 
key submissions:
No information   providing  a clear fund explanation  was sent to them  or their IFA. If 
it was, he would  like to see a copy. 
He accepts that the aims of the business change may have been sent but certainly 
not the asset breakdown. 
He maintains the suggestion that  if he was unsure he should have checked it out  
is caveat emptor (let the buyer  be aware) defence.  But the business failed to alert 
him that thered be a significant change to the nature of his two funds. 
He thought it was reasonable  for him to assume thered be no change to the 
investment without a full explanation and cant understand  why the business  didnt 
warn him that the fund was being  changed  from 85% maximum equities to 60%.  
His key questions  which  proves  that the business failed in its duty of care towards 
Mr and Mrs G  remained unanswered. He said:
oThe business failed  to provide an adequate  description of the diversified fund 
into which he was switched.
oIt didnt highlight that it was a different investment category. 
oIt didnt say that the diversified fund didnt have  higher equities.  
oIt failed to give him options in the same  high equity category  he had. 
The omission in failing  to provide him with a full explanation  is a breach in its duty of 
care. 
One of our investigators  considered the points but wasnt persuaded to change  his mind:
The decision to merge the funds was a commercial decision by Skandia. Its not a 
matter for us to consider.   
Ref: DRN48484832The letter sent to Mr and Mrs G dated  October  2012 was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
There was a percentage breakdown  of the asset  allocation. And they were given time 
to decide if it was right for them. 
The letter also explained  why the funds were changed and explained that the new 
funds may not perform in line with some  investors  original expectations. But it was 
also made clear that "the diversified  fund has the potential to outperform your 
existing holdings over the long term"  but that thered be no guarantee and the 
investment could go up or down. 
Whilst he appreciates theres no track record, past performance is never a guarantee 
and it was up to Mr and Mrs G to decide if it was for them. 
The letter also made clear that if they were unsure if the new fund met their needs 
they should speak to their IFA or alternatively email  the business. It even offered a 
solution if they didnt have an IFA.   
Hes sympathetic with Mr and Mrs Gs disappointment with the performance of the 
fund value. But the business  fulfilled  its obligation to notify  Mr and Mrs G of the 
changes to the fund and gave sufficient time to decide if this was suitable for them.
Mr and Ms G have  asked for an ombudsmans  decision as they maintain that the business 
failed in its duty towards them.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs G say, Im not 
persuaded that the business  failed to adequately notify them  of the changes to its funds.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise  Mr and 
Mrs Gs strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
Mr G has provided  detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he and Mrs G wont take the fact my findings  focus  on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs G and Barclays,  and reach  what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I dont accept that having been notified  of changes  but not knowing what  they are  Mr and 
Mr G can just reasonably assume the changes wouldnt be something they didnt want. 
Ref: DRN48484833In my opinion, its a risk they took, and not a matter that I can hold the business  responsible  
for. 
The fact remains that whilst Mr and Mrs G may not have been  told about specific  changes to 
the equity content/breakdown, they were told about  changes to the investment  namely the 
merger of the balanced and cautious  funds  and that they should check  with their IFA to 
see if it was still suitable for them. 
Im satisfied that the business fulfilled its obligation to notify them of changes  and that it was 
a clear indication  that they needed  to find out what these changes  were, and if theyre happy 
with them.  The onus  was on Mr and Mrs G to check if the new fund was suitable for them, 
and they had sufficient time to do so. 
I note the business even  says Mr and Mrs G could provide an alternative fund choice. And 
they were told they didnt  have to do anything unless they were unhappy with the changes. 
And because no confirmation was received the funds were automatically  changed.   
I appreciate the point  Mr G makes, but this issue isnt the same as the concept of let the 
buyer be aware  where the buyer  assumes the risk. Here he was told of changes and then 
told to make sure it was suitable for him. Its not similar to when a cheap product is sold and 
shortcomings were kept hidden  from the buyer.  
I appreciate Mr G is unhappy about not receiving a comprehensive explanation, but had he 
asked questions about the fund Ive no doubt  the business wouldve provided  a full and 
comprehensive explanation.    
So in conclusion, on the face of the evidence and on balance,  Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G 
received the documentation that notified them of changes. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for them to just assume the nature of the change and not go 
and consult an IFA, regardless  of them being  asked to do so. There was nothing  to suggest  
that that the balanced element wasnt going to change. If anything it was all the more  reason 
for Mr and Mrs G to check because the balanced fund was so important to them. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable  to uphold this 
complaint and give them what they want.
Ref: DRN48484834my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848483