K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nottingham Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £400 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £22.26 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a sales manager. He has told us he was entitled  to at 
least six months sick pay, a death  in service payment  and redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs M 
have also told us they had savings. Mr M has said he was in good health at the time of the 
sale, although he has told us about  some childhood  illnesses  he had suffered from. 
Mrs M has told us she wasnt working  at the time of the sale so she wouldnt have been  able 
to claim on the policy. From the mortgage application form it appears Mrs M was working  as 
a secretary at the time, although it looks as though this may have been a part time position.  
But in any event Mrs M wasnt  covered by the policy  the PPI provided  cover for Mr M only.
NBS has sent us correspondence  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  believe  there to be no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN41869392The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN41869393The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs M, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they 
Ref: DRN41869394suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and NBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
Did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the PPI application  form completed at the time. This form includes 
printed information  such as the monthly  benefit, along with recording responses to some  
questions about  Mr Ms employment  and health  status. This form is separate  from the 
mortgage application and so I think Mr and Mrs M would have known  it was a separate  to 
the lending. And while  the information  has been pre-printed on the form, I think  its likely the 
answers would  have reflected the conversation they had with NBS at the time.  Mr and 
Mrs M have  signed the form which suggests they agreed with everything  that had been  
entered. If Mr and Mrs M didnt  want the cover, they could have left the form blank.
NBS has also provided a copy of a direct debit form which was to enable the PPI premiums  
to be deducted  from Mr and Mrs Ms account. Mr and Mrs M have both signed this document 
agreeing to the direct debit from their account.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Did NBS provide  advice?
Both NBS and Mr and Mrs M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
The information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. And a letter attached to the application  describes the cover  as protecting 
your mortgage payments  against accident, sickness and unemployment.  This letter  also 
confirms the monthly  benefit and the premium.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN41869395So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs M say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr M being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs M thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
Ref: DRN41869396differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs M have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs M were  given about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
NBS no longer has a copy of the policy from the date of sale,  and it has referred us to a 
policy document issued in 2004  as the most  relevant. As this policy was issued five years 
after the sale took place, Ive also looked  at a policy wording from 1994, five years  prior to 
the sale date.  From what I can see the policy terms and conditions are broadly similar and 
therefore I think, on a balance  of probabilities,  the terms from the 2004 policy wording are 
more likely than not to be similar to those that applied to Mr and Mrs Ms policy. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mr M knew about  or should  reasonably have known about at the start 
date of the policy, or for which he had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  about, during  
the 24 months immediately the start date.  However, this exclusion only applied  for 
the first 12 months of the policy cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do any paid work;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from 
taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to them  should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr M says he had suffered from medical 
conditions before the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he 
needed time off work because of these  conditions, I dont think  better information about this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the conditions Mr M has 
told us about are childhood  illnesses  and it doesnt  appear he has had any ongoing 
problems following these  individual  episodes  when he was a child.  So I dont think  he would 
have expected to be off work as a result of these  illnesses.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
Ref: DRN41869397grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  expected  to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if Mr M was unable to do any 
work, it might have played into their thinking about what they would do. And I accept  it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, on 
balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.  
NBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs M that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick pay for and any 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also likely  to be significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly loan repayments would have been of benefit  to them  and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr M was made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr and Mrs M found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same  position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN41869398to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude NBS should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M thinks NBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN41869399My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4186939