K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Standard Life Assurance Limited gave them  incorrect  
information about the amount of tax free cash they were entitled to withdraw from their 
pensions. As a result they say they committed to financial transactions that leave them 
facing a shortfall in funding.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
April 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Standard Life has 
said it has nothing further to add, and Mr and Mrs B havent provided any additional  
comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with anything further I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44795192EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited gave them  incorrect information about 
the amount of tax free cash they were entitled to withdraw from their pensions. As a result they say 
they committed to financial  transactions that leave them  facing a shortfall in funding.
background
Mr and Mrs B both held separate  pension plans with Standard Life. In mid May 2018 they called 
Standard Life to ask for information  about  how much of their remaining pension  funds theyd be able 
to take as a tax free lump  sum. The information  they were given by Standard  Life was incorrect. The 
telephone advisor told them that theyd be allowed to take, in total, approximately  £31,000 more  tax 
free cash than they were  actually entitled to.
In June 2018  Mr and Mrs B asked Standard Life to withdraw the amount  of tax free cash  theyd been 
told they could take. It was then that Standard Life noticed the incorrect information  that Mr and Mrs B 
had been given and provided  them with the correct information about  the amounts of tax free cash  
they could take.
Mr and Mrs B say that they had relied on the information Standard Life provided to them  when 
deciding on the sale of the their current house, and the purchase  of a new property. They  say the tax 
free cash would have been used to purchase fixtures and fittings for their new home. And they say 
that, if theyd  been given the correct information by Standard  Life at the outset,  theyd have purchased 
a cheaper property.
When Mr and Mrs B first complained to Standard Life it accepted that theyd been given incorrect 
information. But since they werent actually entitled to the additional tax free cash it didnt think it 
should pay the higher  amount to them.  But Standard Life did pay Mr and Mrs B £400 to reflect the 
trouble and upset this matter  had caused to them. Mr and Mrs B didnt  think that compensation was 
sufficient so they brought their complaint to this Service.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  has been assessed by one of our investigators. Whilst she entirely 
accepted that Standard Life had given  incorrect information  to Mr and Mrs B she thought the 
compensation Standard Life had paid to Mr and Mrs B had been sufficient.  So she didnt think  the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
Ref: DRN44795193There seems  to be little dispute that Standard Life gave incorrect information to Mr and Mrs B when  
they called in May 2018.  I have  listened to a recording of that call and it is clear  to me that Mr B, who 
largely handled  the call on behalf of his wife, had been asked to gather some information  from 
Standard Life. It doesnt  seem to me that Mr B really understood the information  he was asking for, 
saying at one stage the people asking  will know what that means. But the questions  that Mr B asked 
were clear and unambiguous.  The provision of the incorrect information was entirely  due to a failure  of 
the Standard Life employee to understand the difference  between  crystallised and uncrystallised 
funds.
Standard Life has said that it had sent statements to Mr and Mrs B shortly before they asked for 
information about their tax free cash. And it says those statements should have alerted  
Mr and Mrs Bs financial advisor that the information Mr and Mrs B had been given was incorrect. But 
I dont agree. I think if Mr and Mrs Bs advisor  had access to those statements she might not have 
asked them to call Standard Life. And I think it was reasonable for her to base the advice she gave  to 
Mr and Mrs B on the information  Standard Life provided by phone.
But I also dont think there is any dispute that Mr and Mrs B werent  entitled to the additional  tax free 
cash. The regulations governing the amounts of tax free cash  that can be taken  are set by 
HM Revenue and Customs.  The regulations arent something that Standard Life can interpret in 
individual circumstances. So bearing  in mind what I said earlier about  putting Mr and Mrs B back  into 
the position theyd have been in if theyd been given  the correct information, it wouldnt be right for me 
to direct Standard Life to pay the additional tax free cash  to Mr and Mrs B.
But I do need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs B took irrevocable decisions  based on the information 
Standard Life provided. Theyve told us that following the receipt of the information they accepted an 
offer on their house, and committed to buying a new property. 
Ive looked carefully at the information Mr and Mrs B have  sent us, from their solicitor, relating to the 
sale of their home, and their new purchase. It seems  to me that, despite them receiving an offer for 
their property on 30 May 2018, that offer wasnt formally  agreed until 27 November 2018. That was 
sometime after Mr and Mrs B became aware of the error  that Standard Life had made. And similarly it 
seems Mr and Mrs B didnt  offer to buy their new property until early September 2018, reaching  
formal agreement in late October. So I think that it would have been  reasonable,  and possible, for 
Mr and Mrs B to change their plans once they were aware of the mistake Standard Life had made.
So I cant conclude  that Mr and Mrs B made irrevocable decisions on the basis of the incorrect 
information Standard Life provided to them, and that theyd have made  different decisions if they were  
aware of the correct information. They pressed  ahead with their plans despite Standard Life having 
corrected its initial mistake.
But Mr and Mrs B should reasonably expect Standard Life to have given them  full and correct  
information when they asked a relatively common and basic  question  about  their pension benefits. 
I can understand how disappointed  they would have been when they learned the information theyd  
been given was incorrect. But Standard  Life has already acknowledged the disappointment  
Mr and Mrs B felt and paid them £400 in recognition of it. I think that sum reasonably reflects the 
trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B were caused by this mistake. So Im not intending to ask Standard 
Life to pay anything further to Mr and Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN4479519