K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Webb Hire Purchase  Co. Limited  (WHP) mis-sold them 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) alongside  a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2006 Mr and Mrs M took out a loan during a phone call to consolidate  other borrowings 
and to finance the purchase of a car. At the same  time they also took out PPI designed to 
protect their loan repayments in the event  Mr M (the policy was set up in his name  only)  
couldnt work through accident and sickness or if he was hospitalised.  The policy didnt  offer 
unemployment cover.
The policy was a single premium policy where  the cost was added to the loan upfront  an 
amount of just over £800, which added around  £16 a month to Mr and Mrs Ms overall loan 
repayment.
The loan term was five years,  but Mr and Mrs M repaid the loan early in 2009.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Mr and Mrs M chose to take 
the policy out and there  was nothing to indicate theyd lost out as a result of having  the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs M were  also told that, in relation to the commission they paid on their PPI and 
whether WHP treated them unfairly - because WHP  received commission of less than half of 
what they paid we didnt think they needed  to tell them about the commission.  And as a 
result they didnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M any of it back.
Mr and Mrs M disagree that the policy wasnt mis-sold, so the complaint comes to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive firstly  considered on what basis WHP  sold PPI to Mr and Mrs M  that is whether it 
advised or recommended the cover  to them or not. WHP says it didnt recommend it to them. 
Mr and Mrs M say they cant remember how PPI was sold or whether they received advice.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think WHP recommended the cover.  This means  WHP 
didnt have to ensure  the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. But it had to give them  
enough clear and timely information about  the policy so they could decide for themselves  if it 
was something they wanted. Ive kept this in mind in my consideration of this complaint.
did WHP  made it clear  Mr and Mrs M had a choice about PPI and did they agree to it on that 
basis?
Ref: DRN49079642One of Mr and Mrs Ms main complaint points is that they didnt know  they had PPI. WHP 
says Mr and Mrs M were  given loan quotes  with and without PPI. And it says Mr and Mrs M 
borrowed from them previously where theyd declined insurance  cover,  so they must  have  
understood they had it this time and that they had a choice  about it. 
Having considered the information provided by both parties, I think  Mr and Mrs M are 
mistaken in their recollections  of events, which is understandable given the time thats 
passed. I think they agreed  to take out cover for Mr M and understood they had a choice 
about it. Ill explain why Ive reached  this conclusion below.
While WHP hasnt  been able to provide us with a recording  of the telephone sales call or a 
script of what the business expected to be discussed with consumers buying PPI (it says 
neither was used  in the business  at the time) it has provided copies  of the paperwork sent to 
Mr and Mrs M following the phone call.
There are three main documents  I will refer to here. The first is a separate PPI application 
form. I can see here that Mr and Mrs M completed  some personal details, answered a series 
of questions about Mr Ms health  and employment and selected the desired level of cover 
from four available options. Mr Ms signature is on this document.
The second  document  is a PPI notification or declaration form. This required the choice of 
cover to be indicated by a cross in the relevant box and a signature  underneath, both of 
which Mr M did. Importantly this form also contained a section, which Mr and Mrs M had to 
sign if they didnt  want PPI. And this is what they did on their previous loans  Ill refer to this 
again.
Finally the third form is the loan agreement itself. Other  than setting out the cost of PPI 
separately from the main  loan amount  itself,  there  was a separate  section  here, which 
required Mr M to tick and sign next to the statement: I wish to purchase optional Creditcare 
payment protection insurance And again  I can see he did both.
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs M had previously  taken loans out with WHP. And Im mindful 
two of these were within 12 months  of taking out this loan. On both these occasions they 
chose not to have PPI signing  declarations to that effect. It seems likely to me given how 
relatively close together these loans were taken  that the sales process  wasnt fundamentally 
different each time. So I think it reasonable that Mr and Mrs M were aware that PPI was 
available and going to be discussed  and that they had a choice in the matter.
So while I accept I dont  know  how the adviser  presented PPI to Mr and Mrs M during the 
phone call, given  how the paperwork was structured  and how it described PPI; the fact that 
cover was only in Mr Ms name; and because Mr and Mrs M havent given us any detail 
about what happened, I think its unlikely  PPI was presented as being  a compulsory part of 
the loan or it was simply added without their knowledge. The evidence  available  suggests, 
more likely than not, that Mr and Mrs M were  offered PPI and they agreed to take it out 
choosing  the  level of cover  and for which of them - they felt was the most suitable  given 
their circumstances at the time.
did things happen  as they should  have done?
Overall I think  the cost of PPI was clearly disclosed to Mr and Mrs M because the loan 
agreement set out the premium, the interest charged over the term, the total cost and what 
that equated to as a monthly  cost.  While  this followed the telephone sales call, because Mr 
Ref: DRN49079643and Mrs M still had to complete other  documents to agree to have  PPI, I think they would 
have paid attention to the cost information set out here.
But the evidence  available doesnt  tell me if Mr and Mrs M were told everything they needed  
to know about  the policy  in a clear and timely manner. Ive already said I dont know what 
information was given during the call. WHP says a keyfacts leaflet was sent out with the 
paperwork after the call. But that doesnt tell me if Mr and Mrs M were clearly told about the 
main features of the cover or whether the significant exclusions and limitations of cover were  
highlighted to them, which  I expect  WHP to have done.
So based  on the information  available Im not persuaded  everything  fairly and reasonably  
happened as it should have.
have Mr and Mrs M lost out and if so, to what extent?
But this doesnt  automatically mean Mr and Mrs M should get back what they paid for the 
policy. I need to go on and consider if and to what extent theyve lost out as a result  of the 
things WHP didnt do. And having  done  so, I dont think  Mr and Mrs M have lost out  I dont  
think they would have arrived at a different decision and declined  the cover  if WHP had done  
more. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible  he qualified  for the cover and its benefits.
Mr and Mrs M chose  to take out the cover, so they must have been interested in it  
albeit Im mindful they likely did so based  on incomplete information.
Mr M was employed and in good  health, so the significant exclusions of cover  e.g. 
for pre-existing medical conditions  wouldnt  have  mattered to him.
the policy wasnt fundamentally unsuitable  or inappropriate  for Mr M. And in my view 
didnt operate  significantly  different to what Mr and Mrs M would have expected 
based on the information they did get.
Mr M had some  sick pay  three months full pay followed by three months half pay. 
But Mr and Mrs M elected cover  for Mr M so they must have felt a need for additional 
cover. And the policy would have paid out alongside any sick pay and for longer if 
necessary allowing  Mr Ms sick pay to be used to meet other  ongoing household 
and/or personal  expenditure.
Mr and Mrs M were  taking  on a not inconsiderable regular monthly financial 
commitment, so I think the policy would have been  useful  to them and would have 
helped them out if Mr M found himself  in the unfortunate positon of being  unable to 
work.
The cost was clearly  disclosed  as I said above - but in any event it appears to have 
been affordable  
The policy offered  a pro-rata refund  if cancelled  early, so Mr and Mrs M wouldnt 
have lost out if theyd decided   as they ultimately  did  to repay  the loan before the 
end of its natural  term.
So overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, I find Mr and Mrs M have not suffered a loss 
as a result  of taking  out PPI - I think their decision to take it out would have been the same if 
WHP had done more.
I can see that Mr and Mrs M originally made  a complaint about the charges levied by WHP 
on the loan account. Its unclear to me where  this particular point arises from. 
Ref: DRN49079644But as the adjudicator said, theres  nothing to indicate  WHP  added  any charges to the loan 
account. And Ive nothing  further to add on this matter.
Finally - Ive also thought  about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI and whether 
WHP treated  them  unfairly. 
WHP has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of what  they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how WHP  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think WHP treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M 
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs M have not suffered loss as 
a result of taking out PPI alongside their loan, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4907964