K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs B took out to cover  the payments  on a store card in 
1997. Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer,  should  take responsibility  for the complaint.  
So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mrs B says she wasnt  aware PPI 
was added to her account and cant remember much detail about the sale.  And FICL hasnt 
been able to send us any evidence from the sale showing Mrs B chose to take the PPI. Due 
to the amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont  think  this is 
unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that FICL  made Mrs B think she had to have the PPI. 
So I think its likely FICL made it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs B any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. Mrs B says she cant remember how much sick pay she was entitled  to. But, 
based on her employer and length of employment, I think its likely the policy couldve paid 
out for longer than her sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on any savings 
or other means she had to make  her repayments  if she wasnt  earning.  So it looks like the 
PPI couldve been useful to her if something  went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs B off taking it out.
Ref: DRN47358052my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4735805