K821x#15complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the compensation  offered by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) for the mis-sale  of his Free Standing Additional  Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) plan.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 29 January 2020. Ive recapped the background below:
In 1993 Mr E started an FSAVC plan with Prudential. At this time, it was recorded that he 
planned to leave his employers scheme in 1-2 years time due to poor returns. Mr E also 
had a workplace  pension administered by Prudential. 
In 1995 Mr E changed employers and his FSAVC  plan was updated accordingly. 
Mr E began enquiring  about both his workplace  pension  and his FSAVC plan in January 
2017. The correspondence provided  by Prudential indicates he called them  at least twice  in 
February 2017 to discuss his FSAVC and he asked about it again in March 2017.
 
In December 2017 Mr E complained to Prudential  that it had calculated  his annual  pension 
from his FSAVC incorrectly.  Prudential didnt uphold this complaint.
 
Mr E complained to Prudential again  in January 2018 regarding  the illustrations and 
quotations hed received.  Prudentials call note from this time says: call from PH explaining 
clearly why he doesnt understand the figures and he wanted  his complaint reopened as he 
is not at all clear these figures are correct.  A recording of the call isnt available so I cant  be 
sure what  Mr E said about why the figures werent correct, but from what has been provided,  
it seems Mr E thought  the figures should  have been  higher.
 
Prudential accepted Mr E had received  a poor level of service as it wasnt  made clear 
throughout the illustrations that his income  was based on an estimated inflation rate. 
Prudential apologised  for letting Mr E down and offered him £50 as a token of our regret for 
the service he received.
Unhappy with this, and with Prudentials response to his ongoing complaint about his 
workplace pension, Mr E complained to The Pension Ombudsman. The part of his complaint 
relating to the FSAVC was subsequently referred to this service. By email of 4 June 2018 we 
let Prudential know his complaint was with us, summarising it as consumer is complaining 
about advice.  (complaint is about  FSAVC  with Prudential and the performance of the funds 
invested in). Mr Es complaint form, a copy of which was provided  to Prudential said he 
wanted compensation for losses caused by advice and fund management. 
One of our investigators  looked into his complaint, and let Prudential  know  that it seemed to 
be about the sale of the FSAVC plan as Mr E didnt think the performance was reflective of 
what was told to him at the time he started  the plan. 
Prudential agreed  to looked  into the sale of the FSAVC  plan and issued its final response in 
October 2018. In it Mr Es concerns were summarised as:
You feel the performance of your plan is not reflective of the guarantees you were 
provided when  your FSAVC was arranged.
Ref: DRN47488872You are unhappy with the fund value  and believe you were told at the time of sale 
this would be much higher. 
You have received  a letter from us about the figures we have provided you with and 
we have also sent you a cheque for £50, you are unhappy with this offer.
Prudential didnt uphold  the complaint points raised. But it said it was not certain the 
difference in charges between the FSAVC plan and an in-house AVC  with likely cheaper 
charges  were  made clear to Mr E at the time of sale. Prudential  said:
Whilst I can see you were  aware  of the alternative option of an in-house AVC,  it is not 
clear if you were made fully aware of the difference in charges between the FSAVC policy 
and the in-house  AVC arrangement offered by your employers  pension  scheme when 
your policy was first taken out.  I am very sorry this happened.
Because of this failing  in their sales process, Prudential conducted a loss calculation on a 
charges only basis  and determined Mr E had suffered a financial loss. It offered him a lump 
sum payment of £8,771.18  in full and final settlement for the mis-sale. This sum represents  
the difference in fund value without  any plan or investment charges, plus interest. 
Mr E didnt accept this offer. He said in summary:
He had not received an apology either in writing or by financial compensation.
All the offer does  is to replace funds  that they took for not making  me aware  of the 
substantial financial penalty  for having a FSAVC as opposed  to an ordinary AVC. 
He wanted  the compensation paid into his fund where it should have been all along.
He would like a written apology and increased  financial  compensation for the distress 
the situation has caused him. 
Our investigator considered Mr Es complaint and what  he said about  the redress offered. 
The investigator concluded:
The approach  used by Prudential to redress the failing in the sales process they 
identified is in line with the guidance set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Prudential doesnt need  to do anything  more.
There wasnt sufficient evidence that Mr E was provided with guarantees regarding 
the plans  performance at the time of sale. 
The £50 compensation offered was fair for the inconvenience caused  by the lack of 
clarity in Prudentials illustrations. Without evidence of financial loss or specific 
detriment he thought this was sufficient.  
Mr E didnt agree and said he hasnt been compensated for the mis-selling.  He also said 
hes lost sleep worrying and the level of distress  hes experienced dealing with this since  
2017 is incalculable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was referred for a decision. After the 
complaint was passed to me, I got in touch  with Prudential to let it know  I thought additional 
compensation for the trouble and upset  Mr E experienced  was warranted and suggested it 
pay a further £300.  
Prudential explained  it felt no additional compensation was needed because it timely  
investigated the mis-sale  complaint and so it wasnt responsible for any distress and 
inconvenience Mr E may have suffered.  
Ref: DRN47488873Mr E later said he would  accept compensation as a lump sum payment.
I considered everything  that had been  provided and thought  the complaint should  be partially 
upheld. My provisional findings  were as follows:
Prudential has agreed that it made  a mistake  in the quotation it sent Mr E. It offered  him £50 
for this. And Prudential  has accepted  the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. It conducted a loss 
assessment and offered redress. Prudential agreed to provide redress  because  it wasnt  
satisfied the sale of the FSAVC was compliant with the requirements in place at the time. 
Prudential has not said the FSAVC was unsuitable  and I am not making a finding  about the 
suitability of the plan. The only issue for me to consider is whether the redress offered is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr E believes he should  be entitled  to more compensation than has been  
offered and I appreciate his strength of feeling  about this. In rejecting Prudentials offer to 
redress the FSAVC mis-sale,  he said he hadnt  received an apology  either  in writing or by 
financial compensation. He said the compensation offered only put him where he ought  to 
be. 
Given this, I think it is useful  to reflect on the role of this service.  This service looks  to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer  and a business. Should we decide  that 
something has gone wrong  we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have been in if the problem hadnt  
occurred. This service isnt intended  to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that 
is the role of the industry regulator, the FCA. If Mr E has concerns about Prudential  and the 
way it does business, he can report this to the regulator. 
Once Prudential  identified problems with the sale of the FSAVC  plan,  it undertook a loss 
assessment to put Mr E in the financial position  he would have been in had he taken out an 
in-house AVC plan with his employer. Having reviewed the redress offer letter,  including the 
key facts and assumptions document included  with it, Im satisfied Prudential conducted the 
loss assessment in line with the methodology established by the industry regulator and 
offered the difference, plus 8% interest, to Mr E as an ex-gratia payment. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest the redress  calculations  are incorrect or otherwise do not accurately 
reflect the financial loss resulting from the difference in charges between  the FSAVC plan 
and the in-house  AVC option. So I think this offer provides fair and reasonable compensation 
for Mr Es financial loss. And I note that Prudential did offer Mr E a written  apology for the 
mis-sale in its final response  letter, as Ive quoted above. 
But in putting consumers where they ought to be, I must also consider any non-financial loss 
suffered, including any trouble and upset the consumer may have suffered as a result  of the 
businesss actions. In this case, Mr E has been complaining about the value  of his FSAVC  
pension since early  January 2017.  Although he didnt  phrase his complaint as the FSAVC  
plan being mis-sold, its clear from what Ive been provided, Mr E believed his FSAVC 
benefits should have been  higher.  Prudential  responded to Mr Es complaints on the narrow 
basis of whether the current information  it provided  him was accurate and clear.  In this 
regard, Prudential didnt  think  it had done anything wrong, except not explaining  more  clearly 
the income quotations were based on an estimated rate of inflation. It offered Mr E £50 for 
this. I think on this tailored  view of Mr Es concerns, £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation.
 
Ref: DRN47488874That said,  Prudential could have done  more to address  Mr Es concerns. It appears 
Prudential didnt look at the underlying reasons for Mr Es belief that his FSAVC benefits 
should be higher.  I consider this a lost opportunity to have resolved things sooner for Mr E. I 
say this because  from everything Ive been provided, it seems  clear Mr E thought  his 
benefits would be greater because of what he said he was told when he was sold the plan. 
Yet it wasnt  until Mr E brought his complaint  to this service that Prudential  considered the 
sale of the plan. That Prudential then investigated the sale and issued a timely response 
doesnt assuage  the distress  Mr E experienced over the value  of his plan since  at least  early 
2017. 
But Mr E also complained about  his workplace pension throughout this time and Im mindful  
this would have  also contributed to the feelings  of uncertainty, stress  and worry he 
experienced. 
So taking all of the above into consideration, given what I know  about  the amount of time 
and effort  Mr Es spent to sort out his concerns about the FSAVC plan and bearing in mind 
what hes said about his sleepless nights, stress  and worry, I intend to direct Prudential  to 
pay Mr E a further £300.
I invited both Mr E and Prudential to comment on my provisional decision.  
Prudential responded that it had no further  comments  to make.
Mr E also confirmed he had nothing more to add.
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. With no additional comments  to 
consider, there is little more to say other than my decision remains as before for the reasons 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision, restated above. 
This means  I am partially upholding  Mr Es complaint and Prudential should compensate 
Mr E as directed in my provisional  decision and set out above. 
Ref: DRN47488875my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Es complaint. 
In addition to the £8,771.18 ex-gratia payment and the £50 already  offered, I direct The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  to pay Mr E a further  £300  for his distress and 
worry.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748887