K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited declined  a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy  when a named driver on the policy  had an accident. She wants it to 
indemnify her for the claim  and subsequent  court actions. 
background
Ms W was a passenger in the car when the named  driver had an accident.  She called Sabre 
to notify the claim  and she said they were working  in the area at the time.  Sabre  said 
business use wasnt covered by the policy and so it declined the claim.  Ms W said the 
named driver was using the car for personal reasons and was dropping her off on the way.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought the 
policy didnt cover business use, just social, domestic, pleasure  and commuting (to and from 
a fixed place of work). Ms W had said she didnt have a fixed  place of work.  But the 
investigator thought  shed  told Sabre  that she was working  in the area,  which was business 
use. And so she didnt  think  Sabre needed  to accept  the claim.
Ms W replied that the named driver wasnt driving the car for business  purposes. She 
provided further evidence that she said showed  that the car wasnt  used  for business 
purposes. She said Sabre should have  asked the named  driver  the purpose  of his journey. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms W 
and to Sabre on 24 July 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I could understand  that this has been  a stressful and frustrating  experience for Ms W. Nearly 
five years after the accident the matter has yet to be settled and her family faces significant 
financial consequences. 
Sabre said it declined  indemnity for the claim as the car was being  used for purposes 
outside the policy. Specifically, it said the car was insured for social, domestic, pleasure and 
commuting (to and from a fixed place  of work). But it said this didnt  include business  use. It 
said this was how the car was being  used  at the time. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
Sabre said that when Ms W took out the policy through a comparison site she would have 
been asked a question about the usage of the car. Due to the passage of time, this question  
may have  changed.  But I looked  at the recent  question asked about this on the comparison 
site. And I thought  it was a clear  question about  the cars usage.  Mr W evidently selected 
social, domestic, pleasure  including  commuting,  but not business use, as this is stated  on 
her policy documents.
Ref: DRN40770732Sabre relied on what  Ms W told it when she was asked what  she was doing in the area at 
the time of the accident. Sabre said Ms W replied we were  working in the area.  I listened to 
the call Ms W made to Sabre at the time of the accident. I didnt think  the agent put words 
into her mouth. Ms W also told the agent that the named driver worked  for her and his role 
was as a driver and a manager for her company.
Ms W later recalled that the named driver  was using the car for personal reasons. And he 
later provided a statement to attest this. But I couldnt see that Ms W told Sabre this at the 
time. So I didnt think  it was unreasonable for Sabre to rely on what  Ms W told it at the time 
as that was closer  to the actual event.
Ms W also said later that the named driver was dropping  her off in the area. She thought  this 
meant the car was being used for commuting,  which  was covered by the policy.  But Ms W 
told us that she doesnt  have a fixed place of work. So I didnt think  the purpose  of the 
journey could be considered to be for commuting under the policy  terms and conditions.  
So I thought  Ms W gave the incorrect answer  when she was asked about the cars usage.  
Sabre has said that it would have offered Ms W cover for some  types  of business use, 
though with an increased premium. But I couldnt see evidence  that she chose this or ever 
requested business  use. Nor had I seen that Ms W has ever said she made  a careless  error  
in selecting the wrong  type of cover.  
So I thought  that, under the relevant  legislation,  it was fair and reasonable for Sabre to treat 
the non-disclosure as reckless.  This was because  Ms W should reasonably have  known that 
the information she gave about  the cars usage wasnt true. In that case  I think  Sabre was 
entitled to decline  the claim. 
I could see that Sabre considered the evidence that Ms W provided about her use of street  
cars for business  use. But it said these didnt  specify a driver and didnt assist it with the 
usage of the insured car. It still relied  on what Ms W told it when she was asked what  she 
was doing in the area at the time of the accident. I thought that was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Subject to any further representations by Ms W or Sabre, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold  this complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W replied reiterating her position. She restated that she didnt require the car for 
business use as she had alternative arrangements for that. She said she hadnt said that 
shed used the car for commuting as she had a virtual office. She said that if shed needed 
cover for business use, then shed have  requested  this. 
Ms W said that at the time of the accident  it was the named driver  who was driving,  not 
herself. She said she was working  at the time and the named  driver made  a short  detour for 
her, but this didnt have anything to do with him using the car for business.  
Ref: DRN40770733Ms W reiterated that she uses street cars for business use and provided evidence  to show 
this and that no street car was booked for the day of the accident. She also said she didnt 
have any work for that day and provided evidence that she said showed  this. 
Ive looked carefully  at what Ms W has said in response to my provisional  decision. I accept 
her point that there may have been a misunderstanding about using the car for commuting 
on the day in question.  Clearly Ms W wasnt commuting as she has a virtual office.
Ms W provided evidence that shed  booked street cars for her business  use. She said these  
show her to be the driver,  which I can see they do. But Ms W also told us that the named 
driver is the driver of the street  cars as she isnt confident in driving vans. So I cant  see that 
this provides Sabre  with further evidence about the use of the insured  car on the day of the 
accident. 
Sabre relied on what  Ms W told it at the time of the accident, that we were working in the 
area to decide  that the car was being  used for business purposes. Ms W said that she was 
working in the area (checking on previous work) but that the named  driver wasnt.  
But I can see that Sabre  has already  considered this point and the statement provided  by the 
named driver 14 months later that he was using the car for personal  use. It said this 
conflicted with what Ms W had said at the time of the accident.  It relied  on Ms Ws first 
statement. I still think that was fair and reasonable as this was closer to the event.  
I havent received  any representations or new evidence that changes my provisional 
decision, so I can see no reason  not to maintain it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077073