K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about interest  being added to his fixed sum loan agreement with Creation  
Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
In December 2017 Mr K purchased some sofas and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation.  The agreement provided for an interest  free period of 12 months, 
with the ability to pay the purchase price in full without any interest on or before 29 
December 2018.
Mr K says he was told by the retailer that the 12 month interest free period wouldnt start to 
run until he received his goods. The sofas  werent delivered until March 2018 so Mr K 
presumed the interest free period would run from then.
Creation wrote to Mr K after the agreement started and reminded him that the account could 
be settled free of interest by payment in full by 29 December 2018. Creation also wrote to Mr 
K in November 2018 reminding him again. 
Mr K says he became  aware that there  was an issue in January 2019 when the full amount 
of interest was added  to the loan. He contacted  both the retailer  and Creation but was 
unable to resolve matters  so he complained  to this service. Mr K says hes happy to pay for 
the goods but he doesnt think he should have  to pay interest  because  he was told that the 
interest free period  would run from the date when the goods were delivered,  not from the 
date when the agreement was signed.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the loan documents  made it clear that 
the purchase price  needed to be settled by December 2018 in order to avoid interest  being 
charged. She also said the business had written to Mr K to remind him of this.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the retailer told him that his payment was due a year after delivery 
and that the paperwork would be amended. He said he was unable  to afford to pay the 
interest which had been  added to the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says he was told that the 12 month interest free period  wouldnt start to run until the 
goods were delivered.  He feels  that he was mis-sold the agreement.
In order to uphold  this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the retailer  made an untrue 
statement of fact and that this induced  Mr K to enter into the agreement. There  are no 
written notes to evidence what was discussed between  Mr K and the retailer. I wasnt  
present so I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
available contemporaneous documents as the best evidence of what was discussed and 
agreed between  the parties.
Ive looked at the fixed sum loan agreement. This clearly states the special offer date 
payment as 29 December 2018. It also states that the total amount of interest  payable  if the 
Ref: DRN42869102account isnt settled by that date and sets out what the monthly  payments  will be from 
January 2019.  Mr K has signed the loan agreement and I would have expected  him to have 
read it before doing so.
Ive also taken into account the letters which were  sent to Mr K reminding him that payment 
should be made by 29 December  2018.  Mr K has said that these letters were sent to the 
address at which the goods were delivered  which isnt his residential address. But he hasnt 
said that he didnt  receive the letters. In any event, its up to Mr K to keep Creation advised  
of his current address.
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about  his discussions with the retailer. Whilst I 
dont doubt that Mr K believed that the interest  free period ran from the date of delivery, I 
cant see that he took any actions which were consistent with this. So for instance, when Mr 
K received the reminder letter telling  him that payment needed to be made by 29 December 
2018, I would have expected him to contact Creation and query when the interest free period 
was ending.
I can see that Mr K cancelled his direct  debit instruction in November 2018. Its not clear why 
he did this. Its possible that he cancelled it having  received  the reminder letter  advising  him 
that payments  would commence in January 2019.  But if this was the case  I wouldve 
expected Mr K to contact  Creation to query  the date and explain his actions.
Based on what Ive seen,  and whilst  I understand that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, Im unable to uphold the complaint because  Im not persuaded that 
the agreement  was mis-sold. I dont think Creation has done anything wrong in adding  
interest to the loan because the loan documents make  it clear  that this is what would happen 
if payment wasnt made by 29 December 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4286910