K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which  she couldnt afford to pay back.
background
This complaint is about three loans Satsuma provided to Mrs C between  January 2018 and 
August 2018.  
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date Taken Date
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 28/01/2018Outstanding
since
17/05/201912 £600.00 £99.60
2 21/03/2018 04/07/2018 3 £400.00 £196.80
3 12/08/2018Outstanding since
17/05/201912 £1,000.00 £265.60
Mrs C said she was in a debt spiral and the loans werent affordable. She feels that Satsuma 
didnt do proper affordability checks.  And she said that the loans it provided  made  her 
financial situation worse.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it wasnt unfair for Satsuma to have 
provided loans  1 and 2. But he said that by loan 3, Mrs C had shown signs  that she was 
struggling to repay some  of her previous Satsuma loans and so there was a significant risk 
she wouldve been unable  to sustainably meet the monthly repayments for this loan. Our 
adjudicator felt that Satsuma shouldnt have lent loan 3 to Mrs C.
Neither Satsuma nor Mrs C has responded to our adjudicators view.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
Ref: DRN40565422With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mrs C could  sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.  
Satsuma has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs C. It asked Mrs C for 
details of her income and normal  expenditure, including what she was spending  on other 
loans. And Satsuma carried out checks on Mrs Cs credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Satsuma to give Mrs C loans 1 and 2 on 
the basis of the information it had recorded about her. 
Satsuma expected Mrs C would be paying loan 1 over 12 monthly repayments  and she 
took out loan 2 just a couple months  later, when she was still paying for loan 1. 
Ref: DRN40565423So I think Satsuma ought to have gone  further  in its affordability checks  and looked  in a bit 
more detail at Mrs Cs spending when she applied for this borrowing to make sure it properly 
understood her financial situation before agreeing  these loans. If Satsuma had done this, it 
wouldve seen Mrs C was already paying  for other high cost borrowing elsewhere  when she 
applied to Satsuma  for loans 1 and 2. But even taking this information into account, I think  
the combined repayments that Mrs C agreed to make  on all her loans still looked  affordable  
compared to the income that Satsuma  had worked  out she had available  to spend on paying 
for borrowing. 
So overall, I dont  think Ive seen enough  to say that Satsuma was wrong to lend loans 1 and 
2 to Mrs C. 
As Mrs C hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans 1 and 2, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
But when Mrs C asked for loan 3 in August 2018 Satsuma was able to see that by that time 
shed been having some problems making  her loan repayments on time.  
It looks like there may have been  some concerns already about her financial situation 
because Satsuma has sent me information showing that it rejected two loan applications 
from Mrs C after she took out loan 2 and before Satsuma agreed loan 3. 
And the available  information I can see indicates  that if Satsuma had done proportionate 
checks before agreeing  loan 3 it wouldve seen that Mrs C had been borrowing substantial 
amounts from another high cost lender more  or less continuously throughout the same  
period that shed been borrowing from Satsuma. So I think Satsuma shouldve realised that 
there were clear indications  that Mrs C was having problems managing  her money   and it 
looked likely that she was borrowing from one lender to pay another.  This wasnt sustainable 
for her and so Satsuma  shouldnt have provided loan 3. 
For these reasons, Im upholding  Mrs Cs complaint about loan 3.  
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
If Satsuma has sold the debt to a third party it should buy this back so it can carry out these 
directions  or otherwise  tell the third party that it needs to carry out these steps  to put things  
right.
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 3, and treat any 
repayments made by Mrs C as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. If there  is still an outstanding balance on loans 1 and 3, then the amounts calculated 
in "A" and "B" should be used to repay  any balance remaining on these outstanding 
loans. If this results in a surplus  then the surplus should be paid to Mrs C. However if 
there is still an outstanding balance then I remind Satsuma that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs C.
Ref: DRN40565424D.Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Mrs Cs credit  file in relation to 
loan 3 when it is paid. If it sold any of the loans Satsuma should ask the debt 
purchaser to remove any adverse information it recorded about  this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about  loan 3 and direct Provident Personal Credit  Limited  
(trading as Satsuma) to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4056542