K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy Thistle Insurance Services Ltd (Thistle) invited her to renew her pet 
insurance policy after her dog had passed  away.
background 
Mrs Ss dog, who Ill call H, sadly passed away. Two months later she received a renewal 
invite from Thistle  for the insurance policy. Mrs S was very upset by this and called Thistle  to 
cancel the policy.  She feels  it should  have a process  in place to avoid this happening  again. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and spoke with Thistle about  what had happened.  
He suggested  it make a compensation payment of £75 to Mrs S to recognise the upset she 
was caused. Thistle agreed to do this. 
Mrs S didnt think the compensation payment was enough to reflect  the stress and upset 
shed been caused at a very difficult time. 
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Thistle has agreed to pay Mrs S £75 for the impact its mistake had, its clear  Mrs S 
doesnt feel this adequately reflects the distress she was caused. So, whats  left for me to 
decide is the level of compensation which should  be paid.
In reaching a decision about  fair compensation for Mrs S I have considered what she has 
said about the upset she was caused.  And, that she had to call to explain the situation to get 
the policy cancelled.  
I am however also mindful of the fact Thistle is the administrator of the policy. It relies on 
being told by the insurer or a customer that a pet has passed away,  before it can update the 
policy details. 
In this case it seems the insurer let Thistle know H had passed away  only four working days  
before the renewal  invite was sent to Mrs S. Thistle has accepted it didnt action the request  
to cancel the policy in time to prevent the letter  being sent to Mrs S. It explained renewal 
invites are prepared 28 days  in advance of a renewal date, so this was already in process at 
the point it was informed. 
Its difficult to put a value  on the stress  and upset Mrs S experienced. Had Thistle  acted 
immediately on the information it was given,  this situation would have been avoided.  
Overall, however, having considered all the circumstances and while I have natural 
sympathy for Mrs S, Im satisfied the award of £75 compensation recommended by the 
investigator is fair.
Mrs S has said she wants to be reassured this wont happen again to other customers. While 
I appreciate this is important to Mrs S, we look at each complaint on its individual merits and 
I wont be able to provide  this reassurance to her. 
Ref: DRN44568072What seems to have occurred in this case was a matter of unfortunate timing in relation to 
how close Thistle were  told of Hs passing, to the renewal letter  being  sent out. Thistle may 
choose to look at how quickly these queries are acted upon in the future, but this isnt 
something I can suggest or direct it to do. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against  Thistle Insurance Services  Ltd and direct  it to pay her £75 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4456807