K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms B say Bradford & Bingley  Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr W and Ms B bought  the policy in 1990  at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W and Ms B for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £275 a month  towards Mr W and 
Ms Bs mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim. The benefit was split so Mr W 
would have received £175 a month and Ms B would have received £100 a month.  At the 
time, it cost £13.75  a month. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a HGV  driver.  He told us he was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  their mortgage should  he be unable to 
work. Mr W has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Ms B was employed as a clerk. She told us she was also not entitled  to any sick pay and 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  their mortgage should she be unable  to work. Ms B 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
2001. 
Mr W and Ms Bs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr W and Ms Bs representative says:
 
Bradford & Bingley  failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W and Ms B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr W and 
Ms Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bradford & Bingley 
should have told Mr W and Ms B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bradford & Bingley should  
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W 
and Ms B and the impact they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN43021912The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr W and Ms B received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W and Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr W and Ms Bs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Ms Bs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN43021913The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bradford & Bingley at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI 
Code and these  other  publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr W and Ms Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bradford & Bingley  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr W and Ms Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bradford & Bingley  gave advice, whether it advised Mr W and Ms B with 
reasonable care and skill  in particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or 
suitable for them, given  their needs  and circumstances. 
-Whether Bradford  & Bingley gave Mr W and Ms B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN43021914-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W 
and Ms B, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W and Ms B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and Ms B 
and Bradford & Bingley,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr W and Ms Bs complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr W and Ms B know they had a choice?
Bradford & Bingley  had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Bradford & Bingley  has provided a copy of Mr W and Ms Bs mortgage  application form.  This 
has a brief description of what  PPI is and a box to select  PPI. The box has been ticked  and 
Mr W and Ms B have signed  the form, indicating they agree with all of the selections on it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W and Ms B knew  the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bradford & Bingley  provide advice?
Bradford & Bingley  says it didnt provide any advice and Mr W and Ms B havent said 
anything to make me think it did.
This means  Bradford & Bingley  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr W and 
Ms B. Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W and Ms B were given a broad description of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr W 
and Ms B were unable  to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr W and Ms B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bradford & Bingley gave 
sufficient information  about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr W 
and Ms B agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Bradford & Bingley  gave  Mr W and Ms B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN43021915Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr W and Ms Bs representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr W and 
Ms Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr W and Ms Bs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W and Ms B about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr W and Ms Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr W and Ms B have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bradford & Bingley ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Bradford & Bingleys shortcomings have on Mr W and Ms B? To what 
extent did Mr W and Ms B suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Bradford & Bingley didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to 
Mr W and Ms B. So Ive gone  on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr W and Ms B would have still taken  out the policy, had Bradford & Bingley done 
things properly. 
Mr W and Ms B say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W and Ms B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr W and Ms B chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr W and 
Ms B thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr W and Ms B have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
Ref: DRN43021916The information Mr W and Ms B were given  about  the benefit was clear. But the information  
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear 
as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr W and Ms B knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Bradford & Bingley told them the exact premium 
at the point they applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr W and Ms B 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Bradford & Bingley at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr W and Ms B would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W and Ms B thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mr W and 
Ms B received treatment for in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy, or 
recurring medical conditions and symptoms that return  within 12 months after the 
policy start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W and 
Ms B werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for unemployment for up to 24 months, rather  than 
the remaining  term of the mortgage, unlike the accident and sickness  benefit,  which  
would have continued until they returned to work.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr W and Ms B pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  
that the policy wasnt as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W and Ms B 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr W and Ms Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr W and Ms B were eligible for its benefits and 
it provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr W and Ms B wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W 
and Ms B didnt have  any pre-existing medical conditions and were  in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W and Ms B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN43021917Bradford & Bingley  may not have  told Mr W and Ms B that any claim they made  for 
unemployment would be limited to a 24-month  period. This may have differed from what they 
expected and might have  hoped for  but they didnt have any other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr W and Ms B would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments for an unemployment claim, or until they 
returned to work for an accident and sickness claim,  would have been of benefit to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr W and Ms B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W and Ms B would still have taken out the policy.  The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr W and Ms B were made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr W and Ms B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  
on cover.
Mr W and Ms Bs representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W and Ms B would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr W and 
Ms Bs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr W and Ms B found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W and Ms B believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W and Ms B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN43021918That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bradford & Bingley should pay Mr W and Ms B compensation, 
as that would put them in a better position than they would  have  been  in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W and Ms B think Bradford & Bingley misrepresented  the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI.  While  I accept  there is a possibility a court might 
conclude some of Bradford & Bingleys  statements  misrepresented the contract, in my 
opinion the reason why Bradford & Bingley failed to act fairly and reasonably  was not 
because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  but because the overall 
information Bradford  & Bingley gave Mr W and Ms B, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1990 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr W and Ms Bs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Bradford & Bingley  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and 
Ms B and about  the remedy  a court might  award  if it were to find that Bradford & Bingley had 
been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr W and Ms B in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
\
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4302191