K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about a car he bought using credit  supplied by Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc (Santander). He says its been  of unsatisfactory  quality and he wants  to reject  it and get 
his money back.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Cs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr C bought a used car in June 2018 using a point of sale loan that was provided by 
Santander. At the point of sale the car had completed 69,427 miles and was about  11 years 
old.
Mr C experienced problems with the car. He took it back  to the dealers in July 2018  and 
asked them to look at a grinding  noise  that he could hear. He says the dealership told him 
this wasnt anything to worry  about so he took the car away.
In October  2018 he took the car back again.  They replaced the turbo  as the car was losing 
power. 
In early November 2018 Mr C complained to Santander as he said the engine  management 
light was on and the car was smoking  and making an unusual  noise when the ignition was 
turned on. He told them he wanted to reject  the car. 
Santander organised an independent  inspection in November 2018.  The inspector wasnt  
able to drive the car as it was blocked  in. He could  not identify any unusual  noise on start up 
and noted there was no smoke when revving  the car. He identified a fault code relating to 
fan speed  but he concluded  by explaining that further investigation was required  as the 
inability to carry out a road test meant that faults  could not be confirmed.
So the car was taken  to a specialist dealership and they carried  out further investigations.  
They identified a broken prop shaft. Santander  explained that they werent responsible  for 
things that went  wrong  with the car after it was purchased and they therefore  rejected Mr Cs 
claim.
Mr C therefore referred  his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided her 
opinion. She noted  that video evidence provided  by Mr C suggested  he was still 
experiencing problems with the car. She thought he could have rejected it within  the first 
thirty days as hed raised issues with a grinding noise. But she could not see that this option  
had been offered to him. She thought that, irrespective of the garages comments that the 
prop shaft problems were  unrelated, there was evidence that there had been a lot of issues 
with this car and she thought Mr C should now be allowed to reject  it. 
She was of the opinion that Santander should  therefore end the agreement  and return 
Mr Cs deposit. She thought they should also refund  half a monthly  finance  instalment in 
recognition of the time Mr C had been  without his car whilst it was being fixed  and that 
Santander should pay him £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hed 
experienced.
Ref: DRN47121602But Santander disagreed. They said there was no evidence linking the turbo  fault to the 
subsequent prop shaft failure  and that this was the result of general wear  and tear. They 
noted that Mr C had had the car repaired himself  and they said the supplying dealership 
should have been given  the chance  to repair the car and the car could not be rejected until 
theyd had that opportunity. They therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there is sufficient evidence here to support Mr Cs claim but the redress Im expecting 
to direct is different  than that suggested by our investigator. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, through a point 
of sale loan, as is the case  here, it might be possible to recover  the money  paid through a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, the borrower  under a credit  agreement  has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  The quality  is satisfactory  if it meets the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the goods,  the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr C. The car here 
wasnt new. It was about 11 years old and had completed over 69,000 miles when Mr C 
bought it. So I think a reasonable person would expect some wear  and tear.
Legislation would also encourage me to take into account whether a car has been  suitably 
durable when  considering  if its been of satisfactory quality.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality Id think it fair to suggest there had been a breach of 
contract and to uphold  Mr Cs claim against Santander. 
Ref: DRN47121603But Santanders responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Theres a dispute  about whether the grinding  noise Mr C identified in July 2018 was a 
problem at all. Santander say that no fault was found and its clear  that was the case. But 
Mr C says the noise  was clearly related to the subsequent prop shaft failure and should have 
been rectified at the time. 
It is clear that Mr C did have problems with the car in the first couple of months. He had the 
turbo replaced and in the absence of agreement that his report of a grinding  noise was an 
issue with the car I am prepared to accept  this failure was the first repair  that was completed.  
I dont think its necessary to establish whether theres been a subsequent reoccurrence of 
this fault. Relevant legislation does  not give a business one chance  to repair each separate 
fault that may occur. Whether a vehicle  is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers  to the 
vehicle as a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the 
more likely it is the vehicle  isnt of satisfactory  quality.
Mr C complained to Santander  of further  problems in November 2018. It appears that hed 
raised these concerns with the dealership the previous month. This was within five months of 
purchase. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Faults were identified with the prop shaft. The garage appear to have suggested that this is 
normal wear and tear but Im not persuaded that a reasonable person would expect the prop 
shaft to fail on a car after only 70,000 or so miles. Im persuaded that this subsequent failure 
is a reason for Mr C to be allowed to reject the car as I dont think  the car has proven to be of 
satisfactory quality.
And even  if Im wrong  about  that I dont think this vehicle has been  shown  to be suitably 
durable. I say that because I can see that Mr C has had further problems with the car. Its 
now been SWORN off the road and I can see that in his relatively  short period of ownership  
hes reported:
a turbo  fault which required  a replacement turbo;
a fault with the radiator;
loss of power in reverse  which Mr C suggests is a possible Exhaust Gas 
Recirculation (EGR) fault 
a failed prop shaft
a parking brake fault
front axle/differential failure
So I think Mr C should be allowed to reject  this car and Ive therefore considered what  
redress I should order. 
I dont agree with the investigators  suggestion here.  She thought that Mr C should  be able to 
cancel his finance agreement but she didnt say what should happen to the car. Mr C owns 
Ref: DRN47121604the car and I dont  think it would be fair to Santander to cancel all future payments against 
the 36 month agreement, which ends in 2021,  whilst  Mr C still has the asset.
I think the agreement  should be cancelled in return for the car, which  Santander should 
arrange collection of. Theyd then be able to sell or agree  disposal of the car to offset their 
losses on the finance agreement. I think its reasonable to suggest Santander would  be likely 
to be able to agree this with the dealership.
Mr C appears  to have SORN  the vehicle after the axle/differential problem that was reported 
in September.  I think Santander should  refund any instalments hes paid towards his loan 
from that time.
The car has clearly been in the garage for several weeks  being repaired. So Im also 
expecting to ask Santander to refund a monthly  finance instalment in respect of this.
Its clear that Mr C has been inconvenienced by this matter. Hes had frequent  visits to 
garages to have the car repaired and has had to spend time constructing  his complaint to 
Santander and to this service.  In the circumstances  Id agree with the investigator  that 
Santander should pay him £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced. 
my provisional decision
Im expecting to tell Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc to:
cancel the finance agreement and collect the car from Mr C
refund  all instalments  paid by Mr C since September 2018 and add 8% simple 
interest per annum
refund  Mr Cs advance payment of £500 and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
refund  one monthly instalment made  towards the loan in respect of loss of use
pay Mr C £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
Ref: DRN47121605my findings
Mr C didnt provided any further comments and Santander didnt respond by the deadline so 
Ive found no reason  to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I am telling Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
cancel the finance agreement and collect the car from Mr C
refund  all instalments  paid by Mr C since September 2018 and add 8% simple 
interest per annum
refund  Mr Cs advance payment of £500 and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
refund  one monthly instalment made  towards the loan in respect of loss of use
pay Mr C £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712160