K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  National Westminster Bank  Plc hasnt given them a refund for a 
number of payments  they made  for a time share which they later upgraded. They  say the 
contract was misrepresented.
background
Mr and Mrs B paid two deposits by debit card in 2007. They paid the remaining balances  for 
the time share  by bank transfer.  They made  a further payment in 2008.  They  made a request 
for a refund from Natwest  in 2018. Natwest didnt  attempt the chargeback  as it was out of 
time. Mr and Mrs B complained but NatWest  stood by its decision.  It also explained there 
were no rights under s75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  as none of the payments were  
made using  credit. 
Mr and Mrs B asked  us to look into the matter. Our investigator concluded NatWest  hadnt 
acted unfairly by not raising the chargeback  as it was made out of time. Mr and Mrs B have 
asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman as they still believe they are entitled  to 
get their money  back. They believe our service is there  to protect customers and were 
hoping we would realise how much damage  has been done.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly  about  this matter and would really like a refund 
of the money  they paid out. But it needs to be remembered that it wasnt NatWest that sold 
them the products  at the heart of their complaint. I dont doubt they may have lost out 
financially, but my role is an impartial one  we do not protect consumers,  but consider 
complaints independently  - so we arent on the side of the business or the customer. My 
consideration here is whether or not NatWest has done anything wrong. 
A chargeback is not a legal right that Mr and Mrs B have. Chargeback schemes  are 
voluntary schemes  set up between card issuers   such as Visa, Mastercard  or American 
Express  and merchants.  In this case, I understand the debit cards were Visa debit cards 
and so it is Visas scheme rules  that apply.  
There are only certain activities that Visa allows chargeback rights for. And it has set time 
limits for chargebacks to be attempted. And it is Visa that actually makes the decision about 
whether or not to make  a chargeback  the bank  simply  makes a chargeback request. If a 
card issuer  (here  its NatWest) knows a chargeback  is out of time, or its unlikely to succeed, 
I wouldnt necessarily expect it to make a chargeback  request.  
The transactions for the time share  took place in 2007 and 2008. Under the scheme  rules  a 
chargeback can be attempted within 120 days from the transaction. But there  are some 
limited circumstances  where that can be extended  to 540 days.  As the transaction  here was 
for ongoing goods or services, the extended  time limit can apply. But Mr and Mrs B didnt  
raise their chargeback until 2018, many years  outside of that extended time frame. As the 
time limits are a defence  against a chargeback, I dont find NatWest was acting unfairly  
when not making  a chargeback request. 
Ref: DRN48834622It was right for NatWest  to consider whether  Mr and Mrs B had any rights  under s75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And it has correctly  explained that as none of the purchase  was 
made by credit, they have  no rights  under that provision. It also correctly  explained there  
were no chargeback rights at all for the bank transfers. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs B are in a difficult situation and have  possibly lost out. But I 
dont find NatWest has done anything wrong  given the scheme rules that apply. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883462