K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs B. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. Mrs 
B was sold the policy at the same time that she applied  for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs B has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Mrs B signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and shes ticked  a box to 
confirm she wanted  the PPI.  
Mrs B has suggested that the box might have been  pre-ticked by the assistant  making the 
sale. I cant say whether that definitely  happened or not. But other details relevant to Mrs B 
and the purchase  she was making,  including her bank account details, are also hand written, 
and thats likely to have been  done  by the assistant whilst collecting information from Mrs B. 
I think it more  likely than not the box was ticked after a discussion. 
Mrs B has said she doesnt remember the PPI being  explained to her. It doesnt appear  FICL 
recommended the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mrs Bs individual needs. This 
means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs 
B to decide  whether it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs B clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to 
Mrs B. So Ive thought  about whether better  information is likely to have made a difference.  
But given Mrs Bs circumstances at the time,  even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont  think its likely  to have made  a difference to her decision.  
I say this because  its likely the PPI could have  paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
And she could have kept in reserve any other  means she had for meeting her living  costs 
and debts. So the PPI is likely to have seemed potentially useful. And it doesnt look like 
shed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions  in the policy. 
Ref: DRN49361952my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4936195