K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs N payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be not be upheld.  Mr and Mrs N disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion  and so the complaint was passed  to me. When I looked at the case, 
I thought there were  some points, and some information, that hadnt yet been addressed. So 
I wrote  a provisional decision and asked for comments and any further evidence. I said the 
following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
complaint about  the PPI
Mr and Mrs N have said the PPI was added without their knowledge.  However it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation 
has done something wrong,  fairness  requires that the person making the allegation 
should present  evidence  that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require 
someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a long time 
ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added  without 
Mr and Mrs Ns knowledge or consent.   
Ive also looked  at whether there  were  other  possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think  they apply to this case. I will explain 
why.
Lloyds says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs N, and this means it 
had a higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ns particular  circumstances. But it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.  Being 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. Mr N was the person 
covered by the PPI. He was self-employed  and so not entitled to the sick pay and 
redundancy pay most employees would get; and Mr and Mrs N have  said they didnt 
have savings to fall back on. So the PPI benefits  could  have  put Mr and Mrs N in a 
more secure position, if they eventually lost income  due to Mr N falling sick or 
becoming unemployed. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out.
Some PPI policies made it difficult to claim if you were self-employed.  But Ive looked  
at the terms and conditions, and the wording of this particular  policy  doesnt put an 
unfair burden on self-employed policyholders. And in fact Mr N says he did make a 
successful claim  when  his business  ended.
Ref: DRN42330982Mr N has said that, because Mrs N wasnt covered by the policy,  shed have  been  at 
a disadvantage  if he had died  she would still have  had to meet  the household 
outgoings including the mortgage. However, I dont agree Mrs N was put at a 
disadvantage in this way. The PPI policy did not have a life insurance element. So 
she still wouldnt have received benefit if Mr N died, even if she had been covered by 
the policy.
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. (I 
accept that Mr and Mrs N are saying they were in fact told nothing  about the PPI 
being added.)  But I dont  anyway think full and clear  information about  the costs  
would have affected whether Mr and Mrs N took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs N would have been affected  by any of these.  And its likely 
they were eligible for the policy.
If I confirm my current view, this means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. But Lloyds  has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs N because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Lloyds  didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Lloyds handling  of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the approach taken by Lloyds during  its assessment of the 
complaint. I asked Lloyds  to give a more detailed response to these issues, and Ive 
incorporated this into an appendix, at the end of this provisional decision. 
In terms of the possible delays and inconveniences  caused by Lloyds, I dont think  its 
response is unreasonable.  
Mr N also says he was unable to hear what the Lloyds investigator said on the 
phone and feels he has been discriminated against  when Lloyds wrote: If I had 
spoken with you and obtained the additional  information, the outcome of my review 
may have  been  different
Lloyds response  indicates that this was a standard paragraph used when there has 
been no contact  between the investigator and the customer, and so there  has been 
limited information gathered. But in fact the timeline shows  that Lloyds had adapted it 
process by asking Mr N to write in with his responses to the questions,  and these 
were received before it issued its final decision. Lloyds says, the paragraph about 
telephone contact was not amended  to advise a written response was referred to. 
So I think it unlikely Lloyds did treat Mr N unfairly  because  of the difficulty he had on 
the phone   although I completely understand his alarm at what Lloyds said in its 
letter. 
Ref: DRN42330983In the review of the complaint undertaken first by the adjudicator and then by me, we 
always look at the case afresh. So, even if Lloyds  had looked at the case  wrongly, we 
would make our own assessment. In this particular case, as Ive explained above, I 
think Lloyds decision not to uphold the mis-sale  complaint is a reasonable one. 
In response, Mr N said he and his wife didnt agree with me. I have considered  those 
comments below. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr N said:
Had the policy been in joint names  and I had died, my wife would have been  able to 
claim under the terms of the policy to have  the mortgage paid for a period whilst she 
rearranged her affairs. Please also consider that if my wife had left me and 
discontinued her contribution to the household  budget I would have been able to 
make a claim to help me. However, had I deserted her and left her with all the 
outgoings to find, she would not have been able to benefit from the policy. Therefore 
she was disadvantaged because the policy was in my name only.
But this isnt how the PPI policy worked. It only paid out if the policy holder became unable to 
work through  sickness or unemployment. It wouldnt have paid out in the circumstances 
Mr N has mentioned. So I believe  Mrs N was not in reality disadvantaged  by not being 
included in the PPI policy. 
Mr N also said again that he had not known  PPI was being  added.  And that he only found 
out about it some time later when  he was worried about paying  his mortgage. However, in 
my provisional decision, I dealt with the difficulties  in evidence and fairness, if I made  a 
finding in his favour on this point. And that is still my view.
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  think the PPI was mis-
sold. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Lloyds  didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
Ref: DRN42330984But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233098