K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that Vitality  Health Limited  acted  unfairly and unreasonably by still charging  
her for insurance after she cancelled  the policy. She wants  a refund.
background
Mrs E had a life insurance policy which included private health insurance with Vitality.  She 
said that Vitality ended the health insurance policy  in May 2016  without  authorisation, but 
continued to take the full premiums until May 2017.  Mrs E asked for a refund and said that 
she didnt know about the cancellation  at all until she called to make a claim in 2019, when 
she was told three  times the health  cover  was removed in May 2016.  Vitality didnt respond 
until after Mrs E complained to us.
Vitality said that the health insurance element of the insurance was removed  when the global 
policy renewed in 2017. The premiums reduced  as a result  from then.  Vitality  also said that 
its staff incorrectly  recorded that the cancellation  date was May 2016, but as the premiums 
were paid in full, it wouldve honoured any valid claim made after this date until May 2017. It 
offered £100 for the inconvenience caused to Mrs E.
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. He noted  that in the final 
response letter, Vitality said that the health  insurance policy  was ended  on 5 December 
2016, and supported a view that Vitality was giving a poor service and didnt investigate the 
complaint properly. The investigator accepted that Vitality had supplied  a copy of a letter to 
Mrs E in 2017 telling  her that the health  cover  would be removed from 13 May 2017, but 
didnt think that this letter had been sent to her as Mrs E was plainly unaware that the cover 
had ended from her attempt to claim in 2019.
The investigator was satisfied that Mrs E had health  cover in place until 12 May 2017 so he 
didnt think that there  was an error  with the premiums taken, but he thought the 
compensation offered for trouble and upset wasnt enough. He said Mrs E was repeatedly 
given incorrect information  about the policy ending in May 2016 and wasnt  told of the loss of 
cover at the time. The investigator said Vitalitys  handling of the complaint was slow and its 
response contained inconsistent information.  He said it should pay a total of £200 
compensation.
Vitality said that it accepted the investigators view, though the compensation recommended 
was excessive and objected to the finding that it hadnt sent the letters to Mrs E about the 
removal of the health  insurance cover (and noting  that the investigators finding here was the 
opposite of this services usual position). Mrs E asked for an ombudsmans  decision,  but 
didnt say why.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
In my view, its clear  that Vitality hasnt  dealt with Mrs E fairly or reasonably, which  includes 
its handling of her complaint. While complaints  handling isnt a regulated activity within this 
jurisdiction of this service, I can and will look at how Vitality has generally  conducted  itself.  
Complaints handling  in this case is ancillary  to a regulated activity, so I can consider it when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN45041562The first point is when  was the health  insurance element removed and why?  From the 
limited evidence available to me, it was removed with effect from 13 May 2017 due to a 
commercial decision made by Vitality. Insurers are able to make commercial  decisions, but 
must act fairly and reasonably. I dont agree with the investigator  that the letters notifying 
Mrs E of the change werent sent, but I do think they werent received as Vitality  sent them to 
Mrs Es old address, despite  being notified of the change by 2014. I note Mrs E doesnt 
appear to have noticed the reduction  in her premiums for some time and that Vitality notified  
Mrs Es financial adviser of the change.
I do think that as Mrs E had the benefit of the health insurance until May 2017, the premiums 
charged up to that date were correct and shouldnt  be refunded.
Vitalitys actions became  unfair and unreasonable from 2019  onwards. It incorrectly  told 
Mrs E that she wasnt covered by the health insurance from May 2016  more than once. 
Understandably, this triggered the complaint as Mrs E was led to believe that shed paid for 
something she hadnt received. Vitality then incorrectly told Mrs E that the health insurance 
cover ended in December 2016  in its final response  letter, an important document which  
should be accurate.  So it was at this point Mrs E was caused distress and inconvenience 
because she tried to claim and was told that she didnt have the cover she thought she had 
in place. 
While financial  businesses have an eight week period to respond to complaints  before they 
can be referred to this service, it isnt necessarily unfair or unreasonable for a business to 
take longer to respond. For example, a complaint might require the retrieval of documents  
from an archive or be particularly complex.  But no reason has been given why Mrs E had to 
wait longer and it isnt clear to me from the evidence available. And Vitality provided 
incorrect information to this service about the address used by it and why, and didnt correct  
the position until very late in the process. 
Im satisfied that Vitalitys  poor service in repeatedly  giving Mrs E incorrect  information, the 
handling of her complaint and use of an old address to send information about changes  to 
her policy was unfair and unreasonable,  and caused  her trouble and upset. Mrs E had to go 
to the effort  of getting her old bank statements due to the incorrect information, and has 
been troubled by Vitalitys  responses. Money  never truly compensates  for trouble and upset, 
but I think more than £100 is fair and reasonable.
It has suggested that as the investigator  thought Vitality hadnt  sent the letters,  the 
compensation he recommended is still appropriate. But Vitality  has continued to act unfairly  
and unreasonably by failing to notice its mistake about Mrs Es address, even when 
expressly asked about it by this service. This has further increased  Mrs Es trouble and 
upset, in addition  to that already suffered due to Vitalitys unfair and unreasonable  actions.  
Taking all the circumstances into account,  I think  £300 is fair and reasonable compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs E accepted my view. Vitality thought that the 
recommended compensation was too high but said that it had no further comments or 
information to put forward.
Ref: DRN45041563In light of the responses, I see no reason to change my provisional decision and confirm  its 
my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Vitality  Health  Limited should pay Mrs E 
£300 compensation for her trouble  and upset caused by its failings. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject  my decision 
before 9 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504156