K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs W took out with a credit  agreement in 1997.  Its 
been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. So, for 
clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Ws credit  agreement. This included  a section on PPI, with a 
box to be crossed to show whether she wanted to take it out. And there is a pre-printed  
cross in the box.
While the cross is pre-printed,  Mrs Ws name, address and phone  number and the details of 
what she is purchasing  are all also pre-printed. So it seems likely there was some discussion 
between Mrs W and FICL before the agreement was printed. And I think  its likely that FICL  
made it clear  to Mrs W in this discussion that she had a choice about the PPI.
Mrs W has questioned whether the cross  was added  after she had signed the agreement.  
But, as the cross appears to have been  printed, I think its likely it was added before the 
agreement was signed. So I think Mrs W couldve just not signed  the agreement  if she didnt 
want the PPI. So I still think  FICL  made it clear to her that she had a choice.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs W any personalised advice about  the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs W. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the likely exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer than Mrs W says she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  she didnt need to rely on any savings 
she had to make her repayments  if she wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve been  
useful to her if something went  wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN48730772my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4873077