K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold her several payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Ms M took out several separate  mortgages  with NBS between  1997 and 2002. With each 
she also took out PPI. The policies cost between £11.15 and £34.65  per month  and would 
have paid out between £193 and £600  a month  if Ms M had made a successful claim.
The policies provided Ms M with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.  
 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms M suggests she wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI on any of the three 
occasions she bought it  thats in 1997, March 2002 and December 2002. I cant be sure 
what was discussed  between her and the bank, but I have looked at the mortgage  
application for each  loan.  They all contain  very similar references to PPI and ask Ms M to 
either decide what cover she wanted  or provide information on cover she might  have bought  
elsewhere. And they each contain some  information  about her responsibilities if she didnt 
buy PPI. Ms M thinks she was told she must have it  and points to a phrase on the forms 
that says NBS strongly recommends buying the PPI. I dont think thats  wording that says 
she had to buy PPI: its a general statement  aimed at all borrowers. And when its combined 
with the other information, I think NBS did enough at each  sale to make  Ms M aware that the 
PPI was optional.  
Overall, despite what Ms M remembers, I think the bank made her aware that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it out.
NBS says it only advised Ms M to take out one of the policies  thats the one sold in March  
2002. In those circumstances it would need  to check that the policy  was suitable for Ms M 
given her particular  circumstances. For the other  two sales,  NBS says it didnt advise Ms M 
 but even so it still needed to give Ms M enough  information for her to make her own 
decision at the time.
This means  that the first and last sales  the non-advised ones  NBS didnt have  to check 
Ms Ms circumstances before selling her the policy. She was eligible for the PPI both times  
Ref: DRN40248962and Ive already  said I think  NBS did enough to make Ms M aware these policies were 
optional. For the first sale, NBS made the cost and potential benefits clear  when  Ms M 
bought it. I cant be sure when NBS told Ms M the cost of the third policy,  but I can see it was 
free for the first three months,  and NBS said it would write  to Ms M to confirm the cost 
towards the end of that period. The PPI was competitively priced and theres no suggestion  it 
didnt cover her mortgage payment.
I dont think these two policies were mis-sold.
NBS says the second policy sold  which ran from about March  to December 2002  was an 
advised sale. So Ive thought about what Ms Ms told us about her circumstances. It 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
-Ms M was eligible for the policy. 
-Ms M says she would have received generous work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to a sickness  or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition  to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer than Ms M would get her full 
salary. Ms M also told us she had substantial savings, although she hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence to support that apart  from about £10,000 of premium  bonds shed 
bought a few years  earlier. But having the policy in place would  mean Ms M could use 
her work-related  benefits and savings  to pay for other expenses. This would probably 
have been all the more important when  the policy was sold given that Ms M was solely 
responsible for repaying the mortgage and had a young child.  So I think  Ms M would 
have had some use for the policy despite  her existing  arrangements.
-Ms M wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Ms M 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-The PPI was free for the first six months, and NBS again  said it would tell Ms M how 
much it would cost after that, as well as the monthly benefit that would be paid if a 
successful claim  was made. So I think Ms M would  have been  aware  how much she 
would be paying for the policy and Ive seen nothing  to suggest it was unaffordable or 
that the benefit was insufficient  to meet  her monthly  mortgage  repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Ms M about each of the PPI sales wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. As Ive already said, Ms M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations  and the policies seem to have been  affordable, I think it unlikely Ms M would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  she 
would still have taken  out the policies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Ref: DRN40248963Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4024896