K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that a car she has on finance  from Lex Autolease  Ltd (Lex) has been 
faulty since it was supplied to her.
background
In November 2017 Mrs T took receipt  of a new car. She financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Lex but after only a couple  of weeks she returned to the dealership and 
complained of a tapping  noise from the engine. The dealer  told her to drive the car for a 
couple of thousand miles to see if the problem bedded in. But it didnt and the car was 
taken in for further  investigation in March  2018 and has subsequently  been back to the 
dealership on several  occasions with a persistent problem. 
Lex has agreed to allow  Mrs T to terminate her finance agreement  and return the car to them 
as they accept that theres a problem,  thats  been  there since inception, and that theyve 
been unable  to fix. They said theyd refund the unused portion of her initial payment and they 
also offered her £300 compensation for the inconvenience shed been  put to. 
But Mrs T didnt  think  Lex had gone far enough. She wanted them to reimburse all the 
instalments shed paid towards her credit  agreement with them and she therefore referred 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Lex had done  enough  either. He noted  that Mrs T had been 
having problems  from the very beginning and shed therefore experienced impaired use 
throughout the period  of the hire. He said the courtesy cars that were  provided were not 
estate cars and she hadnt  been provided with a courtesy car at all in June. He found Mrs Ts 
evidence persuasive  when she explained she was concerned about  driving  the car as she 
said it would  occasionally  shudder and threaten to stall. He thought  it would therefore be fair 
if Lex:
refunded the June  instalment Mrs T had made
refunded 10% of all instalments in recognition of her impaired  use of the car
repay all of the initial payment and
pay Mrs T £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused
But Lex didnt agree. They said there  was no need for Mrs T to be concerned about driving 
the car as she had been provided with assurances it was safe to drive.  They  added  that 
Mrs T appeared to have  completed a fair mileage in the vehicle and they didnt agree her 
usage had been particularly impaired.  And they went on to explain Mrs Ts initial  payment 
was made  to reduce instalments across the life of the contract and as such they insisted 
they should be entitled to return  the unused portion and not the whole amount. So Lex asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN44102512Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs T acquired her car under a hire agreement. The law allows us to look at this complaint 
against the finance provider, Lex, even though some actions may have been completed by 
their agents,  the dealership. 
The relevant  law says that the car should have been of satisfactory  quality when supplied but 
here theres  no dispute that the vehicle was faulty.  Mrs T returned it to the dealership within a 
matter of weeks and Lexs attempts at a repair have  been unsuccessful. I agree with the 
investigator and with Lex that its reasonable, in those circumstances, to allow Mrs T to reject 
the car and terminate  her contract. 
Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask the credit  provider to refund some of 
the instalments  that have been  made  towards the agreement.  The amount of instalments  will 
vary depending on the issues  that have been experienced. Mrs T had driven 6,473 miles 
when the contract  was terminated at the end of August.  This equates  to about 8,500 miles 
per year and I note the contract was for 10,000 miles per year. Lex argue that Mrs T has had 
a fair use of the vehicle but her mileage suggests  she hasnt driven,  or been able to drive it, 
quite as far as she had planned. I therefore think a refund of 10% of Mrs Ts instalments is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Wed also usually ask the business to return the deposit but here Lex has explained  that its 
not a deposit but an initial payment thats  spread across the lease period. I dont see the 
difference between  that and a deposit. A deposit  reduces the capital thats financed and 
therefore reduces  the monthly instalments, in the same way as the initial  payment would. So 
I think, in line with this services usual practice,  it should be returned to Mrs T as part of the 
settlement.
Theres been quite  a bit of disruption for Mrs T to contend with. Ive reviewed the timeline 
provided by the dealership and can see that the car has spent a total of 50 days in the 
service centre over four periods. The longest period was between  May and June when the 
car was in the garage for 29 days.  Mrs T has been  provided with courtesy cars most of the 
time but shes explained that these were  always of an inferior  quality. I therefore think the 
suggestion that Junes monthly instalment is returned is a sensible and proportionate one.
I note that Lex originally offered £300  to compensate Mrs T for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced and I see no reason to dispute this. Mrs T has explained 
that shes found it very stressful and its impacted on the build up to her wedding plans. I can 
understand that this was likely to have been the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this decision and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to:
cancel the credit agreement with nothing further to pay; if they havent already done 
so
refund  the June  instalment Mrs T has made  to her credit agreement  and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the time of payment to the point of settlement
Ref: DRN44102513refunded 10% of all instalments in recognition  of her impaired use of the car and add 
8% simple interest  per annum from the time of payment  to the point of settlement
repay all of the initial  payment and add 8% simple interest per annum  from the time 
of payment to the point of settlement
pay Mrs T £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4410251