K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined  his claim for subsidence under his 
buildings insurance  policy.
When I refer to Allianz Im also referring to any of its appointed representatives. 
background
Mr B made a claim for subsidence on his buildings insurance policy in May 2017.  Allianz  
sent an expert to his house to assess the cracks. Following  this visit the claim was declined.
Allianz said that the cracks had been present at the house for some time, possibly between 
10 and 20 years.  So, it said the cracks  had been  there before the policy with Allianz had 
been incepted  in 2014. It also declined  the claim as it said the damage was caused over 
time. And the policy  excludes damage  to the property  that was caused gradually. 
Mr B was unhappy about this and complained to Allianz. He said that hed had a                
re-mortgage valuation  carried out in 2012  which acknowledged there had been previous 
movement at the house but said the movement wasnt  ongoing.  
Allianz didnt change their decision on the claim so Mr B brought it to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  this complaint should  be upheld. .
Mr B didnt agree so its been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Allianz 
to do anything more.  Ill explain  why.
Mr Bs policy  includes  some  general exclusions that apply  throughout the policy. One of 
these exclusions is damage caused  by:
wear and tear, rusting or corrosion; wet or dry rot or fungus or any gradually operating  
cause.
And it is this exclusion that Allianz  has used to decline Mr Bs claim. There  is no dispute  that 
there is visible cracking and subsidence  at the house. So I have  to decide if Allianz has 
acted fairly  and reasonably in declining the claim by relying on this exclusion. In this case Im 
satisfied that it has.
Allianz has told Mr B that it believes the cracks in his house have been there for some  time 
and before the policy was incepted with it in 2014. Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im 
satisfied its reasonable for Allianz to say that. 
Mr B bought the house in 2004. On the mortgage  valuation survey, the following has been 
noted:
the property has suffered previous movement but I saw no evidence to suggest  this is 
ongoing.
Ref: DRN45989362Aspects of the underground drainage give cause for concern  and you should obtain 
specialist advice.
Im satisfied that this confirms that Mr B had been told there was a previous issue and it was 
suggested that he should check out the drains in light of this.
In 2012 Mr B sought to re-mortgage  the house.  The valuation received at that time also 
mentioned that the house had suffered  previous movement. 
When Mr B submitted his claim  to Allianz in 2017  it sent an independent  expert to the house 
to assess the cracks.  The expert concluded that the cracks  had been  visible  for some  time  
somewhere between 10 and 20 years. Mr B hasnt shown  our service that he did anything to 
investigate the underlying  issue  or repair the cosmetic problems. 
Because of this Allianz declined Mr Bs claim as it said that the cracks  have been present at 
the house since before the policy with Allianz was incepted. It also said that any claim for 
subsidence would be declined anyway due to the policy exclusion that doesnt cover any 
damage caused by a gradually operating cause. 
Mr B was unhappy with this so arranged for his own survey to be undertaken. I know  he 
feels that this supports  his claim that the cracks are recent, but I have to disagree with him 
here. His independent survey  says:
I largely concur with the mortgage valuation  surveyor  that the rear kitchen  projection  and 
bathroom projection of this property appear  to be subsiding  away from the main house. The 
cause of the subsidence is likely to be defective drains affecting the foundations of the 
kitchen and bathroom projections.
Mr B was made  aware  of the drainage  concerns in 2004. Hes told our service that he did 
take action to investigate the problem and his house. And he got the drains looked at about 
six months after he bought the house  .But he isnt able to provide any evidence of this. And 
Mr B hasnt provided any firm evidence to show he dealt with or repaired previous cracking, 
or to show  that the movement is new. Without  any evidence  to support Mr Bs comments Im 
more persuaded  by the surveyors report.  As the cause  of the problems now are likely  to be 
as a result  of defective drainage systems, that was occurring before  the policy began,  Im 
satisfied that Allianz has acted fairly  in declining  Mr Bs claim. Im also satisfied the exclusion 
for gradually  operating cause is a valid one in Mr Bs case  as its most likely the problem 
has been ongoing for several years, and he was made  aware of this.
Because of the above I wont  be asking  Allianz  to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Kevin Parmenter
Ref: DRN45989363ombudsman
Ref: DRN4598936