K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains, with the help of a representative,  that she was mis-sold high risk 
investments by Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd (WFM). This involved the switch 
of her existing personal pension provisions to a newly  set up Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and the subsequent investment in Green Oil Plantations (GOP)  and an investment 
called Physical Gold.
background
Mrs B attended the meetings with WFM  and signed  the paperwork with her husband. But 
because this complaint  relates to Mrs B only, I have referred only to Mrs B and her 
circumstances within this decision.
On 9 August  2011, a client agreement and a fee agreement were signed between  Mrs B and 
WFM. The client agreement classified her as a retail client.  On the same day WFM 
completed a fact find for Mrs B, this recorded that she wanted  to retire at 65.
There were some handwritten notes  on the fact find. These say, amongst other things, that:
As [Mrs Bs husbands first name] and [Mrs Bs first name]  have a whole  array  of 
personal pension  [sic] with no real idea of what they have or where it is they have 
requested advice on [sic] review their existing arrangements to provide some clarity 
as to alternative options.
And
In light of the fragmented nature of their pension plans  they are looking to clarify 
arrangements as well as review their retirement objectives, they are looking to take a 
more speculative approach to maximise growth  potential whilst fully appreciating risk 
to capital [sic] and loss. Attitude to risk discussed in detail especially risk v reward  
and higher risk greater  capacity for loss of capital.
A pension  review report dated  6 March 2012  issued by WFM  says that Mrs B was concerned  
about the performance of her pensions, that she wanted more flexibility  and that she no 
longer had any fixed intention of retiring at the age of 65. So, she required a more flexible 
approach regarding investments and the drawing of funds.
It appears that WFMs adviser, Mr S, then met with Mrs B to discuss the report.  A meeting  
note dated 14 March 2012,  written  by Mr S, says that having discussed the report it was 
agreed that the best option  was to switch to a SIPP with a family arrangement option.
This was to allow full flexibility,  including phased  retirement and drawdown, and to facilitate 
investment in various options including alternative investments. The higher charges 
applicable to the SIPP were discussed but Mr S says, in his report,  that Mrs B was willing to 
accept this for the chance of better performance  and more flexibility.
Mr S worked for WFM in a regulated capacity. He was also the managing director  of 
Stratford Collins Consultants Limited  (SCC), an unregulated business.
A pension  transfer  report was issued by WFM on 22 March 2012,  this set out Mrs Bs 
circumstances, including  her pension provisions, investments and savings. Based on this:
Ref: DRN47152432Mrs B had around £6,000 in investable assets outside of her pensions, this money 
was held in a cash ISA.
Mrs B held three personal  pension plans, the total value of these came to just over 
£13,000.
Mrs B was a member of the teachers superannuation scheme.
This report ended  with the recommendation that Mrs B switch all of her personal pensions  
into a SIPP  to allow full flexibility, including phased retirement and drawdown, and to 
facilitate investment in various options  including alternative investments. It recommended  the 
product provider and type of SIPP but not the underlying investments or a specific  
investment strategy.
On 23 March 2012, as part of the WFM advice process, Mrs B signed  cancel and replace 
forms for each of the policies that she was transferring into the SIPP, these  listed  the 
features and pros and cons  (as described by Mr S) of each of the policies and the merits of 
moving these to a SIPP.
On the same  day Mrs B signed the SIPP  application form; this confirmed that the sale of the 
SIPP was advised  and that WFM provided  this advice. The form also asked if Mrs B 
intended on appointing an investment manager,  yes was ticked  in answer  to this and WFM 
was appointed as the entity providing  this service. Mrs B later elected  to make regular 
contributions to the SIPP.
On 16 May 2012, Mr S, acting for WFM, emailed Mrs B and her husband  saying that:
Pensions all finalised now and in a position to start the investments, how are you 
fixed to meet  up Thursday  24th May [sic] around 7:30pm?
The email  came from a WFM email address and included a WFM  footer. Mrs B and her 
husband responded by email agreeing to the meeting. The GOP application form was signed 
on the day of the meeting.
On 28 May 2012 Mr S wrote to Mrs B, the letter confirmed that she had decided to invest in
GOP and Physical Gold. The letter was not on headed paper but refers to Mr S as the
managing director  without reference  to which business the letter was from. Brochures for the
chosen investments  and an SCC  guide to alternative investments were enclosed  with this
letter.
The investments were then made through the SIPP  as follows:
8 June 2012  Meteor (around  £1,600)
26 June 2012   GOP (around £3,300)
17 August 2012  Physical Gold (around  £600)
A portion of her fund was placed in a deposit  account (around £3,700).  And the remaining
funds were held in the SIPP cash account.
The SIPP provider wrote to WFM confirming that the monies  were  transferred to the GOP 
investment on 26 June 2012.
Ref: DRN47152433In July and August 2012 commission vouchers were issued by a third party  for commission  
to be paid to SCC for the GOP and Physical Gold investments respectively.
Mrs B signed a client agreement with SCC  on 14 April 2014, this set out, amongst other 
things that:
Stratford Collins Consultants Limited  is not regulated by the UK Financial Services  
Authority and is not authorised to provide investment, or legal advice. Before  making 
any investment decisions  we recommend that you seek independent advice  on all of 
the information contained within any documentation provided to you by or on behalf  
of the investment providers.
And
The purpose of the introduction is to provide you with a general outline  and generic 
information in relation  to our range of alternative investments. Nothing contained in 
the documentation provided  or our website  should be taken  as advice or 
endorsement of the investment or its suitability to meet your financial objectives  or 
investment risk profile.
In 2015 Mrs B complained to WFM. That complaint was ultimately escalated to this service. 
Details of the original complaint and submissions to this service were  set out in detail in my 
provisional decision. That decision is attached and forms  part of this decision. For the sake 
of completeness, I have  included  details of the circumstances of the complaint, but I have 
not repeated details  of the original  complaint  submissions here. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said 
that I would consider anything either  party wanted  to add.
Both parties  responded.  
What WFM said: 
The original complaint was only about  the GOP investment and it had nothing  to do 
with that.
Mrs B is happy with the SIPP overall  and the investments other than GOP, it 
continues to meet her needs and objectives whereas a stakeholder  or personal  
pension plan would not. 
Prior to WFMs review  of her pensions she was unhappy with their performance.
Mrs B has continued to employ the same  type investment strategy. Including utilising 
the flexibility available.
A lengthy and detailed  advice process  was followed, which ensured that the advice 
given was suitable, that it knew  its client and that the client  understood the review 
process, including the advice  given.  
The conclusions are not in line with those  reached on other similar  cases. 
Mrs B had no interest in purchasing an annuity,  such options did not fit with her new 
flexible requirements  and would have resulted in tax implications, which she wanted 
to avoid. 
Mrs B was a longstanding member  of the teachers  superannuation scheme, and her 
benefits were worth  a significant amount.
So, the amount  she invested in the SIPP  was essentially play money  for her. 
Mrs Bs pension  has made an overall  gain. She has not suffered a loss. 
Ref: DRN47152434WFM had nothing  to do with GOP investment  and is in no way liable for it  but, the 
SIPP provider ought to have conducted  due diligence on the investments, so the 
complaint should be directed against it. 
Having knowledge  of something  does  not result  in responsibility for that transaction 
(it goes on to explain scenarios that demonstrate this).
The risks and costs involved with the transaction, on which  WFM  advised, were fully 
disclosed and Mrs B was given sufficient time to consider these  before proceeding 
with the transaction. 
Full consideration was given to the investment portfolio but due to the time required 
to transfer the monies and the market conditions at the time it was decided that it 
would not be sensible to choose specific investments  until the funds were in place. 
This was documented in the suitability letter. 
Discussions about Mrs Bs pension and objectives began a long time before the 
introduction of GOP,  so the transaction could not be said to have taken  place for the 
purposes of investing in GOP.
Also, Mrs B was introduced to GOP  and carried  out her own due diligence before the 
meeting on 28 May 2012. 
The SIPP advice and the investment advice should be separated. 
What Mrs Bs representative said: 
She agreed with my findings  as set out in my provisional decision,  in particular, that 
WFMs unsuitable SIPP advice led to her transferring her personal pensions  in order  
to invest in high risk investments such as GOP.
She was never prepared to lose 100% of her investments or incur a significant loss to 
her pension  income. 
Her complaint  stems from the negligent SIPP advice received  from Mr S acting on 
behalf of WFM, which led to her investing in alternative high-risk products such as 
GOP. To say that her original complaint had nothing to do with the SIPP is incorrect. 
At all times she relied on the advice given by Mr S, who she considered to be her 
trusted financial adviser and expected him to act in her best interests. 
WFM was at all times aware  that Mr S held various discussions at Mrs Bs home  
where he advised her to consider  alternative  investments and on the SIPP  into which  
she should transfer her personal pensions. 
It is clear that Mr S of WFM  advised Mrs B on a SIPP which would accept  alternative  
investments such as GOP. 
Shes an ordinary  unsophisticated  retail client and relied wholly  on WFMs advice. 
As previously raised, it is not reasonable for a firm to advise on a SIPP  without taking 
the underlying  investments into consideration. It is clear that Mr S of WFM  introduced  
the concept of alternative investments by promoting  GOP, so Mr S was aware of the 
intended GOP investment. 
The appendices  attached to WFMs response to the provisional  decision illustrate  
that: 
oMrs B was classified as a retail  client and as such did not have a tolerance to 
invest in high risk esoteric investments. 
oMr S of WFM  advised Mrs B on alternative  investments and the SIPP pension 
transfer prior to the subsequent investment in GOP. 
oAt all times Mrs B relied on Mr S of WFM to provide suitable advice.
 
At no time was the distinction  between regulated  and unregulated advice explained 
to her. 
Ref: DRN47152435At all times she believed she was being  advised by Mr S of WFM.
The evidence submitted illustrates that: 
oMr S of WFM  arranged meetings with her using  his WFM address and not via 
his unregulated company. 
oAt all times, Mr S liaised with the SIPP provider and it corresponded with him 
as the acting financial adviser.
oThe SIPP application  form appoints Mr S of WFM as the investment manager 
of the SIPP.  
oThe first time that Mrs B became aware of the involvement if Mr S 
unregulated company  was when she received the letter  dated  24 May 2012  
with details of the unregulated investments made,  which arrived after the 
investment was made.  
Mrs B also referred to part of her witness statement describing her recollections: 
He never told us that GOP was high risk. Had he done so we would not have 
invested in it. I understand that [Mr S name]  is now saying that he did not advise 
however at all times he was our IFA and we looked  to him for advice. 
He introduced us to GOP  (and Gold) and advised us on the investments at our home. 
He said that Gold  was a good investment, although by its very nature, it would rise 
and fall, We discussed Green Oil as being a good  investment, discussing the need  to 
be ethical in our choices in relation to climate  change  etc..
After talking to him for some time, (he usually  spends around 1-2 hours  at our home 
when we meet with him,) and on at least two occasions (one when he gave us the 
literature and one when the investment was made), we were confident that it was a 
safe investment.  
I had no real understanding/experience of alternative or unregulated investments at 
the time.  I still do not really understand what is meant by unregulated or alternative  
investments.
Mrs B and her husband also provided  a response to WFMs comments about  their retirement 
plans:
We never had a conversation as to when we intended to take the annuity payment 
as at the time we were  both secure in our jobs, since  then our circumstances have 
changed as I [Mrs Bs husbands  name]  have now been made redundant, due to this 
fact we have requested  via [Mr S] to withdraw  monies from our [name of SIPP  
provider] SIPP account but as yet we are unable to get a satisfactory  response  as to 
when this withdrawal  will be completed. 
We had spoken  to [Mr S name] saying we would  be estimating our retirement age at 
65 for myself [Mrs Bs husbands name] and 60 for [Mrs Bs name] , we did question  
details within  paperwork we received where  it stated that we intended  to retire at 75 
years of age, this was never our intention and had never said at any time to anyone  
we intended to retire at 75, when we questioned [Mr S name] about this he advised 
this is just a standard age they put on the paperwork (or words  to that effect)  and 
said there was no need  to take notice of it. We accepted his reply as we trusted  him.
Ref: DRN47152436Mrs B and her husband met with WFM in August  2019. WFM then made further  submissions 
in relation to what  it considered to be new material evidence. I shared WFMs  submissions  
with Mrs B and her representative. They also made  further submissions. 
I considered all of these submissions in their entirety  and wrote to Mrs B and WFM. I set out 
a brief summary of the submissions and my findings taking these and everything  else into 
account. 
My summary of the submissions made: 
What WFM has said:
During a meeting with Mr S on 21 August 2019  Mrs B detailed  her plans to 
commence full drawdown of her pension benefits under flexible drawdown.
She intends to use the funds for home  improvements  and  in line with the objectives 
stated at point  of transfer  to have full access to her pension  without the requirement  
to be tied to an annuity.
Mrs B wants to have full access to her pension funds to use these at her discretion 
and without restriction.
Mrs Bs current plans  support the original objectives, as set out at the time of the sale 
of the SIPP.  And, that these could not be met by way of annuity  purchase.
As set out in Mrs Bs complaint submission, her complaint is about the alleged advice 
in respect of the Green Oil investment only, not the SIPP.
At no point during  the complaint process has the client  commented on the transfer 
advice.
Our comments  in relation to Mrs Bs background and her receipt  of regulated  advice 
in respect of her regulated  pension and other  needs from WFM have not been 
disputed.
The circumstances that led to the sale of Green  Oil are vehemently disputed and 
significant evidence  has been  provided  showing  that WFM was not involved in this.
The review of Mrs Bs SIPP providers acceptance of the investment will compensate 
her for the Green Oil investment.
Mrs Bs full and continued use of the flexible benefits she required instead of the 
suggested annuity brings into question  our decision to expand  the scope  of the 
complaint  and, indeed,  the award of compensation based on Mrs B taking an 
annuity, which she did not want and would not have  taken.
We have not taken into account  any of its additional objections, made in response  to 
our findings. In particular:
oMrs B has invested in capital at risk products without FSCS protection.
oMrs Bs speculative  approach to investments  and her objectives  were recorded 
on numerous occasions as were the risks associated with those objectives.
oThe investments  she has made  show that she was not a cautious investor as has 
been claimed.
oDetailed information was provided where  WFM provided regulated advice.
oThe advice was fully documented and in keeping with Mrs Bs stated, 
documented and signed attitude  to risk assessment.
oFact finds, signed terms of business and suitability  letters  were produced in 
accordance with WFMs terms of advice.
oAll of this establishes  a clear process for when WFM  was providing advice.
Ref: DRN47152437oSubstantial evidence has been provided showing that all documents relating to 
Green Oil were issued by Mr S unregulated business.
oAll of the above evidence cannot be ignored.
oWFM was neither aware  nor complicit in the direct investments by Mrs B into 
Green Oil and it has been established that knowledge after the event does not 
infer culpability.
oDespite the fact that the pension transfer  did not form part of Mrs Bs complaint, it 
has evidenced that the transfer  was suitable.
Mrs Bs complaint should be redirected to the SIPP provider  for failing in its duties in 
respect of due diligence.
What Mrs Bs representative has said (broken  down into topics as set out in its 
response):
General points
Mrs B remains of the view that the findings  reached in the provisional decision are 
accurate.
She did not have  a speculative attitude to her pension investments and was not 
knowledgeable in the world of pensions and unregulated investments.
Mr S was recommended by a family member and Mrs B thought  she could trust him 
to act in her best interests.
Mr S knew that Mrs B was not an avid investor  and led her to believe that the course 
of action was in line with her objectives.
The letter prepared by Mr S of WFM is self-serving, misleading  and inaccurate.
Purpose of the meeting
The primary purpose of the meeting was not to discuss Mrs Bs pensions; this came  
up as a secondary concern during discussions.
The topic  of pensions  came up due to Mrs Bs decision to retire.
Mr and Mrs B wanted to access monies from their pensions  in the most tax efficient  
way.
Mrs Bs primary concern was the level of SIPP fees.
Discussion about home improvement, the garden, lifestyle options and holidays 
arose during  general small talk.
Their current financial position was not as outlined in WFMs  submissions, instead:
Mr and Mrs [Mrs Bs surname] have purchased outright a mobile  home (from 
a lump sum from Mrs [Mrs Bs surname] ) and intend to spend their retirement 
making use of it. They  have plans to renovate  the garden, and we are told 
work on this starts this month.  This is being paid for from savings and the [Mr 
and Mrs Bs surname] do not need to draw down  (fully or otherwise) from their 
pensions to pay for this.
The motivation  behind discussing accessing  their pensions was to find a way to stop 
paying the high charges incurred within the SIPP  if Mrs B did withdraw her pension  
this would be put into savings.
Ref: DRN47152438Comments on the file note provided  by WFM
The note is misleading  for a number of reasons;
Mr S does  not mention that the reason Mrs B wanted to release  monies  from her 
SIPP was to avoid  the on-going high charges;
Mr S did not discuss the various available options (annuities, tax-free cash,  flexi 
access drawdown and uncrystallised funds pension lump  sums or combinations 
thereof);
Mrs B did not confirm that her objectives remained as they were when she originally 
transferred or that she did not want to be tied to an annuity;
Mrs B had not previously weighed  up the advantages and disadvantages of annuities 
as the note suggests, she simply acted on Mr S advice.
The note has been produced by WFM to support its position that it is not responsible  
to Mrs B for Mr S negligent advice.
Comments on the suitability report
Again,  this fails to mention that Mrs Bs primary concern was the high SIPP  charges.
The statement: confirming  their plans to commence full drawdown of their pension  
benefits, is wrong in line with the above.
Mrs B was not concerned with funding her lifestyle.
Mrs Bs intentions
Mrs B has never been a speculative/high risk investor;  she has modest pension  
provision accumulated through many  years of hard work. She did not want to put 
these funds at risk.
She followed Mr S advice to invest in high risk investments  and then invested  in 
further investments  to chase the losses.
She is now in a SIPP the charges  of which eat away at any returns  the investments 
may make.
This is not what she would have  done if she had been properly advised of the value 
of and protection afforded by her original  pensions and what  she was being  exposed 
to with regard  to SIPPs and underlying high-risk investments.
In respect of this, Mrs Bs intentions have not changed  she is looking to remove  her 
exposure to the high charges associated  with the SIPP   and, she is not  and never 
has been  interested in high risk gambles  with her pension.
One way of achieving this is to withdraw  her pension from the SIPP  and put it into 
savings.
Comments on WFMs submissions of 18 September 2019
The arguments raised are issues that have previously been dealt with, it is not new 
evidence.
Mrs B did not confirm she wanted to drawdown her full pension and  contrary  to 
what is suggested in Mr S comments  she did not require the money  for major 
purchases (purchasing  a motorhome/garden  redevelopment).
Mrs B does  not believe she told Mr S that she does not want to purchase an annuity 
and does not recall  the topic being  discussed  during the meeting.
Ref: DRN47152439WFMs insistence that Mrs B should  pursue a complaint against the SIPP  provider is 
just another attempt  to shift the blame and avoid  liability for its actions and the losses 
it has caused Mrs B to suffer.
My findings  on the merits of the complaint  taking into account the submissions:
The complaint raised
I have taken into account everything that WFM has said in respect of the complaint 
raised both before  I issued my provisional  decision and since then.
Despite its concerns I remain of the view that my interpretation of the complaint is fair 
and appropriate.
Mrs Bs complaint submissions refer to issues beyond simply the sale of Green Oil.
In any case, I can look beyond the complaint as expressed by Mrs B, our remit is 
inquisitorial.
WFMs responsibility for the advice
There is no dispute that Mrs B received regulated advice  from WFM in respect of her 
pension.
That advice was to transfer her existing pension plans to a SIPP. Apart  from the 
benefits she accrued  in her occupational pension scheme  which did not form part 
of the advice. 
The primary reasons given for this within the suitability report were flexibility and 
access to a wider range  of investments such as structured products and alternative 
investments (the category  within which  GOP falls).
WFM was appointed as investment manager  of the SIPP.
Once the pensions were  transferred  to the SIPP, investments were made in 
structured products and alternative investments.
WFM says that it had no involvement in the sale of the alternative investments and 
that these were sold by Mr S unregulated  company but there  are numerous 
references to alternative investments within the advice for which WFM  has accepted  
responsibility.
So, I think that Mr S did (at least)  have such investments in mind  when undertaking 
activities for which WFM has accepted  responsibility. 
Suitability of the advice WFM has accepted responsibility for
I remain of the view that the advice that WFM has accepted  responsibility  for was 
unsuitable.
Mrs B did not need access to investments  only accessible via a SIPP.
Alternative investments were  not suitable  for Mrs B.
There was no justification  for Mrs B incurring the fees associated with the transfer  
and the SIPP.
There is insufficient evidence that Mrs B required flexibility   or, that she could afford 
to bear the risks involved  with implementing high risk strategy.
Even if Mrs B did want to take a more flexible approach at retirement she did not 
need to transfer  at the time she did and incur higher fees for several years before she 
intended on taking  benefits from her pension.
Ref: DRN471524310In reaching these conclusions I have taken  into account that Mrs B had fairly 
significant pension  provision through her occupational pension  scheme. That does 
not mean that it was suitable for Mrs B to transfer her personal pension  provision to a 
more expensive product, incurring commission upon  transfer  and subsequently make  
high risk investments.  
Impact of recent events
WFM says that it recently  met with Mrs B and that that meeting confirmed that its 
advice was suitable, and that Mrs B would never have agreed  to the course  of action 
I have suggested  would have been  appropriate.
Mrs B says that she only wants to withdraw  the monies from her pension  in full now 
to avoid continuing to pay the high fees being  deducted for the SIPP.
Clearly, there is a serious discrepancy  between what  WFM  has said about the recent  
meeting and what Mrs B has said about  it.
I am not persuaded that I should depart from my findings as set out in my provisional 
decision, I say this because:
oThere is insufficient evidence that Mrs B required flexibility  beyond  that which 
would have been afforded had, what I have said would have been suitable  
advice, been implemented.
oEven if I were to agree that a higher degree of flexibility was required, there was 
still no need to transfer to a SIPP years before Mrs B planned to draw  benefits.
oWhilst Mrs B may now be considering drawing her entire pension, she is now in a 
different position   and, in any case, this does not mean that the advice was 
suitable  or, indeed,  that if suitable advice had been given Mrs B was likely  to 
disregard this. 
Conclusions
We have considered the complaint  fairly, reasonably and in line with our rules.
There is no dispute that WFM is responsible for the advice to Mrs B to transfer her 
pensions to a SIPP.
The advice that WFM has accepted  responsibility for was not suitable.
That advice resulted in Mrs B suffering  the losses that are the subject of this 
complaint and it should compensate  her for that.
Final submissions
Mrs B did not make  any further  submissions. WFM disagreed with my findings and made 
further submissions to support its position.  I have  considered these submissions in their 
entirety, here I have  included a brief summary  of the key points: 
We have expanded the complaint beyond that raised by Mrs B.
There is a lack of consistency between the view reached by the adjudicator  in this 
case and that reached  at decision stage  and, similarly between  the decision  reached 
in this case and that reached in other cases. 
The primary purpose of the meeting was to discuss pension  benefits. 
Mrs B accessing her benefits  in a tax efficient  manner  was the focus  in line with her 
objectives.
Ref: DRN471524311The ongoing SIPP  fees were not raised  as a concern, fees were only mentioned  in 
passing.
The reasons  for Mrs B wanting to access  her benefits were  as stated not because of 
the ongoing fees.
If fees had been the reason for withdrawing funds from the SIPP  then transfer to 
another cheaper product would  have been considered  instead.
The note it prepared  is not misleading. 
All of the options available to Mrs B were discussed in detail.
Mrs B was concerned  about funding her lifestyle, it is inconceivable that an individual  
retiring early in her circumstances would not be. 
It has been evidenced that Mrs B was a speculative investor with pension  provision 
elsewhere, which meant she was not reliant on the funds. 
The process was fully documented, and Mrs B confirmed  on numerous occasions  her 
understanding of the advice and the process.
During the original  advice process Mrs B expressed an interest in alternative 
investments, that is why these are recorded  as possible investments in the suitability 
report and appropriate risk warnings were  given. 
Being  aware  of the clients intentions, commenting on these and giving risk warnings, 
does not result in responsibility for those  actions. 
The advice given  was justified by the recorded objectives, requirements and attitude  
to risk. 
Key facts that are material to the outcome of the complaint are in dispute. 
Extensive documentation  has been provided  to support its position, we should  be 
relying on contemporaneous evidence ahead  of assertions made by the complainant. 
The outcome  reached involves concluding  that Mrs B would have done something 
differently if she had been advised differently, such a strong assertion cannot 
reasonably be reached on the basis of the case file alone and the file does not 
support the conclusion reached. 
Mrs B was in an informed position and was happy to proceed.  This is supported  by 
the evidence provided and the fact that Mrs B complained about the GOP  investment 
alone. 
In addition to the points  WFM raised about the merits of the complaint it also raised  service  
issues, these will be addressed separately. I have proceeded with my consideration of the 
complaint and my decision in the meantime. The service issues  raised do not impact  the 
merits of the complaint, so I am satisfied that I can fairly progress the complaint. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them, for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
Ref: DRN471524312When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
I am required to take into account all of the evidence submitted by both parties when making  
my decision  and I reconsidered this before making  my final decision. It is for me to decide 
how much  weight to attach to a particular piece of evidence, based  on the circumstances of 
the particular case. There is no fixed hierarchy, as WFM  suggests. 
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments. 
I have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed these in turn. As I have 
explained above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision  a 
number of the arguments raised by WFM in response to my provisional decision cover 
issues that I have  already  considered and addressed within that decision, so I have not 
repeated my findings in respect of all of these at length again. 
our interpretation of the complaint 
Mrs Bs original  complaint  focuses  on the investment in GOP   which  is understandable 
given that this is the most obvious loss suffered  but it is not limited  to that in isolation.  
Amongst other things the original letter claims that:
Mr S (WFMs adviser)  could not advise  on the setting up of a SIPP  without 
considering the underlying investment.
Mr S recommended  the SIPP and transfers  for the purpose of investing in both 
standard investments and high-risk alternative investments such as GOP.
It is clear that WFM advised on the merits of taking the money out of Mrs Bs existing 
pensions. It is also clear  that Mr S advice  was sought for the purpose of ensuring 
Mrs Bs retirement was safely planned for. Clearly, GOP  was not suitable for Mrs B.
Mrs Bs complaint to our service also refers to WFMs file note dated 14 March  2012, which
says:
I advised  [Mr Bs first name] and [Mrs Bs first name] that leaving the fund invested
without reviewing them was not an adequate solution as it failed to meet the majority
of the previously discussed requirements  including, diversification, investment
control, good growth potential, ability to invest outside of traditional  funds  including
structured products & alternatives
unrestricted investment  choice that can facilitate investments  in any of the
following stocks & sharesalternative investments etc (within  HMRC  guidelines)
We dismissed staying with the existing providersThe requirementscould only be
achieved by transferring  to a new Pure SIPP Provider
This is by no means every reference  to the wider transaction made in Mrs Bs complaint 
submissions  or to the activities for which WFM has accepted  responsibility.  But I am 
satisfied that this is enough to show that the complaint does relate to more  than just the sale 
of GOP in isolation.  In any case, as I have explained previously, I am not limited to looking at 
the complaint  solely through the lens of how it was expressed by Mrs B. I can take a wider  
view.
WFMs responsibility for the GOP investment
Ref: DRN471524313There is no dispute that WFM advised Mrs B to take out a SIPP  and move  her existing 
personal pension  arrangements  into it. It was appointed as the investment manager  of the 
SIPP and it recommended the regulated investments  held in Mrs Bs SIPP.  WFM denies any 
involvement in the promotion of and investment in GOP  and Physical Gold.
The advice WFM gave  Mrs B to move her existing pension plans into a SIPP  made the 
investments in GOP  and Physical Gold possible. One of the reasons given for taking out a 
SIPP listed  consistently throughout  WFMs  paperwork is access to investments  such  as 
alternatives, amongst other things. WFMs  adviser was the same  person  as WFM  say sold 
the GOP  and Physical Gold. These  were the alternative investments which were made 
within the SIPP as soon as the funds became available.
A lot of WFMs  arguments focus around  the fact that it did not sell the relevant unregulated  
investments and that it therefore cannot be held responsible for these. I disagree. 
WFM advised Mrs B to switch her pensions to a SIPP,  gave advice on the regulated 
investments subsequently  made  and acted  as investment manager, as noted in the SIPP 
application form. WFMs relationship with Mrs B was ongoing and it appears to have held 
ongoing reviews  with her during which the investments held within the SIPP were discussed.
WFMs role meant that it was responsible for the suitability of the switches,  the SIPP and the 
investment strategy  it was taken out to employ. It could not fulfil its obligations without  
considering the overall transaction. Having considered the available  evidence,  I have  found  it 
most likely that the GOP and Physical  Gold investments formed part of this plan. The 
suitability of the SIPP, in this instance,  was inextricably linked to the suitability of the 
investments it was taken  out to make.
Within WFMs  paperwork,  some  of which I have referenced above,  there  are consistent 
mentions of alternative investments.  Including that other pensions would not be suitable as 
these would not allow access to, amongst other things,  alternative investments. WFMs 
adviser sold Mrs B GOP and Physical Gold.  WFM says that he did this in his capacity as a 
director of an unregulated company. I have not seen evidence  of a clear  distinction between 
the activities undertaken by WFM and those undertaken by the unregulated company, other 
than a cover  letter enclosing documentation about the alternative investments, which I do not 
think is sufficient in this instance. In any event,  I am satisfied from the available  evidence  
that WFMs adviser knew Mrs B intended to invest in GOP and Physical Gold or that these 
investments were to be recommended to her, at the time of the advice to move  her existing 
pension plans to the SIPP. 
Suitability of the advice
WFM argue that the advice for which it has accepted responsibility was suitable  in light of 
Mrs Bs objectives. 
Based on what I have seen, I dont  think that Mrs B approached WFM  intent on moving  to a 
SIPP in order to invest in high risk investments (including alternatives) and take advantage 
of phased retirement. WFMs  documentation indicates that Mrs B approached it because she 
had a few small pensions with different providers, and she wanted to work  out what  she had 
where. Through meetings with WFM Mrs Bs objectives changed significantly. 
Ref: DRN471524314I think it is more  likely than not that this change was driven by WFM,  particularly taking into 
account Mrs Bs circumstances. Even if this was driven by Mrs B, WFM  was required to give 
Mrs B suitable advice taking into account  the transaction as a whole   including, the 
switches, the SIPP and the subsequent investments.
I remain of the view that the course of action  recommended was unsuitable, taking into 
account Mrs Bs circumstances, for the reasons I set out in detail in my provisional  decision. 
At the time of the advice Mrs B was almost  55, the personal pension  plans she held were all 
invested in conventional funds and subject, broadly speaking, to what  would likely be 
categorised as a cautious to medium level of risk. She held a relatively modest amount of 
around £6,000  in a cash ISA  the documentation from the time does not indicate  that Mrs B 
was an experienced investor or that she had experience or knowledge  of complex high-risk 
investments. 
The SIPP was subject  to higher charges than Mrs Bs existing  plans. Mrs B could have 
accessed a plan with appropriate  features  and suitable investments at a lower cost  either 
by retaining her existing  plans or switching to a cheaper product such as a stakeholder. 
These issues were exacerbated by the fact a significant proportion of the fund went  into 
unregulated esoteric  investments.
WFM has argued that because Mrs B had substantial occupational  pension scheme benefits 
elsewhere the course of action was not unsuitable. I disagree. Mrs B having occupational 
pension benefits  does not mean that it was suitable  for her to switch  her personal pensions  
to a considerably  more  expensive product that she did not need in order to make  
investments such as GOP. 
Is it fair to award compensation? 
I have not seen enough to conclude that Mrs B was likely to ignore  suitable advice from a 
regulated adviser.  So, I remain  of the view that if WFM had given suitable advice Mrs B 
would not have ended up in a SIPP invested in alternative investments. This means that I 
think it is fair to ask WFM to compensate  Mrs B for her losses  despite the involvement of 
other parties  such as the SIPP provider. 
I have thought carefully about the points WFM raised in response to my provisional decision 
in terms of the complaint made  and its responsibility  for the activities complained  about   
but, I remain of the view that Mrs B has complained about activities  for which WFM  accepted 
responsibility.
I am satisfied that if WFM had acted fairly and reasonably and fulfilled its obligations, by 
giving suitable  advice, this would have  put a stop to the transaction and the business  would  
never have  arrived  at the SIPP providers  door  because of this, I find that WFM should 
compensate Mrs B for the full measure of her losses as set out below.
Consistency
WFM has highlighted a number of cases that it believes contradict the outcome reached in 
this case. We look at each case on its own individual merits  what is fair and reasonable will 
depend on the facts of the individual case - and I am satisfied that my findings are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN471524315As I mentioned above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision, 
within this decision I have  focused on dealing with what I consider to be the key points raised 
in response to my provisional decision.  
Taking into account the above, and my provisional  findings, I remain of the view that Mrs Bs 
complaint should  be upheld,  and it is fair and reasonable for WFM to compensate her for the 
losses she has suffered as a result  of the unsuitable  advice.  In addition to the financial 
losses Mrs B has suffered, I think the unsuitable advice and resultant losses  have caused 
her distress  and inconvenience, WFM should  compensate Mrs B for this as well. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should WFM do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  WFM  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Bs investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
WFM should add interest  as set out below.  
If there is a loss, WFM should pay into Mrs Bs pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If WFM is unable  to pay the total amount  into Mrs Bs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Bs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs B would  
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs B £250 for distress caused by the loss of a significant portion of her
personal pension  provision.
Ref: DRN471524316Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If WFM  deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. WFM should  give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
the monies 
transferred  
into the 
SIPPmixedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where some 
of the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in 
this case. So, the actual  value, of the illiquid investment, should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation.  WFM should  take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying 
a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If WFM is unable  to purchase the investment  the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. WFM may require that Mrs B provides an undertaking to pay 
WFM any amount she may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. WFM will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  WFM should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN471524317Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if WFM totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Future SIPP  fees
If the business had done  what  I have concluded  it ought to have done then I do not think  
there would be a SIPP. It is not fair that Mrs B continues to pay the annual  SIPP  fees if that
SIPP cannot be closed.
Ideally the business would take over the GOP  holding to allow  the SIPP  to be closed.
This is the fairest way of putting Mrs B back in the position she would have  been  in.
However, that is unlikely  to be possible.  To provide  certainty  to all parties, I think  it is fair for 
WFM to pay Mrs B an upfront  lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees 
(calculated using  the most recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for 
the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways they may want  
to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Mrs B with some confidence that she will not be 
subject to further fees.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably  put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean  that Mrs 
B would have  invested 50% of her money  in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind 
of index tracker investment.  Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective  and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wealthmasters Financial Management  Ltd should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mrs B 
in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2020.
Ref: DRN471524318Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs B complains, with the help of a representative, that she was mis-sold high risk investments by 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd (WFM).  This involved the switch of her existing personal 
pension provisions  to a newly set up Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) and the subsequent 
investment in Green Oil Plantations (GOP) and an investment  called Physical Gold.
background
Mrs B attended the meetings with WFM and signed the paperwork  with her husband. Because  this 
complaint relates to Mrs B only, I have referred only to Mrs B and her circumstances  within this 
decision.
On 9 August 2011, a client agreement and a fee agreement were  signed  between  Mrs B and WFM. 
The client agreement classified  her as a retail client.  On the same day WFM completed a fact find for 
Mrs B, this recorded that she wanted to retire  at 65.
There were  some handwritten notes on the fact find. These  say, amongst other things,  that:
Ref: DRN471524319As [Mrs Bs husbands  first name] and [Mrs Bs first name] have a whole array of personal 
pension [sic] with no real idea of what they have or where  it is they have requested advice on 
[sic] review their existing arrangements to provide  some clarity as to alternative options.
And
In light of the fragmented  nature of their pension plans  they are looking to clarify 
arrangements as well as review their retirement objectives, they are looking to take a more 
speculative approach to maximise growth potential whilst fully appreciating risk to capital  [sic] 
and loss. Attitude  to risk discussed in detail especially risk v reward and higher risk greater 
capacity for loss of capital.
A pension  review report dated 6 March 2012 issued  by WFM says that Mrs B was concerned about 
the performance of the her pensions, that she wanted more flexibility and that she no longer had any 
fixed intention of retiring  at the age of 65. So, she required a more flexible  approach regarding  
investments and the drawing  of funds.
It appears that WFMs adviser, Mr S, then met with Mrs B to discuss the report. A meeting note dated 
14 March  2012, written  by Mr S, says that having discussed the report  it was agreed that the best 
option was to switch to a Pure SIPP with a family arrangement option.
This was to allow full flexibility,  including phased retirement and drawdown, and to facilitate 
investment in various options including  alternative investments. The higher charges applicable  to the 
SIPP were  discussed but Mr S says, in his report,  that Mrs B was willing  to accept  this for the chance  
of better performance  and more flexibility.
Mr S worked for WFM in a regulated capacity. He was also the managing  director of Stratford Collins  
Consultants Limited (SCC), an unregulated  business.
A pension  transfer  report was issued by WFM on 22 March 2012,  this set out Mrs Bs circumstances,  
including her pension provisions, investments  and savings.  Based on this:
Mrs B had around £6,000 investable  assets outside  of her pensions,  this money  was held in a 
cash ISA.
Mrs B held three personal pension plans, the total value of these  came to just over £13,000.
Mrs B was a member  of the teachers superannuation  scheme.
This report ended with the recommendation that Mrs B switch all of her personal pensions into a SIPP 
to allow full flexibility,  including phased retirement and drawdown,  and to facilitate investment in 
various options  including alternative investments. It recommended the product provider and type of 
SIPP but not the underlying investments or a specific investment strategy.
On 23 March  2012,  as part of the WFM advice process, Mrs B signed cancel and replace  forms for 
each of the policies that she was transferring into the SIPP, these listed the features and pros and 
cons (as described by Mr S) of each of the policies and the merits  of moving these  to a SIPP.
On the same day Mrs B signed the SIPP application form; this confirmed that the sale of the SIPP  
was advised and that WFM  provided this advice. The form also asked if Mrs B intended  on appointing 
an investment manager,  yes was ticked in answer to this and WFM  was appointed as the entity 
providing this service. Mrs B later elected to make regular contributions to the SIPP.
On 16 May 2012, Mr S, acting for WFM, emailed Mrs B and her husband saying that:
Pensions all finalised now and in a position to start the investments, how are you fixed to
meet up Thursday 24th May [sic] around 7:30pm?
Ref: DRN471524320The email came from a WFM email address and included  a WFM footer. Mrs B and her husband 
responded by email agreeing to the meeting. The GOP application  form was signed  on the day of the 
meeting.
On 28 May 2012 Mr S wrote to Mrs B, the letter confirmed that she had decided to invest  in
GOP and Physical  Gold. The letter was not on headed  paper but refers to Mr S as the
managing director  without  reference to which business the letter was from. Brochures  for the
chosen investments and an SCC guide to alternative investments  were enclosed with this
letter.
The investments were  then made through the SIPP as follows:
8 June 2012  Meteor (around £1,600)
26 June 2012  GOP  (around £3,300)
17 August  2012  Physical Gold (around £600)
A portion  of her fund was placed in a deposit  account (around  £3,700). And the remaining
funds were held in the SIPP cash  account.
The SIPP provider wrote  to WFM confirming that the monies were  transferred to the GOP investment 
on 26 June 2012.
In July and August  2012 commission vouchers  were issued by a third party for commission to be paid 
to SCC  for the GOP and Physical Gold investments respectively.
Mrs B signed a client agreement with SCC  on 14 April 2014, this set out, amongst other things that:
Stratford Collins Consultants Limited is not regulated by the UK Financial Services Authority 
and is not authorised to provide investment, or legal advice.  Before making any investment 
decisions we recommend  that you seek independent advice on all of the information  
contained within any documentation provided to you by or on behalf of the investment 
providers.
And
The purpose of the introduction is to provide you with a general outline  and generic 
information in relation  to our range of alternative investments. Nothing contained in the 
documentation provided or our website should be taken as advice  or endorsement of the 
investment or its suitability to meet your financial  objectives or investment risk profile.
In 2015 Mrs B complained  to WFM. The submissions were extensive. Briefly,  she complained that:
It was her understanding that she was dealing  with the adviser as a representative of WFM  at 
all times  but now WFM  is saying  that GOP was sold by SCC.
The distinction between  Mr S acting in his capacity as a representative  of WFM  and him 
acting in his capacity  as managing director of SCC  was not explained  to her. This created a 
clear conflict  of interests.
She trusted the adviser to act in her best interests and not to put her monies into high-risk 
alternative investments.
Mr S, in his capacity  as a representative of WFM, recommended that she move her pensions 
to a SIPP  and invest in alternative investments, such as GOP.
Mr S did not, at any point, explain to her that GOP  was an unsuitable high-risk investment.
Ref: DRN471524321It was not possible for WFM to advise her on the setting up of a SIPP without considering the 
underlying investment.
Suggesting that WFM had no involvement  in the GOP  transaction  is an attempt to game the 
system.
GOP  was a high-risk product that was not suitable for her.
The advice was not in line with COBS 2.1.1, COBS 9.2.1, COBS  9.2.2, COBS 10.3 and 
COBS 11.
The advice was sought for the purposes of ensuring  that Mrs Bs retirement was safely  
planned for and the advice  did not fulfil this purpose.
It had always been Mrs Bs intention to retire at 60. And, now she is not able to do so, as a 
result of the unsuitable advice.
WFM responded saying that it had no involvement in the sale of the GOP  and Physical Gold  
investments. Mr S was interviewed as part of WFMs investigation and he confirmed that Mrs B was 
introduced to these investments by SCC. Because of this, WFM believes  that the complaint had been 
misdirected and ought  to be referred to SCC. The response includes a statement from Mr S, in 
summary, he says that:
SCC has not carried on any regulated  activities since 2008.
Mrs B was aware of the role of SCC and had been a client  of it since 2011, during this time 
she had used its services for guidance about Wills, Trusts and Powers of Attorney.
The assertion that Mrs B is still having to work  because of the failed  investments is wrong  as 
she always  intended retire at her normal retirement age. And, in any case, she would need to 
work because  she and her husband had a repayment mortgage.
Mrs B built up a significant amount of investment knowledge and experience.
He did not recommend  the alternative investments in his capacity as an adviser for WFM, 
SCC introduced Mrs B to them  but no recommendation was given.
There was a clear  divide  between the regulated advice given to Mrs B and the nonregulated 
activities undertaken by SCC. Meetings were split into two parts, regulated matters were  
discussed first and then SCC matters were dealt with and there was a clear  distinction  
between the two.
No conflict of interests was created  as the services  offered by SCC were not offered by WFM.
The funds invested represented a small  portion of Mrs Bs overall  net asset value.
Full consideration was given to the underlying investments that were considered at the time of 
setting up the SIPP in 2012 and risk warnings were given.  Mr S has also refuted Mrs Bs 
claims that his actions were  in breach of the regulators rules  listed above.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs B referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld.  She said that:
The complaint had not been  misdirected,  WFM did give Mrs B advice and its adviser dealt 
with her throughout the transaction complained about.
Ref: DRN471524322The relevant rules  required WFM to give Mrs B suitable advice taking into account her 
knowledge, experience,  financial situation and objectives.  And, to gather such information as 
necessary to establish that Mrs B could bear any related risks consistent  with her objectives  
and that she understood the risks involved.
WFM was aware of Mrs Bs intention  to invest in GOP  and, as such, in recommending a 
SIPP to facilitate this investment, it was obliged to consider the suitability of that investment. 
The proportion  invested in GOP was too high taking into account Mrs Bs circumstances.
WFM responded disagreeing with the adjudicator, in summary, it said that:
It is not in dispute that WFM did provide  Mrs B with regulated advice in relation to her 
regulated pension. But, the circumstances  around her introduction to GOP are very much  in 
dispute.
Mrs B has misdirected her complaint against WFM. The complaint should  be directed  at SCC, 
as confirmed by Mr S.
Mrs B was not introduced to GOP by WFM nor did it facilitate the investment or process the 
application forms.
WFM has no agency or other arrangement with any of the parties  involved in the GOP 
investment.
SCC is a separate legal entity.
Mr S has been a self-employed  adviser  for WFM since 2008  and it is only in this capacity that 
he was authorised to carry out regulated activities.
If Mr S gave advice in relation to GOP in his capacity as an adviser for WFM,  he would have 
been acting outside the terms of his employment.
WFM has provided evidence in support  of all of the above  assertions.
WFM requested that if we do not agree that the complaint  has been misdirected, it should be afforded 
the opportunity to provide a substantive response. This would involve it asking SCC to put together a 
substantive response for it to put forward. It has not been afforded this opportunity. WFM  said that the 
adjudicator failed to properly consider these points and it referenced a number of other cases  
reviewed by our service  where different outcomes were reached.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to our adjudicators view WFM said the complaint had been incorrectly  directed at it as 
it did not advise Mrs B to invest  in GOP or any other unregulated investment. Mrs B has asked us to 
consider a complaint  against  WFM. We have the jurisdiction  to look at a complaint against WFM. 
So whether or not WFM is responsible for what has been complained about is a matter for me to 
decide on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And, when doing  this, I am 
not limited to simply answering  the points  of complaint  I can take a wider view.
Ref: DRN471524323Having carefully considered the available evidence, I think that the switches to the SIPP  and the 
investments subsequently made by Mrs B within her SIPP were unsuitable. And I think  it is fair and 
reasonable to hold WFM  responsible for this transaction as a whole. Ill explain  why.
Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser,  met with Mrs B on a number of occasions and had discussions with 
her about her pensions. As part of this, WFM reviewed Mrs Bs circumstances. So it took steps to 
know its customer.
Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser,  recommended that Mrs B switch  all of her personal pension plans to a 
family SIPP, citing the flexibility this would afford her. WFM was nominated to be the investment 
manager of the SIPP after it was established, and the funds were  received from Mrs Bs existing 
pensions. Following  this, Mr S met with Mrs B to discuss the investments to be made. This meeting 
was arranged via Mr S WFM email address.
I think  its likely that Mr S spoke to Mrs B about alternative investments in general and more 
specifically about GOP and Physical Gold before that meeting. Or at least that Mr S had those  
investments in mind when recommending  the switches to the SIPP.  I think it is unlikely that Mrs B 
agreed to make the switches, and that Mr S (acting  as WFMs adviser) recommended those switches  
without any investment in mind.
I say this because:
There are a number of references to alternative investments in the pension reports  and the 
suitability letter. This suggests such investments were  in mind at the time of the advice to 
switch, and had been discussed.
Mrs B was classified by Mr S as having  a speculative attitude to risk this and the reports  
produced by WFM  suggest that Mr S had discussed making  speculative investments with 
her whilst discussing the switches. Ive not seen sufficient  evidence to show  Mrs B arrived at 
this attitude to risk independently.
Mr S acted for WFM  and SCC.  So Mr S was one man with two hats, so to speak. He must 
therefore have known his later intentions when giving the advice to switch to the SIPP.  I 
cannot accept that, when he was giving  advice to switch  to the SIPP as WFMs adviser, it did 
not enter Mr S thinking  that he would later introduce Mrs B to speculative  alternative 
investments.
Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser,  arranged  the meeting to discuss the investments Mrs B 
made. This suggests no clear separation  between  Mr S activities as WFMs adviser  and 
those for SCC.
WFM has accepted responsibly for the regulated  investment that Mr S recommended 
(Meteor).
WFM, and Mr S acting  as WFMs adviser, were  involved in the switches to the SIPP right up 
until the point the investments were made.
So the evidence  does not support there being the clear separation between the switches to the SIPP 
and the investments which  WFM argues exists. It is clear to me that the switches to the SIPP were 
always intended to facilitate  the unregulated investments Mrs B later made. That was the purpose of 
the switches.  There was no demarcation. So the switch and the investments  were coextensive and 
intrinsically linked.
WFM had to know its client, act in her best interests and give suitable  advice. I dont think  that it could 
fulfil these  duties without considering the overall  transaction. So Mr S, when  acting for WFM,  ought to 
have considered the suitability of the switches to the SIPP and the intended investments when giving 
advice to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN471524324This view is reflected by an alert issued  by the FCA in 2013 called  Advising on pension transfers with 
a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP.
This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
I acknowledge that this alert came after WFMs recommendation to Mrs B but I dont think this means 
that it is not relevant to this complaint. I say this because the alert was a reminder of existing 
obligations under the COBS rules  it did not introduce a new set of obligations.
As mentioned,  the available evidence shows WFM did take steps to know its client.  Mr S, acting as 
WFMs adviser, gathered  most  of the relevant  details about Mrs Bs personal and financial 
circumstances. So Mr S was in a position  to be able to give suitable advice. But, taking into account  
all I have  said above, I do not think  that Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser, gave suitable  advice. In my 
view, the advice to switch to a SIPP to facilitate the investments later made was not suitable. I say this 
because:
There is insufficient justification for the switches to the SIPP. The switches  came at a 
significant cost to Mrs B and led to her incurring  higher ongoing  charges. Mrs B could  have 
accessed funds that were  suitable for her through cheaper  products. Or she could have  
explored making fund switches in her existing  schemes.
I cannot agree  that Mrs B was a speculative investor. Whilst I acknowledge  that this 
assessment was based on a risk questionnaire that Mrs B signed, I dont think it is reasonable 
to use this, in isolation, to justify the recommendation. Due consideration needed  to be given 
to her overall circumstances, investment  experience and capacity  for loss.
Based on the information gathered  at the time of the advice Mrs B appears to have had less 
than £6,000 in investable assets outside of her pensions  and all of these  were held in a cash 
ISA. The funds  held within  her personal  pensions were in cautious to medium risk funds. In 
addition to this, Mrs B was within  10 years of her normal  retirement age.
WFM should therefore have concluded that Mrs B could not reasonably be considered a 
speculative investor. Had it acted  properly, it should have told Mrs B her circumstances  meant 
she should take a much lower level of risk when  investing  her personal pensions.
For the reasons  given,  Mr S, whilst  acting  as WFMs adviser,  ought to have considered the suitability  
of the intended investments  when advising  on the switches to the SIPP. The unregulated  investments 
that Mrs B invested in were  wholly unsuitable for her in light of her circumstances. She was exposed 
to a significant risk of capital loss and illiquidity when she should not have been.  So, Mr S, whilst 
acting as WFMs adviser, ought to have concluded that switches to a SIPP to facilitate those  
investments were not suitable.
Ref: DRN471524325I have taken into account that Mr S worked as a self-employed adviser for WFM. The terms of his 
employment were set out in an agreement  between Mr S and WFM. WFM might argue that it is not 
responsible for the investments as it did not allow Mr S to deal with them whilst  acting for it.
I note that WFM has said that the agreement did not allow Mr S to give advice on/sell unregulated  
investments such as GOP and Physical Gold. And there is no evidence that Mr S was given approval 
from WFM to recommend them in this case. But it did allow SIPP advice and there is no dispute about  
that being  approved. I have found  that the advice to go into a SIPP was unsuitable, for the reasons 
set out above. And if not for the unsuitable SIPP advice SCC (if it did introduce Mrs B to GOP  and 
Physical Gold)  would not have been able to make that introduction.
Suitable advice would have  been for Mrs B to remain in her existing schemes  or switch to a scheme  
that offered a wider  range of suitable investments, on the basis  of an attitude  to risk that fairly 
reflected Mrs Bs circumstances  such  as a stakeholder plan.  Neither of these options would have 
allowed the relevant unregulated investments  to be made. So, I still think it is fair for WFM  to be held 
responsible for the investment loss in full.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs B should  be put as closely as possible  into the position  she would  probably now be 
in if she had been given  suitable advice. 
I think  Mrs B would have invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mrs Bs circumstances 
and objectives when she invested.
What should WFM do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly,  WFM  must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs Bs investment  with that of the benchmark  shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
WFM should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, WFM should pay into Mrs Bs pension plan to increase  its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If WFM is unable to pay the compensation  into Mrs Bs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Bs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs B would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay five years worth  of future fees owed by Mrs B to the SIPP.
Pay Mrs B £250 for the distress caused by the loss of a significant  portion  of her personal 
pension provision.
Ref: DRN471524326Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If WFM deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. WFM  should give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
the monies 
transferred 
into the 
SIPPmixedfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  some of the 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open market) as in this case. So, the 
actual value, of the illiquid investment, should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  
WFM should take ownership of the illiquid  investment  by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  paid as I 
set out above.
If WFM is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. WFM may require that Mrs B provides an undertaking to pay WFM any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan. WFM will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, WFM  should use the 
monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England.  The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mrs B paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value  calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if WFM  totals  all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Future SIPP  fees
Ref: DRN471524327If the business  had done what I have  concluded  it ought to have done then I do not think  there would 
be a SIPP. It is not fair that Mrs B continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if that SIPP cannot be 
closed.
Ideally the business  would take over the GOP  holding  to allow the new SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mrs B back in the position she would have been in. However, third parties  are 
involved, and we do not have the power to tell them what to do. To provide certainty  to all parties, I 
think it is fair that the business pay Mrs B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP 
fees (calculated using the most recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed. There are a number of ways  they may want  to seek to 
achieve that. It will also provide Mrs B with some  confidence that she will not be subject  to further 
fees.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth  with a small  risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
I consider that Mrs Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain  her investment  objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does  not mean  that Mrs B would  have invested 50% 
of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mrs B could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude. 
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Wealthmasters Financial  Management  Ltd 
should pay the amount  calculated as set out above. 
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4715243