K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money  she lost after falling victim to 
a scam.
background
In December 2018 Ms S was called by someone  posing as her phone  and internet provider, 
who we now know was a fraudster, and was persuaded to send money to a third partys 
account held with another bank. Lloyds blocked the transaction  initially but released  it after a 
phone call with Ms S, in which she confirmed  it was a genuine transaction intended to pay 
for a family holiday
Ms S subsequently realised shes been scammed and reported this to Lloyds. They 
contacted the recipient bank and were able to recover  almost  half of the amount Ms S had 
transferred.
Ms S thought Lloyds should refund the remaining money, but the bank said it had done 
enough to try and prevent her being  the victim of fraud. Ms S disagreed and asked  us to look 
into the complaint.  But our investigator  also thought the bank had done enough.
Ms S remained unhappy, so the complaint has been referred  to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   When  making that decision, Im required 
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And Ive 
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
But thats not the end of the story:  
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to, among other  things,  look to identify  and help prevent transactions   
particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result 
of a scam  (something  also recognised  by the British Standards  Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   Code of 
Ref: DRN49523562Practice, which a number  of banks and trade associations  were involved in the development 
of). 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment. Or, in some cases, decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  fraud 
and scams  in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average  
customer.
Theres no dispute in this case that Ms S has been the victim of fraud, but that doesnt 
automatically mean Lloyds should compensate her for the money she lost. I need  to decide 
whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer  to leave Ms Ss account. 
And, if so, if it then took appropriate steps to try to recover the money from the recipient bank 
once Ms S reported  the fraud.
Ms S authorised the transfer and Lloyds did consider  it unusual  and/or out of character given 
the previous activity on her account.  So it blocked the payment and made attempts to 
contact Ms S. Ms S ended up calling  Lloyds and spoke with someone in their fraud  team 
about the transaction. Ive listened to a recording of that call  Ms S explained at the start 
that shed tried to make  the payment to pay for a family holiday but had been told to call 
them. And I note the bank:
Asked a number of questions about the transfer.  This included some detail about  what  
the money was for, ascertaining how Ms S knew, and if she trusted, the recipient and 
how the recipients  bank account  details  were provided.
Confirmed that £10,000 had been  moved  from Ms Ss savings account into her current 
account. 
Warned Ms S about the types  of scams being perpetrated, including  that fraudsters were 
calling customers pretending to be from phone  and internet  providers (specifically  
mentioning the name of Ms Ss own provider)  and persuading  people to move  money  
and/or give access to their online banking. 
Checked no-one had told her not to tell the bank about the true nature of the payment, 
as that was a tactic  used by fraudsters. Also that fraudsters sometimes told their victims  
that their account was at risk and there was a fraudster working in the bank so they 
needed to move  their money.
Checked that Ms S wasnt on the phone  with anyone else while speaking with the bank,  
and that there was no-one else in the background telling  her what to do.
No-one had contacted her and told her to move the money other  than for the reasons 
shed already disclosed (to pay for a family holiday)
Warned Ms S that the bank would unlikely be able to get the money back once it was 
sent and checked that it was a genuine payment.
I think the banks  employee took their time asking Ms S questions  and giving appropriate  
information and warnings about  potential  scams.  I appreciate  Ms S was acting under the 
spell of a clever fraudster. But some of what the bank said mirrored  or contradicted  the story 
the fraudster had told her. For example, Ms S said the fraudster told her they would put 
£10,000 into her current  account but the bank told her this money had been moved across 
from her savings account. Yet none  of what the bank said seems  to have caused Ms S to 
doubt what the fraudster had told her. She gave plausible  and persuasive explanations  in 
Ref: DRN49523563response to the banks  questions, and I dont think she showed any obvious  signs  of being 
under duress, such that the bank  should have probed further than it did.
In the circumstances, I think the bank made  reasonable efforts  to check the transaction  was 
genuine rather than Ms S falling victim to a scam.   So I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by 
allowing the payment to be made.
I also think the bank  acted promptly to try and recover the money once Ms S reported the 
scam.  Some  of the money had already been  spent, but the banks actions led to almost half 
of the money  being returned  to Ms S.
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair to tell Lloyds to pay the difference between the amount 
Ms S transferred out of her account  and the amount it was subsequently able to recover 
from the recipient  bank.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4952356