K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) alongside  a credit card.
background
In 2003 Miss W applied for and took out a credit  card online. At the same  time PPI was 
added to protect the card payments in the event Miss W couldnt work through accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Miss W says she was unaware of PPI, so it must  have been 
added without her knowledge.
The policy cost 74 pence for every  £100 Miss W owed on the card.  And it would pay a 
monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding  card balance for up to 12 months.
Miss Ws credit card account  closed in 2004.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  it likely Miss W chose to 
take out PPI. And there was nothing to suggest  it was fundamentally wrong for her, so he 
didnt think shed have  changed her mind  about taking it out if Canada Square had done the 
things it was supposed to.
Miss W disagrees,  so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Miss Ws complaint.
Ive decided Miss W hasnt lost out as a result of taking  out PPI because:
I think Canada Square made  it clear  that Miss W had a choice about PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  now remember  doing so.
Canada Square  has sent us an example screenshot of the internet  page about PPI it 
says Miss W would most likely have seen when  she applied  for her credit card. These 
are screenshots weve seen before  for sales around this time and Ive not seen enough  
to persuade me that Miss W saw something different during her application. The 
screenshot shows Miss W would have  been  presented with two options for PPI  Yes to 
take out the cover and No to decline it  which she had to choose from by clicking on 
the appropriate radio button on the screen  to proceed with her credit card application. 
Canada Square  has also provided Miss Ws internet application record, which  suggests  
she answered Yes to wanting  PPI in her application.
So overall and having carefully considered  what both parties have said, I think  the 
evidence shows Miss W was most  likely given the option to take out PPI and that she 
chose to take it out by clicking on the relevant radio  button during her online credit  card 
application.
Ref: DRN47788702Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W  both parties agree  this was the 
case and Ive not seen anything to suggest  otherwise. So it didnt have to check  if it was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed 
to decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. For example its not clear  to me from the screenshot that Canada 
Square clearly and fairly  highlighted  the significant exclusions  and limitations  of cover or 
detailed the full cost information. But Miss W chose to take out the PPI  albeit she likely 
did so based on incomplete information - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And based on what Ive seen of Miss Ws circumstances at the time  she was employed  
and in good health - it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the significant 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, so it would have been useful to her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking it out. 
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said - including what shes said about having 
some savings and that she was entitled to sick pay. But these points  dont change  my 
decision. While Miss W could  have  used her existing means  for a time, the PPI would have 
paid out alongside these  and for longer if necessary. It also had the potential to clear  the 
card balance.
Miss W was aware she had these means  at the time, yet she still chose to take out PPI. So I 
think she recognised  she had a need  for cover  and wanted the benefit of protecting her card 
payments in the event something  happened  and she found herself unable to work. I dont 
think being given  the missing information about  the cover would have altered that view.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Miss W has not suffered loss as a result 
of taking out PPI with her Canada Square  credit card, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4778870