K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC increased the limit on his credit card 
when they shouldnt have. He believes that they lent to him irresponsibly. 
He would like to be returned to the position that he was in before the credit increases. He 
wants a refund of the charges and fees applied  for his increased limit. He also wants to 
ensure that his credit file hasnt been negatively affected by the increase. 
background
In June 2017, Mr W opened a Tesco credit card account with a credit limit of £250. 
Tesco say that Mr W then asked  for a credit limit increase.  In September  2017,  they wrote  to 
Mr W saying that his limit would be increased  to £600. 
Tesco wrote  to him again in December 2017  saying that they would increase his limit to 
£900 in January 2018. But, before the increase took effect, Tesco  wrote  to Mr W saying that 
his limit wouldnt be increased and that it would remain at £600.  
Mr W says that Tesco  increased his credit limit again in December 2018 to take effect  in 
January 2019  even  though nothing had changed in his situation since  the last credit limit 
increase was taken  away. 
Although Mr W used  his increased  credit  limit, he said that it had made his financial position  
worse. He said that Tesco shouldnt have increased his credit  limit. He raised a complaint 
with them.
Tesco wrote  their final response letter in March 2019. They  said that they had considered 
Mr Ws finances properly before increasing  his credit limits. They didnt accept that they had 
done anything  wrong. But, as a gesture of goodwill, they refunded  a £12.00  over limit fee, 
and they placed a one month waiver  to avoid a further over limit fee.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome so he came to us. 
Our investigator found that Tesco had fairly considered Mr Ws finances before they 
increased his credit  limit. 
Mr W didnt agree with this decision so the complaint has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr W wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that Tesco has acted 
irresponsibly in increasing his credit limit twice. I will explain  why. 
Mr W requested  the increases both in September 2017 and December  2017.  I do accept that 
it was still for Tesco to ensure that they thought Mr W could afford  these credit  increases. 
From what  I have  seen of their business file, I think that they did. 
Ref: DRN45401842Ive considered whether Tesco shouldve considered Mr Ws credit file before offering the 
increases. I dont think that this was necessary. I can see that Tesco  carried  out other  
checks to ensure that the increases were affordable for Mr W. In particular, they looked at 
activity on the account  for three  months  prior to the increases. It is clear to me that they took 
this seriously as this is their response  to why the second increase of £900 was withdrawn 
and why the credit was increased to £900  a year later:
The customer didn't receive the increase  in January 2018 as his utilisation went 
above 95% before  the Credit Limit Increase (CLI) went live. When  the most recent CLI 
was offered, we checked all bureau  information at both Experian and Call Credit, 
ensured that the customer could  afford  the increase in payments, ensured that his 
payment behaviour in the previous  3 months  was more  than double  his interest  and 
fees and his internal  score was above  a certain  value.
I think that Tesco properly  considered  the credit increases  and behaved responsibly in 
allowing them.  
Also, Mr W always had the opportunity of turning down the increases if he didnt want them.  
So, I dont think that Tesco  has behaved  unfairly or unreasonably. I think  that their offer to 
refund a £12.00 over limit fee and to place a one month waiver to avoid a further over limit 
fee as a gesture of goodwill is fair and reasonable. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr W wanted. I hope  that Ive clearly explained the 
reasons for my decision. 
my final decision
I dont think that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC has behaved irresponsibly in granting Mr W 
increases to his credit  limit. So, I dont require them to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4540184