K822xcomplaint
Mrs K, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr K, is unhappy with the increases in premiums  on 
Mr Ks home insurance with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background 
Mr Ks insurance policy with RSA started a very long time ago and covered a Grade II listed  
building. In 2006, Mr Ks policy cost £852 for the year.  The next year,  2007,  Mr Ks insurance  
cost £894. 
Mr K was elderly, and by 2018 Mrs K had become responsible for his financial affairs,  after 
which he sadly passed away.  In 2018, the renewal quote was for £1,716. Mrs K thought  this 
was exorbitant,  so contacted RSA to discuss the price.
Mrs K says RSA suggested  she reduce the sums  insured in order  to pay less and search for 
alternative quotes online. But Mrs K didnt want to risk the property being  underinsured, and 
getting quotes online was not possible due to the propertys  listed status.
Mrs K was unhappy with the service RSA provided, having to chase things  up often before 
things progressed. And she felt that RSAs final response to the complaint was rushed and 
inadequate. Overall,  she felt that RSA had taken advantage of an elderly  customer to 
increase the price and didnt do enough to help Mr K or to respond to the complaint.
Following our investigators involvement,  and in light of Mr Ks potential vulnerability towards 
the end of his life and the dissatisfaction Mrs K has expressed, RSA made an offer of £500 
as a gesture of goodwill.  Our investigator  thought  this was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mrs K disagreed. She felt a number  of the annual  increases were  substantial.  And that RSA 
shouldve taken more  care in contacting Mr K about the insurance, given his age, rather  than 
just sending him renewal  letters.  Shes unhappy that we cant share information with her 
about how RSA set the price of the policy. And she reiterated that she felt she was given 
incompetent advice and faced a lack of interest when she raised the issue  with RSA and 
received a poor response to the complaint. 
Because our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided that RSAs 
offer of settlement is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint. 
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr K fairly 
throughout the period  he held its insurance  policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Mr K fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair. And, in this case, whether I think what RSA has offered  is fair.
Ref: DRN40471882An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost.
Mr K contacted RSA in 2006 to discuss the policy cover, and in 2010  to request some 
documents. But theres nothing that suggests he was engaging with the cost of the policy.  
So, I think RSA shouldve  realised this. 
However, RSA has given us a lot of information about how it decided how much to charge 
Mr K for his policy. Im afraid I cant share this as its commercially  sensitive, but I would like 
to assure Mrs K that Ive carefully  considered  what RSA has provided, as well as what  she 
has said.
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Mr Ks premiums  unfairly.  It has 
shown there  were changes in its rates,  its view of the risk of insuring Mr Ks house  and its 
understanding of future likely claims. These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase the 
premium. Theres  nothing  to suggest RSA was charging Mr K more for his insurance, just 
because hed had his policy with it for a long time.
I know that Mrs K found insurance for the property much cheaper elsewhere. So, I can 
understand why this would make her think that Mr K was treated unfairly  by RSA. But 
insurers often include discounts  in order to obtain new customers.  That means that a new 
customer will often  be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy.  And 
insurance policies  are not all the same  they have different  levels of cover, excesses and 
differing terms and conditions that can affect  the price charged.  And each  insurers costs 
may vary depending on many things. So, just because the policy with RSA cost a lot more 
than the new policy that Mrs K found,  that doesnt  mean the amount charged by RSA was 
unfair.
Looking at how RSA handled Mrs Ks enquiries  and complaint,  it seems  it couldve done 
more to show it was taking the matter seriously.  And to give suggestions that were  more 
relevant to a Grade II listed building, given that RSAs representatives shouldve  been aware 
of what sort of property  was being discussed. 
I note that RSAs final response  letter  was issued outside of the eight weeks  allowed and 
didnt refer to the pricing  teams  review,  which Mrs K was expecting to be given information  
about. But I can see that the final response letter was issued after that review had been  
completed and reflected  the results of that review   that the price had been set correctly.  So, 
Ive taken account of these  issues  when  deciding whether RSAs offer is fair and reasonable. 
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These didnt exist when Mr K took out his policy with RSA.  And, even if they had, 
the onus would still have been  on Mr K to take action. 
I appreciate that Mr K was elderly and had some health issues  which meant  he couldnt have 
shopped around himself.  But, other than his age, RSA was not aware of any reason why 
Mr K would not have  been able to take action on receipt of the renewal notices. Having  said 
Ref: DRN40471883this, RSA has made an offer of £500  in light of what it now knows.  Overall,  given everything 
that happened, I think that is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  this complaint. So, Im not 
telling RSA to do any more than what it has already offered to do.
my final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs  offer of settlement is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint. If it hasnt already done  so, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
should pay the estate of Mr K £500. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K, on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr K, to accept or reject my decision before  22 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4047188