K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains Zenith Insurance  plc sent her to a garage which couldnt repair  her car 
when she claimed  on her mechanical breakdown  insurance. 
background
Mrs R had a fault with her car, so she contacted Zenith to claim on her policy.  Zenith let her 
know the details  of a garage she could take her car to. Mrs R then took the day off work to 
take her car to be repaired.  When she got to the garage they said they couldnt  fix the fault 
with Mrs Rs car. 
Mrs R called Zenith who found a different garage  for Mrs R, but she said this was too far 
away. Because of this Zenith tried to locate another garage closer to where Mrs R lived. 
During the call Mrs R complained, she said Zenith should never have  sent her to a garage 
that cant repair her car and that shed wasted  a day off work trying to sort this out. 
Zenith looked into Mrs Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. They said sometimes a specialist 
repairer is needed and this isnt always obvious when the fault is first reported. Mrs R 
disagreed, she said during  a call shed been  told she should  never  have been  sent to the 
first garage. Mrs R referred her complaint here. She also said Zenith hadnt properly 
answered her complaint  and had sent her their response to someone  elses  complaint. 
Our Investigator  reviewed Mrs Rs complaint and didnt recommend it to be upheld. She 
found that Mrs R had been sent the response  to someone elses complaint in error, but 
Zenith had sent a second response which had addressed Mrs Rs complaint. She also found 
that Zenith  hadnt  done anything wrong by not knowing her car needed to go to a specialist 
sooner. 
As Mrs R disagreed the complaint  has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R said her car has now been repaired. Ive therefore only looked  at the initial  handling of 
the claim.  
Mrs Rs policy says it will contribute towards  the repair costs in certain situations. In the 
event of a clam it says Zenith needs to be contacted who will record  the details and advise of 
the nearest nominated service centre  or repairer.  
When Mrs R initially claimed Zenith did this but unfortunately  the garage  wasnt  able to 
repair her car. Ive listened  to the second call Mrs R had where  she said she was told she 
should never have  been  sent there. In the call the adviser says Im a little bit surprised my 
colleague sent you there in the first place. Mrs R responds by saying  She  did offer another 
one first but I needed someone more Croydon based.  During this call the adviser tries to 
find another garage for Mrs R. As a nominated repairer wasnt as close as Mrs R would like 
they try suggesting non-approved repairers.  The adviser also offers Mrs R the option of 
choosing her own garage and lets her know what the policy  would cover. 
Ref: DRN49572252I can understand how frustrating it is when something goes wrong and you need to take time 
off work to sort it out. However, I dont think Zenith need to do more than it already has. I say 
this because Zenith has informed Mrs R of the nearest approved  repairer, as it needs  to 
under the policy.  I appreciate they were unable to repair  Mrs Rs car, but Im not satisfied 
thats Zeniths fault. I say this because while the adviser did say he was surprised Mrs R was 
sent to the first garage  Im not satisfied it was the wrong option. This is because the adviser  
initially offered a different garage, but Mrs R didnt want to go there as it was too far from 
where she lived. In the second call theyve  also tried different garages to find one that was 
suitable to Mrs R and let her know she could choose a garage  she would like to go to. I 
therefore wont be telling Zenith to do anything  more.  
Ive also considered Zenith sending Mrs R a response to her complaint that didnt relate to 
her. While its disappointing to see Zenith did this, I can see it has since  sent her the correct  
response. As theyve corrected the error  as soon as they became aware,  I dont think  they 
need to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4957225