K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE took too long to settle his guaranteed 
asset protection (GAP) policy  claim.
Reference to Great  Lakes includes its agents.
background
Mr Rs house was broken  into. The thieves took his car keys and stole his car. His motor  
insurer paid him the cars market value. Mr R claimed on his GAP policy for the difference  
between that settlement  and the cost of a replacement car. Great  Lakes eventually settled 
the claim.  But Mr R was unhappy  that it took roughly  three months to do so. Mr R brought his 
complaint about  that to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019. For ease I've reproduced my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
Mr R initially claimed on his GAP  policy on 21 December  2017. Great  Lakes has told us that 
it asked Mr R for information in order to validate  his claim but he wasnt happy to provide 
that, although it hasn't given me evidence to support that. So it referred  the matter  to 
investigators. 
Investigators interviewed Mr R and spoke with his home insurer. And on 2 February  2018  
agreed to pay the claim. It made an offer of settlement to Mr R which he didn't think  was 
enough. He pointed to various  discrepancies  between  the cars Great  Lakes had based its 
replacement valuation on and his car, which was stolen.  In particular Mr R said that the 
colour, trim and specifications  weren't the same. Great  Lakes eventually  upheld Mr Rs 
complaint and increased its settlement  offer by £3,750 on 22 March 2018.
I can understand that Mr R might  have wondered why Great Lakes  wanted  to validate the 
theft of his car when his motor insurers had paid a significant sum to settle the claim for its 
market value. But I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to wish to validate any claim itself 
before it pays out. So I don't think it was unfair that it wanted to do so, and that process will 
inevitably take some time. And it seems that it was waiting for information  from Mr Rs home 
insurer in order to complete that. 
But overall I think it took Great Lakes too long to conclude the matter. It took it over three 
months in total to settle the claim.  And while some of that delay was beyond its control it 
undoubtedly contributed to it. Much of that delay was looking into the reasons that Mr R 
disagreed with its initial valuation of a like for like replacement.  It might help if I explain that 
Mr Rs policy  said that it would pay him the difference between  his motor insurers settlement 
and the cost of buying another car that matched the age, mileage and specification  of his car 
when he bought it. As Mr R bought his car second-hand I understand it can be difficult  to find 
an exact match in terms of specification, mileage etc. But in this case  Great Lakes eventually  
agreed that it would  increase its settlement by £3,750. So Im satisfied that its initial  offer 
wasn't fair and that contributed to the delay in it making a final settlement. And it's clear form 
the file that this has been a source of frustration, distress and inconvenience for Mr R. So to 
address that, I think its reasonable  that Great Lakes pays  him £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN43891052Neither Great Lakes  nor Mr R responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As Great Lakes and Mr R didnt raise any objections to my provisional  decision I see no 
reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Great  Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay Mr R £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. It should  pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr R has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay simple  interest  on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision  to the date it makes payment1 at rate of 8% a year. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Great Lakes considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4389105