K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the handling of a refund request he made to Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr L ordered some bedroom furniture and paid a deposit of £1,093  using his Barclaycard.  
No date could  be agreed upon for the furniture to be fitted so he decided  to cancel the order 
and requested a refund  of his deposit. The supplier of the furniture said it was bespoke  and 
had been made, so they refused to return the deposit.
Mr L was unhappy  with the response  from the merchant so asked Barclays to refund the 
money to him. Barclays said they considered whether they could chargeback the deposit 
but felt they were unable to. They also considered Mr Ls claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  but felt there was no liability on them to refund Mr L. They did 
think that it took them too long to reach their decision, so they paid Mr L £25 as an apology.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr L referred  his complaint to us and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She agreed with what Barclays  had said and didnt uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. He didnt  agree  and said hed provide  more details why when he was asked. Our 
investigator has asked  him for this detail, but weve heard nothing further, so his complaint  
has been passed to me for a final decision based on what  we have. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our
investigator and for the same reasons.
The chargeback process  is used to settle disputes between  card issuers (Barclays) and 
merchants. Barclays considered processing a chargeback for the transaction  but didnt feel 
the right conditions applied. That is, they say there was no evidence  of a breach of contract  
and couldnt consider the goods  as not having  been received, because Mr L had cancelled  
the order. They also said they couldnt consider it as a missing refund, as no refund was 
due. I dont think Barclays acted  unfairly  by not taking the chargeback further  on this basis   
I cant reasonably ask them to do anything further in this regard.
Turning now to the section 75 claim. Section 75 says that in some circumstances the 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
theres either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services.
Im satisfied the required circumstances for Mr L to make a claim are present here.
My role isnt to decide whether  Mr L has a valid claim  under section 75 as that is for a court  
to decide. Instead,  Im required  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. In doing so Ive taken  into account  what the law says, including section 75. 
What I need to consider is whether there  was a breach of contract and whether Barclays  
acted fairly  when dealing with his complaint. 
The supplier  of the furniture visited Mr Ls home to take measurements in preparation for the 
fitting of the furniture. The order form said fitting was to take place  as soon as possible and 
the minimum deposit was 40% of the balance. The terms and conditions say the deposit 
cannot be refunded  after work has commenced. Balance to be paid on delivery. 
Ref: DRN49834222Its clear that the furniture  was being  made to fit Mr Ls room  specifically  thats why a 
representative took measurements. And in view of the instruction that fitting was to take 
place as soon  as possible, I think its reasonable to expect  the manufacture of the furniture 
to start quickly. Bearing in mind the wording  of the conditions, I think  its also reasonable to 
expect that some of the work referred  to in the terms and conditions will take place before 
delivery. 
Our investigator spoke  to the supplier and they confirmed, while  it would be tailored during 
fitting, the furniture  had been made to measure. Mr L subsequently  cancelled the contract  as 
a fitting date couldnt be agreed. I cant see that there has been any breach of contract by 
the supplier. 
Ive also considered whether the supplier  misrepresented the contract  or the furniture to 
Mr L. For a claim  under  a misrepresentation to succeed, the consumer must have been 
given false information  and that information  must  have  induced them into accepting  a 
contract they wouldnt have accepted if theyd been given the correct information. 
In this case, the supplier visited Mr L to measure up and confirm  details of the furniture  with 
him. The fitting was to take place as soon as possible. Mr L entered  the contract on that 
basis, and Ive seen  nothing to indicate  that the supplier gave him any false  information that 
induced him into buying  the furniture. I cant see theres been any misrepresentation in this 
instance.  
For the reasons  set out, I dont think Barclays have  acted  unfairly  or unreasonably  by not 
giving him a refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4983422