K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  and the way it handled his claim after an 
accident under a motor insurance  policy.
background
The parties are aware of the background circumstances to this dispute so I wont  repeat all 
the detail here. In summary though, Mr K thinks UKI is responsible for a delay in his car 
being repaired. He says UKI is not willing  to pay the amount  it will cost him to get the car 
repaired. Mr K feels UKI has been  lying and this has caused him stress and inconvenience.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and concluded that there were  some avoidable 
delays in the early  stages  of the claim and UKI has offered a fair amount  of compensation 
(£100) to reflect that. He noted that UKI had paid Mr K £974.86  based  on UKIs engineer 
inspecting the vehicle and authorising replacement of the nearside mirror, painting of the 
nearside door, removal of the dash and the glass fragments. The investigator was satisfied 
this was the amount it would have cost UKI to put right the accident damage.  
Mr K disagreed with the amount and provided  an estimate from the vehicles manufacturers 
approved dealership showing  the cost of repair  was almost £400 more  than UKI had offered. 
The investigator remained of the view that UKI had agreed to the amount it was responsible  
for under the policy, so the matter has been passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy, like every motor insurance policy Ive seen, UKI will not cover any repair 
which improves the cars condition beyond its condition before the insured event occurred. 
The accident  damage in Mr Ks case was limited to replacing a nearside  mirror,  painting  a 
door, removing the dashboard  to clear glass fragments. Taking into account the information 
made available by Mr K and UKI Im persuaded that this is the extent of the accident 
damage. And indeed Mr K has recently  provided a quote that covers these aspects.
UKIs engineers breakdown is clear and shows that £974.86 is the amount UKI confirmed 
and authorised with Mr Ks choice of garage. And UKI confirmed this with Mr K too. I 
appreciate Mr K has a different recollection  but Im persuaded by the information from UKI 
that this is what happened. While  Mr K has more recently provided an estimate which is 
around £400 more  than UKIs Im not persuaded UKI should pay this higher amount. UKI 
pays for the damage  to be repaired and so it is entitled to benefit  from the discounts  and 
negotiations it reaches  with providers. Any prudent consumer wouldnt pay more than they 
need to and so Im satisfied UKI should, in this case,  benefit  from any discounted rates it can 
achieve. I accept  UKI had reached  an agreement with Mr Ks choice  of garage about the 
cost and if Mr K is no longer using that garage  Im not persuaded UKI should be compelled 
here to pay more than the amount it had agreed.
I note Mr K has provided an estimate  at more than £3,000 but this includes non-insured 
damage/repairs and so Im not persuaded this has relevance to the amount UKI needs to 
pay under  the policy.
Ref: DRN48228992If Mr Ks car isnt yet fixed and UKI hasnt  paid out the £974.86  then he is free to speak with 
UKI to arrange for his car to be repaired at UKIs approved repairer.  UKI will only deal with 
the accident damage. If Mr K prefers to have the cash amount paid directly  to him then he 
should let UKI know.
UKI acknowledged some initial delays and like the investigator Im satisfied £100 is fair 
compensation.
Mr K has raised an issue over the courtesy car he was given. Whats apparent is that he had 
the use of a courtesy car for a number of weeks. Under the policy  hes only entitled to one 
while his car is being  repaired  by one of UKIs approved repairers. The car wasnt being 
repaired and in any case UKI had arranged hire after one of the providers had asked Mr K to 
return a courtesy car. Im persuaded UKI provided a car beyond  what  it was required to and 
it has been fair. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4822899