K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. 
Mr S and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr S and Mrs T took out PPI at the same time as taking  out a loan.  Both were done  
during a branch meeting. The PPI was set up in Mr S sole name and it offered to protect 
their Mr S and Mrs Ts loan repayments  in the event Mr S couldnt  work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 12 months for unemployment 
and up to 60 months for accident and sickness. It cost less than £3 month.
At the time Mr S was employed and he says he was entitled to more than three months  but 
less than six months sick pay. He said he had more than three months of pay in savings 
and was in good health at the time.
BoS records show the loan ended in 2004.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  They  said they 
thought Mr S and Mrs T chose PPI and there was nothing to say it was unsuitable or 
inappropriate for them.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this.
This was a sale by meeting. The loan agreement Mr S and Mrs T signed records  a cross 
in the Yes box for PPI  the No box is blank.  Im mindful that the cross is printed on the 
agreement  its not handwritten. But based on what we know of how sales like Mr S and 
Mrs Ts were carried out, they wouldve been asked by the adviser if they wanted PPI 
during the application  stage. The printed cross  on the agreement then reflected the 
decision made.
Because Ive not been persuaded that something very different happened in Mr S and 
Mrs Ts case,  I think more likely than not they were given a choice about PPI and they 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
Ref: DRN46373412BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S and Mrs T so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example Mr S as the policyholder wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover   for example he 
didnt have significant existing means  such that the cover was inappropriate or of limited 
use to him.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  for example the limited evidence available doesnt  tell me if the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  were clearly highlighted. But Ive found  
above that they likely chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.  At less 
than £3 a month its cost was in my view negligible and I think it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put them off taking it out. 
In light of the above, it follows that I dont think Mr S and Mrs T have lost out as a result of 
having PPI with their loan,  so BoS doesnt  have to do anything  to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint  and I make  no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4637341