K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the way a subsidence claim under their home insurance 
policy has been handled by Society of Lloyds. Theyre also unhappy that theyve been 
refused further  cover  on renewal.
background
In 2015 Mr and Mr D made a claim for subsidence in respect of their home  which is about 
400 years old. They say the claim affected  well over two thirds  of their home. SOL accepted  
the claim and appointed  a loss adjuster to handle it.
The loss adjuster found that the subsidence  had been caused by tree roots.  Mr and Mrs D 
reduced the size of the tree. SOL arranged for a root barrier to be put in between  the tree 
and the house.
Mr and Mrs D say that in July 2017  SOL told them it wouldnt be renewing  their policy. They 
say they were unable  to get subsidence cover from another insurer as they were in the 
middle of a subsidence claim.
In September  2017 after monitoring showed that the property had stopped moving, SOL 
instructed a builder  to repair  the cracks (to the stonework outside and internally) and 
redecorate two bedrooms. Mr and Mrs D complained because they werent happy with the 
standard of the works. The loss adjuster agreed that another contractor should redo the 
works. The second contractor started  work  in April 2018.
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs D complained to SOL. They were unhappy with the time it was 
taking to repair their property, the fact that two bedrooms had been  out of use since April, 
Mrs D having to project manage much of the work  and the lack of support. SOL 
acknowledged their complaint  but didnt comment with regard to the concerns they raised.
Mr and Mrs D brought  their complaint to this service.
SOL explained that the underwriter that previously insured  Mr and Mrs Ds property had 
withdrawn from the market, so the policy couldnt be reinstated.  It suggested Mr and Mrs D 
contact their broker to see where  the broker had placed all the other  policies that this 
underwriter hadnt  renewed. SOL also didnt agree to pay compensation.
Initially Mr and Mrs D said theyd like SOL to continue  with the repair  work. However in 
2019 they said theyd decided to get the works  done privately with agreement  from SOL.  
But Mr and Mrs D said despite agreeing to make interim payments SOL had so far refused 
to reimburse them.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
There are several elements to this complaint and I considered each of them in turn.
repairs
I said Mr and Mrs D had a number of concerns about SOLs proposed repairs.  They didnt 
think SOLs  loss adjuster initially understood the complexity  of repairing a house  as old as 
theirs. 
Ref: DRN44609302In my provisional findings I suggested  that if there  was a disagreement  about  the works  to 
be carried out, Id require SOL to instruct an independent engineer  (chosen by 
Mr and Mrs D from a panel of three  nominated by SOL) to act on behalf  of itself and 
Mr and Mrs D to decide what  works should be carried out to ensure an effective and lasting 
repair. The cost of this engineer would  be met by SOL. The parties should be bound  by the 
engineers findings.
Mr and Mrs D have since clarified  that theyre  happy with the repairs  that have already been  
completed. But they said that since starting the repairs,  additional work has been found 
necessary by their structural  engineer which SOL either hasnt agreed to or hasnt agreed to 
pay the full cost. 
repayment of costs
I asked Mr and Mrs D to send  me a copy of any invoices for which they are waiting to be 
reimbursed by SOL. I said I was minded to require SOL to settle such invoices in full with 
interest from the date Mr and Mrs D paid them. Mr and Mrs D said SOL was currently up to 
date with the interim  payments  but theyd like interest because theyd been out of pocket for 
relatively large amounts of money  for well over six months at one stage.
withdrawal of subsidence cover
SOL had explained  that the underwriter that previously insured this property had withdrawn 
from the market. I said we might require  an insurer to continue cover where there was an 
on-going claim. But that didnt seem fair here as I thought Mr and Mrs Ds broker  would 
have been likely to have made  alternative  arrangements with another insurer for the transfer 
of existing policies  in bulk from the underwriter  which formerly provided  cover.  I thought it 
was reasonable  for SOL to suggest  that Mr and Mrs D should contact their broker  regarding 
the continuation of cover in the first instance.
Mr and Mrs D said theyd approached their broker early on. It had only recommended they 
use their existing insurer who doesnt provide them with subsidence cover.
I was mindful that because of delays on SOLs part, this claim had dragged on far longer 
than it should  have. As a consequence Mr and Mrs D have been without subsidence cover 
for much longer than necessary because no-one wanted to provide cover while their claim 
is on-going. I thought  in order to treat Mr and Mrs D fairly if there were any new instance  of 
subsidence starting since SOLs policy ended and before  their property was structurally  
sound again, then SOL would need to act as though  it had been providing cover  for them.
increase in insurance premiums
Mr and Mrs D say that theyve also been paying a lot more for their reduced cover with a 
new insurer. I cant fairly hold SOL responsible  for that because its up to that insurer  how it 
wishes to price its cover.
compensation for trouble  and upset
I've reviewed  the timeline and history  of this claim. I thought it had been handled poorly  by 
SOL. I saw there were long periods where  nothing happened. I felt in the meantime 
Mr and Mrs D had been living with a lot of disruption  in their home, with two bedrooms out of 
use which was particularly  inconvenient when they were needed for children returning  home  
from university.
I noted the loss adjuster accepted that the quality of the decoration  by the first contractor 
was exceptionally poor which would have been very upsetting for Mr and Mrs D. Due to 
Ref: DRN44609303failings on the part of SOLs loss adjuster, Mrs D felt she had to step in and proactively 
manage the claim and she said the stress  of this has affected her physical  health  as 
monitored by her doctor.
In summary  works affecting a large part of their home were scheduled to take about  six 
weeks but had dragged  on for over two years. Our adjudicator  asked SOL to pay £1,200  
compensation to Mr and Mrs D. I thought this properly reflected the impact the claim 
handling had had on them.
Mr and Mrs D suggested that compensation of £2,000 would be appropriate.
Mr and Mrs D made  the following additional  comments in response  to my provisional 
decision:
they asked for a guarantee that the repairs were fully signed  off when they were  finished 
so that they could  get subsidence cover  reinstated  on their policy;
they wanted the repairs to be accurately described in the sign-off document;
theyd like a cash settlement for the remainder  of the claim once the structural 
repairs/redecoration of the computer room/downstairs toilet  had been completed so that 
they could finish  the remainder of the non-structural  works at their own pace; and
reimbursement for their management  time.  
In summary  SOL responded as follows:
It would guarantee the quality of any remediation  work carried out to Mr and Mrs Ds 
property;
It would be responsible for any fresh subsidence  damage arising  out of the same  cause.
It wasnt possible for it to provide Mr and Mrs D with an actual  insurance  policy  for the 
period between their old policy  lapsing and the building being confirmed as structurally  
sound in order  to cover any new and unrelated subsidence  damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
repairs
Neither party has provided me with information about the works which are still in dispute.  So 
I cant say what reasonably needs  to be done.  In the light of that I remain of the view that 
the best way of resolving this if the parties maintain their current positions is for an 
independent expert  to assess  the works which arent  agreed  and decide what  needs  to be 
done to carry  out an effective  and lasting repair. The expert  can then prepare a report  to be 
sent to both parties and if he/she finds that more works are necessary, then SOL will have 
to pay the cost of such works.
In order to treat Mr and Mrs D fairly I think SOL should provide a shortlist of three experts (in 
this case suitably qualified  structural engineers) to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D should then 
nominate one of these  three experts.  SOL should  instruct that expert  to act for both parties at 
its expense. Both parties will be bound by the experts findings.
Ref: DRN44609304repayment of costs
I agree  that interest should be payable  on the interim payments to reflect  the fact 
Mr and Mrs D werent  repaid as promptly as they should have been.
withdrawal of subsidence cover
For the reason  explained in my provisional findings  I think  its SOLs  fault Mr and Mrs D 
have been without subsidence cover  for much  longer than necessary. I appreciate  that 
SOL might not be able to provide Mr and Mrs D with an actual insurance  policy  for the 
period between their old policy lapsing and the building being confirmed as structurally  
sound in order  to cover any new and unrelated subsidence damage. But thats not what 
Im requiring  it to do. Im simply  saying that in order  to remedy  the fact that Mr and Mrs D 
wont have had subsidence cover for about three years instead of a few months, SOL 
should act as though  it had been providing cover during  this time if any new and unrelated 
subsidence damage comes to light as having occurred during the period between their old 
policy lapsing and the building  being confirmed as structurally sound.
compensation for trouble  and upset
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs D but based on what Ive awarded  for similar impact on 
consumers caused  by an insurers failings, overall I think an award of £1,200 is appropriate 
to compensate them for the trouble and upset caused to them  by SOLs  various failings in 
this instance.
I dont generally award a monetary amount for a consumers  time in managing a claim. But 
Ive taken into account the impact  this had on Mrs D in looking at the amount of 
compensation SOL should pay for trouble and upset.
going forward 
Where an insurer has carried out repairs in a subsidence claim, when the works have been 
finished, they provide the consumer with a certificate of structural adequacy.  This is a 
document that the consumer will need if they intend to sell the property or if they approach 
an alternative insurer. 
Its usually a single page which briefly confirms  what caused the subsidence, what was 
done to resolve  it and what  type of repairs have  been  completed by the insurer.  Insurers will 
usually provide a copy  of the schedule of work  alongside it. Its purpose is essentially to 
provide reassurance that the subsidence problem  has been properly dealt with.
But its not a guarantee of no further movement. Its also not a guarantee about the quality 
of the works. The contractor(s)  involved will usually provide their own guarantees for the 
work they did. But regardless of the contractor guarantee(s) or the certificate,  if the insurer 
has carried out the repairs, the insurer remains responsible  for providing a lasting and 
effective repair of the damage. This is why we dont normally  allow insurers  to cash  settle 
subsidence claims for anything other than decorative repairs.
The difficulty  in this case is that because of the way SOL was handling their claim, 
Mr and Mrs D reached  the point where  they felt they had no option but to get their own 
contractor to finish the repairs. I think a reasonable compromise in this case  would be for 
SOL to issue a certificate of structural adequacy after carrying out whatever inspections it 
needs to and reviewing whatever documentation it needs from Mr and Mrs Ds engineer in 
order to do so. That should enable Mr and Mrs D to obtain subsidence cover in future.
Ref: DRN44609305I can understand why Mr and Mrs D would like a cash settlement for the remainder of the 
non-structural works. I cant see why SOL would  object to this since its agreed  to them 
carrying out the other works. But this isnt something  I can consider as part of this 
complaint. They need to raise this with SOL first.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Society  of Lloyds to:
jointly  appoint (with Mr and Mrs D) an independent structural engineer  to be chosen as 
outlined above   to:
inspect Mr and Mrs Ds home in respect  of the outstanding issues theyve reported;  
and
decide  which  of the issues, if any, Society  of Lloyds is responsible for (either  under the 
terms of the policy  as part of the claim or because of poor workmanship or claims 
handling); and
determine  the scope  and cost of any work that Society of Lloyds is responsible  for.
pay the appointed engineers costs.
pay Mr and Mrs D the amount calculated by the engineer in respect of any work 
Society of Lloyds is responsible for.
pay Mr and Mrs D interest* on the amounts  it has reimbursed them  in respect  of repair  
works calculated from the date Mr and Mrs D made  such  payments (subject  to it receiving 
satisfactory evidence of that) to the date of settlement.
act as though it had been providing cover for Mr and Mrs D if there is any new instance of 
subsidence since SOLs  policy  ended and their property is held to be structurally  sound 
again; 
provide Mr and Mrs D with a certificate of structural adequacy when the repairs have 
been finished as outlined  above; and
pay Mr and Mrs D £1,200 compensation for its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to the dates  
stated. If Society  of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs D, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4460930