K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited (Standard  Life) is responsible for a 
number of errors in connection with setting up and managing her Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). She says these issues led to her suffering a financial loss.
background to this complaint
Mrs Rs late husband had a Standard  Life SIPP from which  he was taking capped  income  
withdrawals. When Mr R died in 2013  his SIPP was valued at about  £56,000.  Mrs R 
inherited this money and decided to continue taking the maximum income withdrawal 
available. This required  Standard Life to set up a new SIPP  in Mrs Rs name. At that time 
she lived overseas  and didnt have a financial adviser. Standard Lifes  records  confirm that 
Mrs R agreed  to the appointment of her late husbands former UK based  adviser  to enable it 
to set up the new SIPP. Since Mrs R didnt  provide  an investment instruction to Standard 
Life, the value of her plan was invested  in a SIPP bank account. 
In 2015 Mrs R returned to the UK to live and says she provided her new address to Standard  
Life. She subsequently moved  home again  but, until she made this complaint in 2018, 
Standard Life had no record of her UK address. Therefore, Mrs R didnt receive  an annual 
SIPP statement  (or any other  correspondence) from Standard Life for a few years.
In 2018 HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) sent an updated tax code to Standard Life in 
connection with Mrs Rs income withdrawals. This led to income tax being deducted at 
source. When Mrs R noticed the amount credited to her bank account had reduced (because 
of the deduction of income tax), she contacted  Standard Life. She then complained to 
Standard Life about the following  issues:
 
her income withdrawals had reduced without warning and led to her experiencing 
financial difficulties;
the value of her SIPP had fallen by about  £20,000 since 2014;
she didnt authorise her plan to be invested in the SIPP bank account and believed 
she had missed out on fund growth   she believed it would have been better had the 
underlying investments  in her late husbands  SIPP instead  been  transferred in-specie 
to her SIPP;
Standard Life failed to provide regular information about the performance of her 
SIPP;
she didnt approve the appointment of the adviser when her SIPP was set up in 2014; 
and
the adviser had failed  to make contact and provide advice  she said she had 
recently contacted  the advisers business as part of this complaint and it confirmed 
they had no record  of her as a client
Standard Life rejected  Mrs Rs complaint because it was satisfied it hadnt acted 
inappropriately in setting  up the SIPP in 2014  or managing  the plan since then.  Mrs R was 
unhappy with Standard  Lifes  response  and contacted us. One of our adjudicators  reviewed 
this complaint and recommended it should not be upheld for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN47122512Mrs Rs income  withdrawals had reduced  in value  due to the deduction  of income  tax 
after HMRC sent an updated  tax code  to Standard Life  this was a matter outside of 
Standard Lifes  control;
when Mrs Rs late husband passed away, it was a requirement  to sell the underlying  
investments in his SIPP  and hold the proceeds in cash until such time as the death  
benefit could be paid to Mrs R  so it wouldnt have been possible  for the same  
underlying investments  to be transferred in-specie  to Mrs Rs SIPP;
Standard Life invested the value of Mrs Rs plan in the SIPP bank  account  because 
she didnt provide an investment instruction;
Standard Lifes role was limited  to administering Mrs Rs SIPP   this included 
following investment  instructions  and sending periodic updates but didnt extend to 
providing her with advice or assessing  the suitability of the SIPP bank  account;
Standard Lifes records  showed that Mrs R had agreed to the appointment  of the 
adviser when her SIPP was set up in 2014;  and
Standard Life was unable to send  Mrs R regular  information about her SIPP  because  
it didnt have her correct address once she returned to the UK in 2015; 
Mrs R didnt agree with our adjudicators view. So this complaint has been referred to me to 
issue a final decision.  Since making this complaint, I understand that Mrs R has transferred 
the value of her Standard Life SIPP to a new provider to secure  a lifetime annuity.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Ive read and considered the whole file. Ive confined my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point made its 
not because Ive not thought about it or missed  it, but because  I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the wider  
context of the complaint thats been made.
In considering this complaint, Ive kept in mind  the circumstances that led to Mrs R starting a 
new SIPP  following the passing of her husband.  I can imagine it must have been a very 
difficult time for Mrs R for which  she has my sympathy. But its important to bear in mind that 
this complaint will only succeed if I conclude Standard Life made  an error or treated Mrs R 
unfairly. 
In my view, Mrs Rs complaint broadly covers  four main  issues which Ive dealt with below 
under separate headings to make my findings easier to follow.
Reduction in income withdrawals
I havent seen  any evidence Standard Life advised  Mrs R about how much income she 
should withdraw. Rather, the evidence shows she requested  the maximum income available.
Ref: DRN47122513Mrs R says the reduction in income led to her experiencing financial difficulties. I recognise 
this would have  been very upsetting for her, particularly as she had no warning. But, as 
explained by our adjudicator, Mrs Rs income  reduced as a result  of income tax being 
deducted after HMRC  sent an updated tax code to Standard  Life. It had no control  over this 
issue and was compelled to follow HMRCs instruction. So Standard Life didnt make  an 
error. Furthermore, as explained below, Standard Life didnt have Mrs Rs address so was 
unable to warn her. 
For Mrs Rs benefit, it is useful  to note that pension income is potentially subject to income  
tax. This depends on the individuals overall  income  and tax status  every  tax year. Standard  
Life isnt responsible for checking and advising Mrs R on her tax affairs,  as she seems to 
believe. Had Standard Life told Mrs R in 2014  that her withdrawals would potentially be 
subject to income tax, I dont consider  this would have altered  her decision to draw  
maximum income from her SIPP. 
If Mrs R believes  the deduction of income tax from her withdrawals is incorrect she should 
contact HMRC or speak  to an accountant  since any overpaid tax can be reclaimed.
Fund choice  
The SIPP application form included a section for Mrs R to specify,  from a selection of funds, 
where she wanted her money to be invested.  The form warned that if no fund selection  was 
made or if the instructions  were unclear, Standard  Life would invest the money in its SIPP 
bank account.  Mrs R told us that she didnt think that part of the form was important and left 
it blank. So Im satisfied  she saw it. This resulted  in Standard Life investing her money in the 
SIPP bank  account.  It wrote to Mrs R in 2014  at her then overseas address to confirm this:
Please note the investment is currently in our SIPP bank account. If you wish to 
change your investment  please contact our Trades Department
Standard Life didnt receive alternative investment instructions from Mrs R. So the value of 
her plan remained invested in the SIPP bank account until she made this complaint  in 2018.
Standard Life wasnt required  to check if the SIPP bank account was suitable  for Mrs R. That 
wasnt Standard  Lifes role or responsibility  as administrator of the SIPP.
Im satisfied that the application form adequately explained what would happen if Mrs R 
didnt specify a fund choice. If she was unsure what to do then she could have sought 
financial advice or asked Standard Life for help.  I feel sympathy  for Mrs R and the final loss 
she thinks shes suffered. But in my view,  Standard  Life isnt responsible for Mrs R failing to 
confirm her investment  instruction or any financial loss flowing from the fact her money was 
invested in the SIPP bank  account.
Appointment of the UK based  financial adviser
Despite what she now says, the documents provided by Standard  Life show that Mrs R 
agreed to the appointment  of the adviser purely as a means  to set up the new SIPP.  So I 
cannot agree that she wasnt aware of this. No commission or fee was payable to the 
adviser. Therefore  Mrs R didnt incur  any costs due to the appointment of the adviser.  
Ref: DRN47122514With regard to the provision of financial  advice  after the SIPP had been set up, this wasnt 
the responsibility of Standard Life. In my view, if, having  agreed to the appointment of the 
adviser, Mrs R felt she needed advice, then she could have contacted the adviser in 
question or a different adviser  at any time.  The fact she didnt do this isnt Standard Lifes  
fault.
Provision of information about the SIPP
Mrs R says she provided two different addresses  to Standard  Life after she returned to the 
UK in 2015  but that it had failed to send her regular information about her SIPP.
 
However, Standard  Life has no record of Mrs R providing an updated address after she 
returned to the UK. I have no reason to believe Standard Lifes records  are incomplete  or 
that it would  ignore  on two separate occasions   updated address details. This seems 
improbable to me. This leads me to conclude, on balance, that Mrs R didnt provide new 
address information  to Standard Life, as she asserts.  So I cannot find Standard  Life at fault 
for failing to send  Mrs R information about  her SIPP. I think it reasonable to assume Mrs R 
would have contacted Standard Life if she felt she required information. The fact she didnt 
suggests to me that she was content  with not receiving any information until her income 
reduced.
Conclusion
I know this will come as a severe disappointment  to Mrs R, but I havent  seen  any evidence 
that Standard  Life made an error  or treated her unfairly. So overall, I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require Standard Life to pay Mrs R 
compensation or to take any other action in response to this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint 
about Standard Life Assurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712251