K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that the van he acquired using finance provided by PSA Finance UK Limited  
(PSA) was not of satisfactory quality.
Background
In August  2017  Mr M entered into a 60-month  conditional  sale agreement with PSA for a
used van. The agreement recorded that the van had been first registered in August  2016
and had an odometer reading of 9,100  miles. The cash price was £14,000, of which Mr M
paid £5,000 as a deposit. The monthly payments would be £182.90. The van had previously
been owned by the dealership from which  PSA acquired it at the time Mr M entered into the
conditional sale agreement.
From about  November 2017 Mr M was in contact with the dealership about a number of
issues he had with the van. They included:
lack of support in the flooring;
cracked or poorly fitting  cabin trim;
exterior scratches after the removal of the dealerships signage;
noisy gears  and clutch shudder;
inability  to disengage  the vans electronic stability programme (ESP);
battery draining,  causing warning lights to illuminate;
fuel consumption reading not adjusting while driving;
wheel alignment; and
the van pulling to the left.
The dealership has provided worksheets indicating it carried  out repairs on at least  three
occasions.
In December 2017 it renewed and refitted  some  cabin  trims,  fitted plywood under the vans
floor, renewed the rear weather seal and carried out wheel  alignment. The worksheet also
notes work  that the dealership says it carried out before delivery. The odometer reading  at
this point was just over 14,300 miles.
In May 2018  the dealerships worksheet  noted  that Mr M had reported the van pulling left,
clutch shudder and gearbox noises,  noise from the steering,  problems with the floor support
and with plastics around the interior  bonnet catch.  Its not clear  from the worksheet  however
what, if any, work was carried out, although PSA later commented on what the dealership
had said shortly afterwards. The odometer  reading  was then 21,300 miles.
An independent inspection was carried out (at the request of another  finance provider) in
August 2018.  That inspection  said that Mr M had reported steering pulling to the left, noise
from the clutch and dents caused  by the dealership. The report  noted a small dent and a
scratch and that the floor covering was not fitting correctly.  A two-mile test drive  confirmed
that the van was pulling  to the left, but no reason was identified  the tyres were  correctly
inflated, did not show abnormal wear and, like the wheels, were not damaged.
The report  also said that Mr M had advised  that the van sustained  damages in an accident
Ref: DRN47895762 around December / January
The inspecting engineer did not believe that the van would have been pulling to the left when
Mr M took delivery of it. That conclusion  appears  to have been based to a large extent on
the nearly 13,000 miles he had completed  since he took delivery.
In January 2019 the clutch was replaced.  The odometer reading  was just under 26,500 
miles.
There are further worksheets indicating that appointments had been cancelled.
In the meantime, in September 2018, Mr M had referred the matter to this service. He 
indicated that he thought  he should be entitled to reject  the van. Having considered the 
evidence and arguments, one of our investigators  reached the preliminary conclusion that 
the van had not been  of satisfactory quality when it was delivered  to Mr M; in particular, it 
was reported to be pulling to the left and the floor covering was not of the same  pattern as 
other vans of the same  model. The investigator thought that it would be fair to allow Mr M to 
reject the van.
PSA didnt accept  the investigators  view.  It reported what  the dealership had said in June  
2018; in summary,  that was: 
The dealership  had carried out a wheel alignment and a road test. It had noticed a 
slight pull to the left on a road test, but only consistent with the roads camber. 
The dealership  had not noticed any clutch shudder. (As Ive indicated, however, the 
clutch was later replaced in any event.)
The dealership  had not identified  any gear change fault.
It had not identified any steering noise.
The floor in the drivers cabin was being  worked  on.
The bonnet catch was not rattling and appeared secure.
PSA said it had followed up with the dealership in July 2018. It said that all the concerns had
been rectified by repair or replacement. This included swapping the wheels with those  from 
another van to address the issue of the van drifting to the left. The dealership had reported
that other  vans of the same make  and model  handled in a similar manner to Mr Ms.
PSA also noted  that there was no information about the accident mentioned in the
independent investigators report.  In particular, there was no report  of what, if anything, was
damaged or what repairs were carried out.
Ref: DRN47895763The investigator was not persuaded to change their view, and PSA asked that an
ombudsman review the case. It said that if the van was drifting to the left, that was a
characteristic of the model;  other  vans which the dealership had driven  behaved in much the
same way. On the floor, it commented that Mr M had requested  that part of it be replaced
and he should  therefore address any problems with the dealership.  It did however offer  as
a gesture of goodwill   to pay Mr M £150 and to refund one monthly payment of £182.90.
Mr M commented that, having  paid the monthly rental for as long as he had, he thought he
would lose out if he returned the van. He also said that he had had the wheel  alignment
checked, which showed no issue. The van was however still pulling to the left.
I considered what had happened  and, because I was minded to reach a different  from that 
reached by the investigator, I issued  a provisional  decision. I set out below the substance of 
my findings:
Ill discuss first of all some  general  principles.
As the supplier of the van to Mr M, PSA was contractually obliged  to provide him with a van
which was of satisfactory quality. That means that it should have been of the quality a
reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. Those circumstances,  in this case,
the vans age, mileage and price.  The quality  of goods includes their state  and condition,
appearance and finish, safety  and durability. It does not however include anything which
makes the quality of goods unsatisfactory and which was brought to the consumers
attention before the contract was made or which, if the consumer examined the goods
before the contract was made, that examination ought to reveal.
Part of Mr Ms complaint  is that, when he took the van to have problems resolved, it actually
made matters worse. For example, he says that the dealership  damaged the vans bodywork
by denting it and by the way in which it polished it. The complaint that I have to consider,
however, is Mr Ms complaint about PSA. Any additional problems caused by the dealership
after delivery of the van to M are not PSAs responsibility. PSA is however  responsible  for
any faults which meant the van was not of satisfactory quality and which  have not been
remedied.
The van was not brand new when  Mr M took delivery of it, so it would not be reasonable to
expect it to be in perfect condition. Against  that, it was only a year old, so should  have been
free of major  defects.
As Ive described, the dealership appears  to have carried out work on at least  three
occasions, not including that done  before delivery. Some of that work has been quite
significant  for example, replacing the clutch  whilst some could fairly be described as
cosmetic. Other work, such as ensuring  the battery was fully charged,  might be seen to be
routine maintenance. It appears  however  that charging the battery did resolve a number of
other apparent issues, such  as the seatbelt  warning.
There were also issues  which Mr M saw as problem but which the dealership explained were
normal. He said, for example, that it wasnt possible to disable the ESP, but the dealership
explained that, as a safety feature, it would be enabled automatically once the van was
started.
One of Mr Ms ongoing concerns has been the vans flooring.  The investigator commented:
I have also been provided  images  by Mr M showing  that there is a hole in the floor
covering and when compared to other vans of the same model there is no hole, which
Ref: DRN47895764shows that either the wrong floor covering  has been  used as there are also bolt holes
[where] no bolts are present.
This part of Mr Ms complaint appears therefore to concern the general  configuration  of the
van, rather than a defect which would affect  its quality. It would appear  as well to be a matter
which ought to have been apparent to Mr M on any pre-contract inspection of the van.
In respect of the vans bodywork, any defects   such as dents and scratches  were  either
present at the time of delivery or were caused by the dealership. If they were present at
delivery, I would  have expected Mr M to have noticed them; if the dealership was
responsible for them, they did not affect the quality  of the van that PSA supplied.
I turn then to the issue of the van pulling to the left. The wheels have  been  changed and 
their alignment checked. Neither they nor the tyres are damaged.  The independent 
inspection did find that the van pulled to the left and so did the dealership. The dealership  
said however that this was due to road camber and that the vans handling was similar  to 
that of other vans of the same  model.  PSA took that to mean that this was a characteristic of 
the vehicle  but not one which warranted a recall. The independent inspection  concluded  
that it was not something that was likely  to have been present at delivery.
In some respects, the conclusions of the dealership  and the independent engineer  are
inconsistent with each  other. If, as the independent engineer concluded, the van was not
pulling to the left from delivery, it was not a characteristic  of the model  but something that
developed over time. If, as the dealership  suggests,  it was normal  for this model, it must
have been present from the outset.
In addition, its not clear  whether the accident that Mr M mentioned to the independent
engineer might have  contributed to the issue he reported. In responding to this provisional
decision, he may wish to provide more information about that.
At present however  Im not persuaded that the handling issue  that has been identified  and
described by Mr M, the independent engineer and the dealership  is something  that means
that van was not of satisfactory quality. In particular, I note that no cause has been identified
and that the dealership  which I would expect  to be more familiar with the make and model
of van than, say, Mr M or the independent engineer   concluded that the vans  handling was
similar to that of other models.
I concluded  provisionally  that PSAs offer was a fair one and invited both parties to 
provide me with any further evidence and arguments they wanted me to consider before I 
issued a final decision.
PSA had nothing to add. Mr M did not accept  my provisional findings, however. As well as 
repeating some of the points he had already made, he also said, in summary:
When he collected the van, none  of the agreed work had been done.
He had been unable  to test drive the van on the motorway,  because  the dealership  was 
about to close. 
He didnt  use the van much in the first two months after delivery, because he had not 
sold his previous vehicle. When he did, however, he noticed problems with the van. 
He frequently had difficulties with the dealerships booking system.
The seatbelt warning problem persisted, even after the battery had been charged.  
The van continued pulling to the left, unlike  other vans he had driven from the same 
Ref: DRN47895765dealership. The steering  problems started before the accident.
The vans alarm would go off unexpectedly  and for no reason.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first of all reassure Mr M that I have considered the same evidence  as the 
investigator considered,  including  the photographs he supplied. However, some of the 
evidence is contradictory  and some is disputed. 
Mr M has clarified  as I invited him to do  that the steering issue  was present before the 
accident and, therefore, not affected  by it. It remains the fact however that the dealership  
investigated that issue and concluded  that there was nothing wrong with the vans handling; 
it checked for possible causes and found  nothing wrong.
Its clear that Mr M has been  frustrated  by his interactions with the dealership. He has said 
for example that bookings were cancelled and that the van was damaged. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, however, those are not matters for which  I can properly hold PSA 
responsible.    
PSAs obligation was to supply a van which was of satisfactory quality. The fact that repairs 
were carried  out is an indication that the van was not of satisfactory quality in some respects. 
However, for the reasons  I set out in my provisional decision, I believe  that the issues  which  
meant the van was not satisfactory have been resolved. There was no reasonable 
expectation that the van would be as new  when delivered to Mr M, still less that it would 
remain in the condition it was when supplied;  in saying that, I accept of course that 
satisfactory quality encompasses durability. 
I can understand Mr Ms frustration here, but I am afraid that I remain of the view that PSAs 
offer, when considered along  with the repairs that have  been carried out by the dealership, is 
a fair one. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require PSA Finance UK Limited  to do 
anything more to resolve  Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789576