K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited in relation  to 
warranties he thought he had for a conservatory  and double-glazed windows and doors,  
because a claim he made in respect of the conservatory was declined on the basis  the 
warranties were never activated by him (meaning there is no cover in place).
background
In 2010 Mr L contracted  with a double-glazing installer company to install a conservatory 
and replace some window  and doors  at his home. The work was completed and Mr L paid 
for the work in full in June  2010. He was given  a certificate saying the work was 
guaranteed.
Red Sands agent  sent two letters to Mr L in July 2010. This asked Mr L to send back a 
feedback slip rating the installers work and confirming there were no defects. The letters 
said the warranties  (one for the conservatory and one for the windows and doors)  wouldnt  
activate unless the slip was received.
In 2017 Mr L noted water coming  through the conservatory roof. He tried contacting the 
installer but found theyd gone out of business. He spoke to FENSA  and they advised  him 
that the warranties that the installer had issued had been underwritten by Red Sands. Mr L 
contacted Red Sands.
Red Sands  said it couldnt  register a claim  for Mr L in respect of the water ingress issue. It 
said there were warranties registered  for the work hed had carried out, but it hadnt  
received the return  slip from him, so the warranties  had never  been  activated. The 
warranties, it said, have  to be active before the installer goes out of business, so as the 
installer was now no longer  trading,  the warranties couldnt be activated and Mr L couldnt 
benefit from them. Mr L complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Red Sands paperwork had been unclear and it should have 
checked to see if Mr L had received it (because the letters  were  so important). He said it 
should grant the conservatory warranty and deal with the claim.
Red Sands  was unhappy with our investigators  findings. The complaint was passed to me 
and I issued a provisional decision as I felt Red Sands had acted unfairly.  The parties  have 
now responded; my findings (including those  stated provisionally) are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I think  Red Sands 
should grant both warranties  and consider the claim for the conservatory. 
I explained why in my provisional findings:
Whether Mr L received the letters or not, I believe their contents are unclear. The important 
part in the letter about slips needing  to be returned  for cover to activate isnt highlighted or 
picked out at all. The slip itself appears  to be no more than a feedback slip  no more than 
the sort of information request most people would overlook. Im not convinced  its fair or 
Ref: DRN41141822reasonable for Red Sands to rely on non-return of the slip as a bar to Mr L benefitting from 
cover.
The letters,  as I say arent particularly clear but also, in this case, I see that Red Sands  did 
receive payment  from the installer for the cover, and would have had no issue  with 
activating it, if the slip had been returned.  Even, from what it has said, if it had been  
received at any time up to the much  later point of the installer going out of business.
Part of my role is to look at what is fair and reasonable.  A policyholder losing out on 
potential cover based on nothing more than a technicality is something Ill often find to be 
unfair. I dont think Red Sands position  would be any different now if the slip had been 
returned before the installer went out of business.  And in saying  that I think its important to 
remember that the warranty only applies in the event  the installer is no longer trading  so 
this isnt the sort of situation  where  failure to implement the cover means Red Sands  now 
cant look to recover any claim outlay it incurs  (because the installer  is no longer in 
existence).
The slip does also ask for the warranty-holder to confirm  that there are no defects present 
with the work. I can understand that Red Sands might feel its position in this respect has 
been prejudiced somehow. But whilst  it might  think that, I dont believe it has. Mr L paid for 
the work  in full in June 2010, so I think its reasonable  to conclude he was satisfied with it at 
the time.  I dont  think hed have settled the bill if thered been  any obvious problems or 
issues with the work.
The term of both warranties ends next year. Whilst I trust that Mr L wont have any issue 
with the windows and doors before then, the situation with that warranty is the same as that 
for the conservatory. So it makes sense to me to say at this point, having already 
considered all the issues that relate to both warranties, that Red Sands activates them  both. 
It can then consider  the conservatory claim. Should  Mr L have any other  concerns about  
the installations  before the terms of the warranties end, hell then be able to make claims to 
Red Sands  without further debate  about the activation issue preventing  Red Sands from 
acting.
Mr L accepted  my findings.  Red Sands  said it felt there was nothing  it could say that would 
likely change  my view on the complaint. 
As Mr L has accepted my findings,  and Red Sands hasnt raised  any objection to them,  
I see no reason to change  them. My provisional  findings now form the findings of this, my 
final decision.
my decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to 
provide cover to Mr L for his conservatory  and windows and doors as though the return  
slips had been received and the warranties activated, and consider his claim  for the 
conservatory.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ref: DRN41141823Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4114182