K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited has unfairly declined  
a clam  shes  made on a pet insurance  policy.
background
Mrs Cs pet insurance policy is underwritten by Red Sands. It is ultimately responsible for the 
complaint. References  I make to Red Sands actions include  the actions of its agents.
Mrs C took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands in 2015  to cover her dog, which I will 
refer to as J. In 2018, J suffered crucial  ligament disease (CCL) and Mrs C made a claim on 
her policy to cover the treatment. 
Red Sands  declined the claim  saying, in summary, J had previously had surgery  for the 
same condition on its other leg in 2013. Red Sands considered this to be a bilateral condition 
 that is a condition which affects a body part of which the pet has two. It said that meant it 
was a pre-existing condition that would have  resulted in an exclusion being added to the 
policy if it had been declared when the policy was taken out.
Mrs C didnt agree with this so she complained  to Red Sands. It said,  in summary, it was 
satisfied it had reached the right conclusion and hadnt done anything wrong in declining  the 
claim.
As she remained unhappy with Red Sands response, Mrs C brought  the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator said, in summary, she didnt think Red Sands had done enough to 
show there was a link between the two CCL ruptures. And because  J hadnt experienced 
any problems with its left hind leg and there were no symptoms present, she didnt 
reasonably think  Mrs C could have anticipated  that a rupture would occur  in that leg. She 
therefore said Red Sands  should cover the claim.
Red Sands  didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Red Sands  is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy  and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those things are. So what I need to decide here is 
whether Red Sands  has acted within these terms, and what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage  to their pet. But, when an insurer  wants 
to apply an exclusion or say a condition has not been met and so decline a claim, the onus is 
on it to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion  or condition applies.
Mrs Cs policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions.  This is common in pet insurance 
policies and means insurers dont have to cover treatment costs  for something if the 
policyholder already knows their pet has a condition when they buy the policy. So Mrs C 
Ref: DRN45921852wouldnt be able to claim for costs relating to a condition  if she knew about it when she took 
out the policy. And even if the condition  initially  affected one leg, it may still be excluded if 
the claim relates to the other leg where  it is the same condition.
In this case, Red Sands says that the claim isnt covered because  it related to an occurrence 
of a bilateral condition in Js left hind leg when it had already been treated for this condition 
in its right hind leg some  time before. It says it was therefore a pre-existing condition. It goes 
on to provide two definitions  which  it says are relevant to this case
Firstly it defines what it considers a bilateral  condition to be
Bilateral condition means any condition affecting body parts of which your pet has 
two, one on each  side of its body (eg ears,  eyes, knees, cruciate ligaments). When  
applying a benefit limit or exclusion,  bilateral  conditions  are considered as one 
condition
And then explains  what  a pre-existing condition means
Pre-existing conditions means any Condition symptom  or any sign of a Condition  
occurring or existing in any form and at any time prior to the commencement date 
Red Sands logic is that because  J had surgery for CCL on its right hind leg in 2013, any 
subsequent problems J experienced with its left leg for that condition  would considered  to be 
a bilateral condition.  And because  of that Mrs C should have been declared CCL as a pre-
existing condition when  the policy was taken  out. And if she had, Red Sands says it would 
have applied  an exclusion  which would have  excluded  treatment.  
But I dont agree that its as simple as that. Generally, our approach is that where  we feel 
two occurrences  of the same condition are not connected, its not fair or reasonable to 
automatically exclude cover for an occurrence of a condition on the second body part, in this 
case a leg.
So when looking at cases  of this nature I need  to decide whether I consider the claim is for a 
new condition or whether  it is a connected  continuation of an existing one. To do this Ill look 
at the evidence provided by both parties,  paying particular attention  to 
previous veterinary history, 
any opinion provided by treating vets as to the nature of the condition 
the claim form for the treatment 
any evidence provided by the insurance  company that shows  why they consider 
there to be a link between the conditions 
previous veterinary history
Its clear from Js previous veterinary history  that it experienced problems with its left hind leg 
for the first time in 2018. That was some time after the policy was taken out. 
I accept that Mrs C was aware  of the problem with CCL on the right hind leg and this 
occurred before the policy was taken out. But as there were no symptoms presenting from 
the left hind leg, I dont think it could be reasonably expected that Mrs C could have 
anticipated there would be problems with this leg five years  later.
Ref: DRN45921853Our usual  approach here is that we would expect a business to show it had asked a 
consumer clear questions  to which the consumer  responded incorrectly. The final response 
states Red Sands relied on presumptions and assumptions and Im not satisfied  this is the 
same as asking clear questions. Thats not to say that Red Sands cant rely on assumptions 
but they must present  the information  in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading and also 
in a sufficiently  prominent way so that Mrs C sees the assumptions and can agree or 
disagree with them.   
Red Sands  says Mrs C took her policy out via an aggregator  a site that provides  quotes 
from multiple insurance companies  and that this website wouldnt have said anything about  
pre-existing conditions. It would have  only been when Mrs C decided to pursue Red Sands 
quote that she would have been  redirected to its website and would have seen the standard  
assumptions it makes. There  are a number of assumptions I consider  relevant to this 
decision
You must ensure  that the information  you provide and the assumptions we have 
made about you and your pet below are correctIf you are unsure about the 
information to give us or if you consider  any of the assumptions below to be incorrect 
then please call us
you accept that we shall not provide cover  for illness, injury, symptoms  or 
conditions that are pre-existing at the date you take out the policy with us or 
which exist at the time you take out the policy or any matters related  to them
we reserve the right to apply  an exclusion  to your policy in respect of any 
illnesses, injuries, symptoms or conditions that we subsequently learn were 
pre-existing at the time you took out the policy
So from this Im satisfied theres  no reference to bilateral conditions  and how they would be 
treated in the event of a claim. Its clear the policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions  or 
any matters relating to them. But I dont think it would be fair to say Mrs C should have 
declared something which Ive concluded she couldnt reasonably have  anticipated and 
wasnt questioned  about clearly. And where  the cruciate problems are as far apart in onset 
as they are here,  five years, I think its unreasonable to reject  this claim on the basis  of 
bilateral condition. 
treating vets opinion
The vet who treated J for the CCL in its right hind leg has provided the statement below 
offering his professional opinion. Im satisfied  this opinion is from an appropriately qualified  
vet whos  had first had experience of treating J so I place considerable weight on what he 
says. 
at the time of Js initial presentation to myself on 22 February  2013  there was no 
evidence of left stifle pathology  on orthopaedic examination.  As such  it would not be 
unreasonable to consider the crucial ligament rupture in the left hind leg in 2018  as a 
new condition/claim
So from this Im satisfied that this its more likely than not the vet considered the left hind leg 
CCL to be a new condition, not a connected continuation of the previous  one in 2013.
the claim form
Ref: DRN45921854The vet treating the left hind leg CCL rupture has ticked the claim form to confirm that Mrs C 
hasnt made  a claim for this condition previously. From this I think  its more likely than not 
that the vets professional opinion is that he considers this to be a new condition  not a 
connected continuation of a previous  one.
evidence from Red Sands
Red Sands  argues that the majority  of CCL ruptures  are chronic  meaning that they last a 
long time  and that the disease typically progresses slowly over time.  It says symptoms 
leading up to a rupture can be subtle or absent but that doesnt  mean  its not part of the 
same condition. I acknowledge  what it says here but Im also mindful that there  is a gap of 
five years between the rupture on the right leg in 2013 and the left leg in 2018,  and the 
treating vets professional opinion is that the left leg was a separate and new condition.
Red Sands  hasnt presented any independent  veterinary evidence  to support its position 
summary
So in summary,  two treating vets have offered their professional opinions that the CCL 
rupture in the left hind leg is more  likely  than not, a new condition and not a connected 
continuation of a previous one. Im also mindful that the two conditions happened five years 
apart. Red Sands hasnt  presented persuasive professional evidence to support its position.
Ive weighed all this up carefully and reached  the conclusion that Red Sands hasnt done 
enough to persuade me that its more likely than not the second CCL rupture was a 
continuation of the first. Im satisfied its more likely  than not a new condition. 
And from this Ive concluded it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to apply the exclusion to the 
policy in this case. And I will be instructing Red Sands to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN45921855my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Red Sands Insurance Company  
(Europe) Limited to
pay Mrs Cs claim  in line with the policy terms around limits and excess
pay interest on any treatment costs Mrs C has paid at the simple rate of 8% per year 
from the date she made  any payment to the date it reimburses  her*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited to deduct  tax 
from this interest.  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must  give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one
Ref: DRN4592185