K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that Lloyds  Bank  PLC paid all the compensation for a mis-sold 
joint payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy to Mrs M. Mr M says Lloyds made a mistake  
in doing this and should now pay half the compensation  to him.
Background
In 2011 Mrs M complained to Lloyds about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy  was in joint 
names with Mr M and was taken  out to protect  a joint mortgage.
In January 2012 Lloyds wrote sent a letter to Mrs Ms address. The letter was addressed to 
Mr and Mrs M. The letter said that Lloyds  had upheld the complaint and that it was offering 
compensation totalling £3,426.69. The letter went on to say that a cheque  would be issued 
for that amount.
A joint cheque for £3,426.69 was then issued to Mr and Mrs M.
Mrs M telephoned  Lloyds  on 15 February  2012,  and also wrote a letter  explaining that the 
cheque could not be cashed as Mr and Mrs M did not have a joint bank account. The letter  
asked that a new cheque be sent, made  out solely to Mrs M. The letter was signed  by both 
Mr and Mrs M.
Lloyds cancelled the original cheque and sent a new one for £3,426.69 made out to Mrs M 
only. This was cashed on 2 March 2012.
In 2017 Mr M contacted  Lloyds to make a new complaint about  the sale of the PPI. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr M stating that it had already investigated the sale of the PPI, upheld the 
complaint and paid full compensation to Mrs M in 2012.
Mr M says he didnt  know that the compensation paid to Mrs M in 2012  was for the full 
amount of compensation. He thought it was only Mrs Ms share  of the compensation and this 
is why he signed  the letter authorising Lloyds to issue a cheque  made  out solely to Mrs M.
In February 2020  an adjudicator from this service  wrote to Mr and Mrs M explaining why she 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  findings, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I will explain why.
Firstly, I have looked at the offer of compensation  made by Lloyds in January 2012. When 
this type of PPI is found to have been  mis-sold  Id expect Lloyds to refund all the PPI 
premiums together  with compensatory  interest.  I can see that Lloyds calculated the 
compensation in this way. So, I am satisfied  the offer of £3,426.69 was calculated correctly.
Ref: DRN46725122Mr and Mrs Ms main  complaint is that Lloyds didnt make it clear  that the compensation 
amount of £3,426.69 represented  the total compensation rather  than only Mrs Ms half.        
Mr M says this lack of clarity led to him agreeing  to the full amount being  paid to Mrs M.
Ive thought about this, but I note the letter upholding the complaint and offering compensation 
was addressed to both Mr and Mrs M even though it was sent only to Mrs Ms address. 
I also see that the letter states the compensation is made up of a refund of all the premiums paid. 
There is nothing in the letter which refers to the compensation  as being only half the amount due.
Ive also read the letter  that Mr and Mrs M signed and sent to Lloyds requesting  that a new 
cheque be issued and made out to Mrs M only. I can see this letter  states the reason for the 
request was that My husband and I dont have  a joint bank account. 
There is nothing in the letter which I think should reasonably  have alerted Lloyds that Mr and 
Mrs M had split up and that further  enquiries should be made  before a new cheque  was 
issued. And this would  have  been reinforced  by the fact that Mr M had signed the letter  
requesting the new cheque.
While Mr M has stated that he was never  told half the compensation was his, I dont think 
Lloyds had any reason to explicitly  state this within its letter.  The letter was addressed to 
both Mr and Mrs M and made it clear it was a refund of all premiums paid plus interest.
I realise Mr M may not have been fully aware  of the potential consequences of signing  the 
letter requesting a new cheque be issued. But I dont think  Lloyds can fairly be held 
responsible for this.
It follows that I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Lloyds to issue  another  cheque  to 
Mr M for half the compensation when  it has already  paid the full amount to Mrs M with Mr Ms 
agreement.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Lloyds Bank PLC
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4672512