K821x#15complaint
Mr R complained about the transfer of his existing personal pensions to a newly opened  self-
invested personal pension (SIPP).
Its said Mr R has suffered  a loss and that St Martins Partners LLP (SMP) are responsible 
for this.
background
Mr R says he was introduced to SMP by an adviser  who had previously arranged personal  
pension plans for him. The adviser recommended Mr R should open  a SIPP and consolidate 
his pension plans,  by transferring them into this SIPP. This would then enable an investment 
to follow. Mr R says this adviser came to his home with the paperwork which  they completed 
together. The adviser then took the completed  papers  away  with him. Mr R says that the 
adviser also recommended the investment and that he followed everything he was advised 
to do.
SMP sent the application to the providers in September  2012  and a Guardian SIPP was set 
up. Transfers from Mr Rs existing pension  plans with Co-op (CIS) and Abbey Life were  
subsequently received.  The statement from Mr Rs SIPP provider captures the following 
information:
11 September 2012 SIPP opened
£36,401.49 transfer into the SIPP from CIS  on 25 September 2012
£11,337.48 transfer in from Abbey Life on 26 September  2012
£498 SIPP establishment  and annual  fee taken 9 October  2012
£1,432 IFA fees paid to the name Alternative  Asset Finance on 11 October 2012
£44,350 purchase of bond in agricultural activities on 29 October  2012
£24,849.61 transfer in from CIS on 25 January 2013
£568 IFA fee paid to the name Alternative Asset Finance on 30 January 2013
From 15 April 2013 Mr R started making monthly  contributions of £30. 
So a total of £47,738.97 was transferred from Mr Rs pension plans in September  2012. An 
investment into an unregulated overseas  bond  in agricultural activities followed (the Merco 
Bond fund). In January  2013 a further  £24,849.61 was transferred  in from a CIS plan. All 
remaining funds not invested in the bond  remained in cash.  
SMP invoiced the SIPP provider in October  2012  for £1,432, said to be for the setting up of 
the SIPP. An additional advisers  fee of £568  was paid to SMP  following the January 2013  
transfer.
A complaint was made  in November 2016 on behalf  of Mr R. This set out that SMP were the 
relevant regulated and liable party. The complaint suggested SMP  had attempted  to operate  
and service on an execution only basis; but it was said this hadnt been properly or 
appropriately completed. 
Mr Rs complaint was rejected by SMP in January 2017. They said Mr R had been dealt with 
on an execution only basis. In their final response letter  SMP  said theyd taken legal advice 
on the services being provided to the client by Alternative Asset Finance (aaf) as being 
execution only and were  confident there was no basis to the complaint.
Ref: DRN46957892It has previously  been explained  that it isnt clear to this service if the reference to legal 
advice was referring to legal  advice at the time SMP took over aaf as a trading style,  or when 
they provided Mr R (or anyone) with a service, or at a later date; such as after a complaint 
had been made. 
The background in summary (as presented by and on behalf of SMP) is that Alternative 
Asset Finance (aaf) became a trading style of SMP  on 28 August  2012 having previously 
been a trading style of Finance in Medicine Ltd. (FIM). SMP say aaf used an execution only 
business model.
SMP have  also said:
In transferring the Clients pension fund into a SIPP (Transaction) AAF were  carrying out, at 
the request of the Client, a purely  administrative service on an execution-only basis. Neither 
we nor AAF have at any time given  advice to the Client relating to the transfer of the Clients 
pension or any investments subsequently  made through the SIPP.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys definition of an execution-only transaction  is a transaction  
executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client  where the firm does not give 
advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction  and in relation  to which  the 
rules on assessment of appropriateness do not apply.
And SMP have highlighted  the guidance provided by this service relating to execution only 
business states that "clear and credible"  evidence that an investment transaction is 
execution-only is required.  They said the guidance goes on to say this is normally  provided 
in the form of an execution only notice.
SMP said aaf complied  with all relevant regulatory requirements from the outset. They told 
us that Mr R was aware on what basis the services were being provided and in their view he 
fully understood.
SMP stressed Mr R signed an execution  only notice clearly setting out that no advice would 
be given and setting  out in plain  language  what this means. SMP have said this notice was 
sent and not simply  presented at a meeting to be signed immediately. As such, they think, 
clients (Mr R) were afforded time to appreciate the implications.
It was said aaf had gone beyond the requirement to provide clear and credible evidence, 
citing three separate documents setting out that the transaction was on an execution only 
basis and setting out the consequences;  noting  these were  signed by Mr R. So they thought 
there was no basis to his representatives claim the transaction was not completed as an 
execution-only service.
SMP thought the reference by Mr Rs representatives as to an expectation to see an 
execution only statement in the clients own hand  writing using their own words,  was made 
with the benefit of hindsight. SMP  considered this may now be common practice and in line 
with subsequent decisions of the Financial Ombudsman, but it wasnt at the time of the 
transaction.
SMP also rejected  any suggestion of a failure  to comply with the regulators conduct  of 
business rules. On the basis that neither aaf nor themselves had provided any advice and so 
the rules didnt apply.
Ref: DRN46957893An adjudicator at this service  looked  at Mr Rs complaint. He thought it should be upheld.  He 
didnt accept SMP had provided a purely administrative service  on an execution-only basis. 
Adjudicators view
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  by SMPs submissions. In his view the adjudicator 
considered the regulators  Principles for Business together with information  and the 
guidance in relation to execution only business available in 2012.
The Principles for Businesses were  set out in the Financial Services  Authoritys (FSA) 
handbook and are now in the FCA handbook. The adjudicator quoted the description of 
them being  a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory 
system  (PRIN  1.1.2G). He said they applied, and continue to apply, to all firms, including  
SMP. 
The adjudicator thought  Principles 1, 2, 6 and 8 were of particular relevance here and he set 
them out. In summary:
Principle 1  integrity   A firm must conduct its business with integrity.
Principle 2  Skill,  care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client.
He also set out detail he considered relevant on the topic of execution  only business. And 
said the term Execution only is used  by the financial services regulator  to describe sales  
where a consumer has requested a specific investment and has chosen  not to receive 
advice at that time.
The adjudicators view was that the regulatory  framework allows  for such work as there  are 
people who know enough about investments to make their own decisions and/or who do not 
want to explain their circumstances to investment companies.
To an extent  SMP went on to agree and reflect this conclusion in some later submissions.
The adjudicator didnt accept Mr R could be described in this way. He also set out that the 
FSA, the regulator  at the time, described  Execution only as:
... a transaction  executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where  the firm 
does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction  and in relation 
to which  the rules on assessment of appropriateness (COBS 10) do not apply.
The adjudicator provided the same guidance  on execution only work that has also been 
stressed by SMP; that a business needs to provide  clear and credible  evidence  that an 
investment transaction is execution only to avoid  the regulatory  obligations that apply when 
providing investment  advice.
Ref: DRN46957894The requirement for execution only notices had been clarified by PIA Regulatory  Update 33 
in the context of pensions  and the adjudicator considered it reasonable and usual to 
conclude the required standard  of evidence is the same for other  investments. He set out 
what this service often considers when asked to decide whether the required standards  were 
satisfied. This includes looking at the rules  that were  in place at the time of the transaction.  
As was later acknowledged by SMP, this information  is available  on our website.
In summary  the clear and credible  evidence that a business usually provides is in the form 
of an execution only  notice. This is a statement signed by the consumer, agreeing that:
 they are aware the transaction is execution only;
 they have not asked  for or received advice;
 it is their decision alone to take out the investment; and
 the business is taking  no responsibility for the products suitability.
But that when  we consider complaints involving  execution only sales, its fair to begin  by 
taking into account  the consumers background. For example  where they dont appear to 
have an investment history and there  is no apparent connection to the investment industry, 
then wed usually expect  a case will usually require  further investigation.
At the time he issued his view in 2017,  the adjudicator thought SMP was receiving business 
from unauthorised introducers.  And the adjudicator thought it was reasonable to think SMP 
should have known the consumers would not have  received advice from regulated 
individuals.
The adjudicator thought  SMP ought to have known that pension  transfers  can be complex 
and few retail customers have enough knowledge  to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
pension transfers  without receiving advice. This would include how the fund will be invested,  
as without a SIPP here,  there could be no investment. And he thought  SMP  ought to have 
known that consumers like Mr R would  be at risk of suffering a financial loss if Mr R either  
transferred a pension  without  taking any advice at all or transferred after taking advice from 
someone not authorised to give such advice.
So the adjudicator concluded  SMP  should be liable for any loss suffered by Mr R; as he 
thought they hadnt  done  enough.  He didnt think SMP had been right in processing  Mr Rs 
SIPP and transfer  application without doing more. He thought  at the very least SMP should  
have contacted Mr R, to be satisfied, to a reasonable level,  that Mr R was aware what  the 
term execution only meant and that he was clear on the consequences of this. 
In the absence of this, the adjudicator thought SMP  ought to have refused to accept the 
SIPP and transfer  applications. And he thought  if they had done  he didnt think  an 
investment into the bond would have followed and he doubted the transfers would have 
gone ahead. The adjudicator concluded it was more likely Mr Rs plans would have 
remained with their original providers. He thought it unlikely Mr R would have approached 
another business and proposed or insisted on opening a SIPP and transferring his plans on 
an execution only basis; let alone  going on to make  the investment.
Ref: DRN46957895The adjudicator said that if Mr R had sought regulated advice provided in the usual form, it 
was most likely he would have been  told that transferring his existing plans and investing 
most of his funds in a single unregulated asset  was unsuitable for him. And the adjudicator 
concluded Mr R was likely to have  followed  such  advice.
So his final view was that if SMP  had acted  as they should have, no transfer would have 
taken place; and Mr R would not have suffered a loss. The adjudicator set out what he 
thought SMP should do next.
SMP didnt  accept the adjudicators view.  They sent in some  reasoning  and material  in 
support. At this stage the material provided and relied on by SMP  was:
A document headed  aaf alternative asset finance- Execution  only SIPP facility
This starts with the information:
 Alternative  Asset  Finance has been  set up to offer a highly competitive service for 
our clients.  AAF are able to consolidate  all of your various pension pots and bring 
them under one roof thus enabling you to purchase  your chosen unique  investment 
as discussed with your Product Specialist.  
Alternative Asset Finance is a trading style of St Martins Partners LLP who are 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, however  the work 
carried out by Alternative Asset Finance is carried out on an execution only basis  and 
all investments are subject to this effect.
The document then sets out the fees and payment arrangements. This includes the 
hope a clients  journey  with them will be smooth over the next few months but the 
details of the cancellation fee should the client withdraw from the process.
The bottom of each page has a document reference  which reads here as Pensions  
Technical 6 April 2012 .
The remainder of the document sets out some of the history  and workings  of SIPPs.
Save for the last section  headed in relation to their client  agreement  on arranging  
execution only SIPPS. This document sets out that alternative asset finance is a 
trading style of St Martins  Partners LLP and gives a contact email  address of SMPs 
adviser as provided  to this service. And a phone number which  is understood to be 
the London SMP phone  number.
This is followed  by a short summation on regulation, communications, services, and 
payments and other details.
The copy  of the agreement supplied to us by SMP  at this stage (and on which we 
were asked to rely) was blank and unsigned.  As was the addendum piece entitled 
Points to Remember  which SMP have later pointed to as being  an important 
document to support their submissions that all services they provided were  on an 
execution only basis.
At this stage SMP also provided  us with the following:
Ref: DRN46957896An email (hereafter known as the FSA email).
This email has been provided in respect  of Mr Rs case [as well as in relation to a 
number of other complaints]. In summary  its said to show the regulator had 
approved the relevant business  model  and how this was implemented.
What has been  provided is a photocopy  of an email  header from a man with an 
apparent Financial Services Authority (FSA)  email address, addressed to several 
parties into an email dated  1 March 2012.
The FSA email provided  is an apparent continuation of an ongoing correspondence.  
The main  body of the email text said to be from the FSA and relied  on in submissions 
for SMP in summary, thanks a person (who has the same first name as one of the 
Directors of FIM) for the acknowledgement and response and says they now intend 
to close the matter. It goes on to say they intend to:
allow the firm to put in place the new procedures etc. we have discussed  and 
agreed. As I have previously mentioned given the business model and the concerns 
we had, we may choose to review the firms progress in this matter in the future and 
you should ensure  that all documentation to support the changes  made  is retained  
for this purpose.
I would again  take this opportunity to remind  you that given the execution only 
business model and the relationship with AAA you need to be comfortable that there  
is no regulatory risk to your firm. We have discussed how you can do this and the 
ongoing due diligence, and I am pleased to note your comments that you will involve 
..[a named  compliance  business].. in reviews  to provide further external challenge. 
My one final comment on the process  is to consider the risk that the client  may 
contravene current pensions regulations or HMRC  rules as a result  of the transaction  
and how you ensure the client  is aware of this risk.
Its said this email shows the FSA were aware  of the work being undertaken and business 
model of aaf and had approved it. And so, by inference, SMP should have had no concern 
and/ or indeed the regulator approved the work and approach.
This service hasnt been told when SMP  say they first saw this email.
SMP have  sent in submissions and comments intended to provide group responses it 
appears to more than one complaint  made against them.  I have looked at Mr Rs complaint  
on its own merits; but where it appears  to me to be intended, I have taken account of all 
SMP and their representatives have said. But I have stressed the need  to directly identify 
where a submission is made in respect  of a particular complaint.
An email  was provided to us by SMP  (dated 8 December 2016). This service  understands 
this email to have been provided by SMP to demonstrate what  information was known by 
SMP about aaf and their work and to show their efforts in obtaining  information  for this 
service. I have  previously indicated this understanding,  and havent been  told this is wrong.  
This email is headed as having been sent by one of the named Directors  of aaf and is 
addressed to two people  (both Directors of SMP and one of whom,  we understood, was the 
original SMP compliance officer). The email subject is aaf.
Ref: DRN46957897The writer  of the email confirms he is happy to provide the requested information; and goes 
on to say:
AAF were originally approached by Alternative Asset Alliance,  who had been known to us 
for a number of years, to provide an administrative service to their agents,  who wished to 
provide their clients with access to various alternative unregulated investments for their 
pension funds. 
This could  only be achieved if an (unregulated) SIPP was set up on their behalf and this was 
the only service that they required.  This is because prior to January  2013, SIPP  plans were  
then unregulated, and therefore  it was possible  for an individual to make  their decisions for 
their own SIPP funds,  following their own research or discussions with agent(s) representing  
available investments.
Because in order  to achieve the investment  of their choice they had to have their pension 
funds within  a SIPP, at this time AAF agreed  to provide an administrative facility such  that 
anyone wished to transfer their pension funds into a SIPP  for the purpose  of such 
investment, they could  achieve this.
We were however, always totally transparent that we would only provide this if we were  
explicitly requested  to do this on an execution only basis, such that no advice  was requested  
and no advice was provided by AAF at any point .
The email  goes on to set out what the writer says was the regulators  meaning of execution  
only. And says that as would be expected by the regulator they never met any of the clients  
and were only contacted via their agent.
The email  goes on to say that due to our cautiousness in respect of those who might seek  
redress apparently  in relation to performance disappointment,  they ensured that anyone 
wishing to use this service provided  us with written documentation confirming that they 
understood the term execution only, they agreed  with its terms, and they wished  to proceed 
on this basis.
The writer  of the email says you have copies of each of these files that were placed  via St 
Martins Partners,  you were given all these at the time and subsequently you have been  
given them all again  on a memory stick.
The email  then suggests that theyd  also taken the precaution of obtaining the written 
opinion of the regulator approving their systems  and paperwork. It might be inferred this is a 
reference to the 1 March 2012  email  as both this email and the FSA email  were provided to 
us by SMP  at the same time, and there is nothing else that might be similarly  regarded  that 
has been provided. Having previously indicated  this, we havent been told this inference  is 
wrong.
The writer  goes on to reiterate his views on the service provided,  and how liability and 
regulation lies in relation  to aaf, and why they have  never needed to have any professional 
liability insurance for their administrative  service.
Ive seen there is also reference  to one of SMPs directors having been  trying to 
unsuccessfully contact  the writer of the email. The writer of the email says that aaf have 
been closed for over a year, although  the email address was kept live for a further year but 
Ref: DRN46957898has now been closed.  He suggests he will assist but also suggests SMP have all the 
information. 
Summary of SMPs further  submissions
SMP and their representatives have sent in a stream of submissions and queries. These 
have also been  punctuated by requests  for further time. In summary its said by or on behalf  
of SMP that:
The procedure and documentation for the carrying of the execution only transfer  was 
set up with the knowledge and approval of the FSA. And they relied  on the FSA email 
to support this.
Clients clearly requested aaf ceased  dealing with them after completion  of the 
transfers. And clients were informed  in simple terms of what  they might  be giving up 
by using this route  and given generic information  on SIPPS to help them understand,  
which was [SMP  said] as per the FSA guidelines.
SMP  acknowledged a number  of complaints had been made, but that some of these 
had been made outside the time SMP say they took on alternative  asset  finance  
[aaf] as a trading style (28 August  2012).
SMP highlight that prior to 28 August 2012  aaf was used as the trading style of FIM 
(a regulated financial advice firm). And it has been  said this service should look to 
this firm (who  are no longer trading or in operation) or the SIPP provider to meet any 
liability for Mr Rs loss; not that SMP  agree that any business did anything  wrong.
The register  also shows Alternative  Asset Finance as having  been a previous name 
of SMP from 28 August 2012.  
SMP  say the regulator has highlighted concerns about business  being obtained via 
unregulated introducers  and how liability may follow from this. They have suggested 
to us the language  used by the regulator implies a potential liability  falling  onto a 
SIPP provider and not SMP who had no knowledge of any investments.
In early 2018 we were  made aware that SMP had appointed representatives to make  
submissions to this service on their behalf. These also followed over an extended period of 
time. 
We were later informed SMP had appointed  a new, part-time compliance officer. He also 
sent in a number of submissions. In addition he told us about contacting the people / person 
behind aaf to get answers to our questions and waiting for their reply  (which it appears was 
never forthcoming) and other reasons for the need  for further time. Including requests for this 
service to provide  copies  of all views  issued,  details of complaints  made  and other 
documents and of a review apparently taking place. Its understood he left SMP in late 2018.
In a letter dated 14 September 2018 SMPs representatives sent in a response specifically 
directed towards  Mr Rs complaint.
In it they said (in summary):
Ref: DRN46957899It wasnt alleged in anything they had seen  that Mr R had been  advised on 
investment by SMP.  So they took issue with what the adjudicator  concluded in his 
view.
They said the information provided  in the adjudicators view mainly  came from this 
services website and so wouldnt have been  available at the time the SIPP was set 
up. And they said in any event, failing to follow good practice  and guidelines as set 
out by this service,  couldnt amount to any liability on SMPs part.
Mr R had instructed FIM and not SMP. And they said all regulatory responsibility  for 
aaf lay with FIM from 7 March 2011 until 28 August 2012.
And a subsequent adviser cant be held responsible for any failings of a previous 
adviser. A subsequent adviser isnt required to review (or not immediately)  previous 
advice. Unless anything  has been  agreed under a retainer, which it was said on 
behalf of SMP, this hadnt been  the case here.
So where a client  agreed something  in conjunction with FIM, no liability  could attach 
to SMP.
It was said that based on the documentation:
Mr R had been introduced to FIM and not SMP in June/  July 2012.
Mr R instructed FIM on 9 July 2012 to set up the SIPP,  obtain  transfer  papers and 
proceed with the transfers, at which point the firms role would  cease.
On 26 July 2012 the relevant papers were sent to Mr R.
On 27 July 2012 Mr R signed  the agreement for the execution  only transfer.
And SMPs representatives sent the papers they said they relied on to demonstrate  this.
SMP and/ or their representatives  concluded Mr R signed the further execution only 
statement and points  to remember  document at the time of the transfer  documentation  being 
provided and suggested  this happened  on 6 September 2012. Its submitted this date,  being  
only a week after SMP took over the trading style of aaf, was insufficient to expect SMP  to 
have known or done anything further.
And its said this service has often recommended three months  to be a reasonable period of 
time to be taken for a firm to review a new client.
It was said the fact SMP took a final fee for these  transactions  was irrelevant. This 
was part of the acquisition agreement of aaf; and not an indication  of acceptance of 
past liability.
The submissions then set out an understanding of the regulatory  position and what would 
have been understood  at the time in 2012. They said the primary concern of the regulator 
related to firms using claims of execution  only to hide behind  or not sufficiently explaining 
how services (execution only/ non-advised)  were  being provided. It wasnt a concern about 
execution only services  per se. And a copy of an article from City Wire 2012 was attached; 
which it was said was a useful guide  on execution  only work. This had followed the banning  
Ref: DRN469578910of an adviser who sought to use the term execution only to mis-lead clients  when advice 
had been provided.
It was said that Citywire gave sensible reasons why someone might  want  to proceed  on an 
execution only basis:
Wish of the client to make their own decision
A desire  not to share personal financial details with their adviser
A preference not to pay the additional  costs that would be associated  with such work
And it was said SMP had done all that was suggested as necessary based  on the 
guidelines. Clear  and credible explanations had been provided to Mr R and a written 
agreement provided  by Mr R.
A copy of this services  update from early  2006 was also attached which  included 
commentary on execution  only work  and the PIA Update 33 from 1997.
SMP went on to highlight the further  steps taken by the regulator and within the industry  and 
referred to a 2013  Moneymarketing  report of a round table discussion held with the industry.  
SMP said it was right to adopt the commentary  and approach set out by the industry 
commentator in the article:
"In practice, the customers  perception is a very key determinant of whether it is advice or 
not. One of our lawyers, within what was the FSA,  said to me "If it looks and feels  like 
advice, it probably is advice", and that is actually quite a good test".
And they said:
This fully ties in with our comments  above  that the test to be applied  in determining  whether 
or not SMP has any liability in connection with its 2012 execution-only business  is whether or 
not Mr R would have  been clear that he was not receiving advice or would have thought  he 
was being advised. The question is not what was it established was the degree  of financial 
experience of the client.
Its said there was no way Mr R could think what he received looked like or felt like advice.
The submissions then set out some  of the contents of documents  relied upon. In addition  it 
was suggested  that even  if the complaint was upheld any redress should  be capped  up to 
the time of the bond investment; and said this was clearly Mr R acting and investing  on his 
own initiative and responsibility.
Overall its said that Mr R had discussions with a third party and it isnt fair for SMP  to be 
held liable  just because aaf filed papers several  weeks after joining SMP.
Attached to the submissions was included:
A signed copy of aafs statement for an execution only client  and points to 
remember  documents. Purportedly signed  and dated 3 September  2012  by Mr R 
and his wife.
Ref: DRN469578911This document had the generic apparent internal draft reference of January 2012  and 
the contact details that have been  associated with aaf.
In addition a signed copy of a document said to be the client  agreement for 
arranging execution  only transactions  was also attached. This purports to have  been  
signed by Mr R on 27 July 2012.
All pages of this document  have the generic apparent internal draft reference 
client  agreement use with SCDD V2- 0110 August  2012;  save for the last page with 
the purported  signed and dated entry which has January 2012 as the document  ref 
date.
Typed letter dated 9 July 2012  said to be from Mr R to aaf and said to confirm  his 
instruction on an execution only and non-advised basis to set up a SIPP. It also 
confirms instruction to act on transfer  and that aafs role is to cease on transfer.  It 
sets out that Mr R understands that once this happens it will be his responsibility to 
make investment decisions once the funds are in the wrapper. The letter  also sets 
out that a signed  letter  of authority is attached.
Letter dated 26 July 2012 from aaf to Mr R. Confirming sending of the transfer 
documents and asking for Mr Rs signature  to enable the transfers to proceed and 
asking him to also sign the letter  of authority.
This letter is signed aaf as a trading style of Finance in Medicine.
Invoice from aaf to the SIPP  provider re Mr R Case 388 dated 5 October  2012.
This invoiced £1,432  for setting up the SIPP. It is signed with thanks E&OE. My 
understanding is this acronym  is commonly understood to mean errors and 
omissions excepted  I am not sure how this applies or was intended to apply here.
The invoice provides payment details of a Barclays  account. The address of the 
business is given.
The title of the firm is printed  as Alternative Asset Finance is a trading style of St 
Martins Partners LLP with the ref number provided as 4002376.
This number  is the Companies House registration number for Finance in Medicine. 
On 9 November  2018 SMP sent us some further documents.  They  said this bundle  was the 
case file we had been requesting. The attachments comprised of:
A confirmation of identity document where introduction  was completed by a regulated  
firm containing Mr Rs personal  details  and said to have been completed by an FIM 
Director (associated also with aaf) on 9 July 2012.  The introducing firm is said to be 
Finance in Medicine  with the address seen elsewhere. The regulator reference  
number is given  as 469095 (the FIM number).
A further  confirmation  of identity document where introduction  was completed by the 
same individual linked to FIM and aaf as above, a regulated firm confirming Mr Rs 
details and said to have been completed by on 16 October 2012. Here  the 
Ref: DRN469578912introducing firm is said to be St Martins Partners  LLP with their regulator reference  
number of 537904.
Copy of signed  statement  for execution only client and points to remember 
(previously supplied)
Copy of purported letters of 9 and 26 July 2012  and invoice dated  5 October 2012 
(previously supplied).
Following this correspondence we reminded SMP again of material wed previously 
requested and set out some of the history and what was asked for.
SMP have  more recently told us that of the commission  money received from the SIPP  
provider, most of this money wasnt technically paid to SMP  or any of their employees. Its 
said the people  behind aaf took the larger proportion  of all commission  and went on to pay a 
proportion (12.5% is implied from the spreadsheet  provided)  to SMP.
It appears to be said by SMP that an individual who used to run FIM, continued to be 
associated with/ working under the name of aaf, after it was taken over/  used by SMP. But 
SMP dont  appear  to entirely accept  this individual worked for or was associated  with SMP.
SMP have  also more recently  (February 2019)  provided an email which they say was sent to 
SMP. This email appears to have  been  sent by aaf email address to a named  individual 
(apparently an SMP  director) on 19 September 2012 at 16:28. Another person is copied in. It 
was sent with the subject header  in bold.
It reads:
Hi.. I attach  a spreadsheet of all cases that have  been submitted under your FSA number   
these will not be paid though for a couple  of months  as it takes  time to filter through  is this 
what you are looking  for? Once  the cases have been paid and completed  we will forward 
to you electronic file for your records.
Best wishes.
We have been  told little more about  the context of this email. A spreadsheet,  that its said 
was attached to this email has also been  provided.  This spreadsheet contains details under 
the following  headers; case numbers,  client names, SIPP  provider, full commission,  SMP 
commission @ 12.5% and date documents sent to SIPP provider.
SMPs representatives also sent in further  queries. We had previously explained that this 
service considered these  queries mainly central to issues of merit on the complaints  and that 
as such didnt intend to answer the queries in an email. We had previously extended 
timetables and requests for information,  but felt that parties had had adequate time.
Provisional decision
On 23rd April 2019 I issued a provisional decision on this case.  In this I set out a summary of 
a number of the matters  raised and why I intended  to uphold the complaint. I also set out 
what I thought  SMP ought to be required to do.
SMP responses
Ref: DRN469578913On behalf of SMP, my provisional decision  was rejected. It was thought there  was little to be 
gained in dealing  with every point  and didnt accept the relevance of all the contents. It was 
felt this service had been determined since the first adjudicators view to regard SMP as non-
compliant as opposed to focussing on another business for liability.  
They continued to stress two points:
FIM were responsible for the relevant advice (or failure to give advice).
The relevant  execution only business was compliant and applied  the regulatory  
expectations at the time.
It was said that they didnt  think  Id been  sufficiently clear about why Mr R ought to be 
considered SMPs client in respect  of the SIPP being set up and how their activities  meant 
SMP ought to bear responsibility for all losses suffered.
They didnt think the chronology supported what Id said.  And they continued to say that any 
advice on transferring pension arrangements and making arrangements wasnt  given by 
SMP (nor did they think it looked like anyone at aaf had advised either). It was after this, they 
say, Mr R decided to set up a SIPP and transfer his funds in conjunction with the AAF 
advisers under the auspices of FIM.
Its accepted aaf advisers submitted documentation  under the auspices  of SMP; but they 
dont think this gives rise to liability on behalf of SMP. They  say the breach or negligence 
had already happened when the decisions were taken (with or without  advice). And 
responsibility for this remained with FIM.
Its said that I ought not to uphold this complaint because to do so would be in contravention 
of the law. Its suggested the consequence  of my decision is to decide that aaf (under  the 
auspices of SMP)  were in breach/ negligent by failing to rectify an original  breach and 
reversing a decision to transfer and enter into a SIPP.  
So its suggested that at most, a failure  here wasnt a new breach. And so any failure of a 
professional to advise  on its own breach, doesnt amount to a further breach (a headnote of 
a Court of Appeal decision  was provided).
Therefore, its said, this leaves only a single breach, (that of the original aaf/FIM  breach)  that 
its said formed the basis for the decision  being  made to transfer.  They say its the decision 
to agree with Mr R to set up the SIPP to accommodate the transfer that is the negligent  act 
or omission.  There is not a further  breach  by aaf/SMP  and ..no basis  on which to attach 
liability to SMP.
Further or alternatively, its also said, that at no point did SMP enter into any form of retainer 
or agreement with Mr R that included the revisiting of previous decisions and / or the acts,  
errors or omissions of a previous advisers  (FIM). And, as per the judgment theyd referred to. 
There was no duty on SMP to review a decision previously taken by Mr R in the absence of 
an express retainer on this. So again, its said, liability lies with FIM.
Ref: DRN469578914my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what I have seen, I havent 
been persuaded to change my thinking from my provisional decision.
Overall I tend to agree  that SMP didnt do everything they ought reasonably to have been 
expected to have done. And in my view, were  it not for their acts and omissions, I dont think  
Mr R would have opened a SIPP or transferred his personal pension plans from their original  
providers, or go on to make the highly risky,  unregulated overseas investment.
I have read and considered everything  that has been provided to us with real care. But I 
hope it will be understood that its not practical  to set everything  out in my decision. 
This service is an alternative  to the court process.  Its intended  to be informal and is intended  
to be accessible to all, including those who are not legally or financially qualified for example. 
A number  of submissions were made  to this service by SMP and their representatives, which  
appeared to relate to a number of complaints made  by different individuals.  There  are some 
shared characteristics between some  of these complaints; but as Ive previously  highlighted,  
I consider each case on its own merits. So I asked that care was taken to ensure it was clear 
enough when  submissions were intended  to be applied to a particular complaint. I dont think 
this was always as clear as it could  be; however I have considered everything that has been 
provided and applied it where  it has appeared  to be so intended. 
In reaching my current thinking I have taken into account everything that has been said and 
provided to this service.  I have also seen that a number  of my queries and requests for 
further information went unanswered. I have only drawn inferences from this where it has 
appeared reasonable for me to so do. 
I think Mr Rs complaint  has properly been set up against SMP. I understand some of the 
submissions made suggested  it shouldnt have  been and that this service ought not to look 
at a complaint  made against SMP. I dont agree, I accept Mr R was a consumer and a client 
of SMPs, during  the relevant time, and certainly from 28 August 2012. It doesnt appear  to 
me, having looked at what was said following my provisional decision that SMP  disagree 
with this.
I think Mr R is properly categorized as having  been  a client  receiving the services of SMP on 
matters pertaining to the setting up of an investment.  This involved a SIPP being opened 
and funds being transferred; as well as the investment that followed. Here there was a later 
transfer of further  funds.  And Mr R was reasonably entitled to expect and receive a level of 
service and care that I think fell short.
In addition I have  seen a letter from the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) 
in respect of a claim made to that service along similar lines to this one made about SMP, 
about FIM. This letter sets out FSCS finding  that they couldnt consider the claim, as it ought  
properly to be made to SMP. This letter  has previously been seen by SMP. I accept this 
letter was not provided in respect of Mr Rs case;  nor was it a finding made in respect of Mr 
Rs case. I have also seen what has been  said by SMP about  liability  attaching to a SIPP  
provider.
Ref: DRN469578915I am not drawing any conclusions about any liability that may or may not properly attach to 
people involved in FIM or any other  firm or individual or provider. And there is nothing to 
follow as a consequence of my decision  about Mr Rs complaint about SMP that should 
prevent SMP pursuing anyone they may wish to.
Ive seen that SMPs submissions against  the liability of a subsequent adviser for any failings 
of a previous adviser; have included their view that a subsequent  adviser  isnt required to 
review (or not immediately) previous advice. SMP expanded on this on more than one 
occasion. They told us that this service  often concludes three months is a reasonable time 
for a new adviser  to review a new client. And have also gone on to add this wasnt the case  
unless anything had been agreed  under  a retainer. It was said on behalf  of SMP, this hadnt 
been the case here. 
I have gone on to look at whats said further  below. But in respect of any retainer, or 
anything agreed,  I think it could be a reasonable understanding  of the thrust  of some of 
SMPs submissions to now be to suggest SMP had considered the issue  of liability  for 
ongoing clients or previous advice when taking over/ taking on aaf and their work and 
clients. I think this would  have been  the usual and expected (and prudent)  approach.  But 
despite repeated  requests from this service,  we have never been informed of the 
arrangements and agreements by which SMP came to take over/use aaf as a trading style 
and their work.
I would consider it to be unlikely  that a regulated firm could consider they were properly 
fulfilling their duties  when taking over or taking on a business, business  model  and client 
book if they didnt review  the nature of the work, clients  and reach an agreement on any 
ongoing liability.
I have also previously highlighted that I havent seen anything that makes  me think  SMP 
took any steps to introduce themselves to Mr R (or any of the so- purported  aaf clients)  as 
new advisers; let alone provided any contact or service information. I am left overall with the 
impression that SMPs  relationship with Mr R was kept very much at a distance. I cant see 
anything that suggests to me Mr R would have necessarily known or understood who his 
actual advisers were when SMP were in place.
Ive looked at what was done by SMP and under the auspices  of SMP. I have concluded that 
there was a model of work being used here, of which  SMP  played an integral  role. Mr R was 
a client of SMPs and the work  done  for him was done in furtherance of this model of work.  I 
understand SMP havent addressed some of the points previously made about the 
regulatory duties  owed to Mr R (or others). But I think they were required to act in his best 
interests and they failed  to do this. I think it was or would have been  sufficiently  clear  that 
there were areas that ought  to have attracted real concern.  Due to the nature of the model 
and what I think was known here,  I dont  accept that its reasonable or fair to conclude SMP  
ought not to be responsible for things done for their client within  such  a short space of time 
after Mr R became their client. 
It appears to be said by SMP that an individual who used to run FIM, continued to be 
associated with the model used under the name of aaf, after it was taken over/  used by 
SMP. SMP didnt appear to me to entirely accept this individual worked  for or was 
associated with SMP. But I dont think this distinction  can be made  out, based on what 
happened.
Ref: DRN469578916I think SMP  played a sufficient role in the activities that led to a SIPP being started in Mr Rs 
name and his funds  being  transferred into it, that they should reasonably bear responsibility 
for any loss sustained. Without SMPs service and role it wouldnt have happened.  I accept 
the reason the SIPP was opened  was with a view to enabling Mr Rs funds to be transferred 
in to go on to make  the investment that later followed. The work cant  be said to have be 
done and completed under the mantle of FIM. 
I dont accept Mr R can reasonably be described as a true execution only client.  This was 
part of a model used and the models generic  documents said to demonstrate  Mr R was an 
execution only client tend to support  my thinking. I dont consider the evidence provided 
meets the clear  and credible test. It doesnt use Mr Rs words for example, indeed Mr R is 
one of a number of clients  where the same  words and documents  were used. I dont think it 
is a credible submission Mr R was in a position to conduct or direct these steps on an 
execution only basis, and I dont  think thats  what happened here. I dont accept the 
hallmarks of what Id expect to see, for true execution only work,  are present. I think  there 
was enough for SMP to have  been alerted. IN any event I tend to think SMP were  aware  of 
the model and work.
We have been  told that at the time Mr R made these arrangements he was in his late fifties, 
married with no children.  He had an outstanding  mortgage  and no other pension 
arrangements. Weve also been told he had no savings and no previous  investment 
experience; and that he had debts of around £2,000. 
Ive also seen the SIPP application form set out some personal  details of Mr R at the time.  It 
suggested he was aged 58 and a working  as a store manager earning £28,000 a year. He 
intended to retire at 65 and was married, and his wife was his nominated beneficiary.
On the face of it, Mr R was not someone who I would  expect  to be acting on and choosing 
an execution only service.  It appears to me to be highly unsuitable based on my 
understanding of Mr R and his circumstances at the time. Theres  nothing  that makes me 
think he had any relevant expert experience;  nor that he had any desire  to keep his personal 
financial circumstances private.
I looked with real care at the documents provided by and on behalf of SMP.  Because  it 
seems to me they are really at the centre of whether Mr R was an execution only client.
As part of my considerations I am asked to accept  the FSA email indicates  the regulator  at 
the time approved the business model used by aaf (this seems  to me to be suggested to 
include the documents and overall approach).
I dont accept thats a reasonable interpretation  of the FSA email. I have repeatedly asked 
SMP to provide  me with more information about this email, including  the complete thread. 
Nothing further has been provided; albeit I accept it might be that the trail may have only 
included aaf personnel and that this took place prior to SMP officially  taking  on aaf. Equally I 
would expect SMP to have asked for more  information; particularly if they intended  to rely on 
it.
In relation to the FSA email, it isnt clear to me when  this email was provided  to SMP or their 
representatives; but I find it difficult to reasonably conclude this email  would have  been  the 
only information requested by, or provided to, any business taking on a financial advice 
business or portfolio of ongoing  work  and clients. I cant conclude this would  have been  
reasonable or sufficient. 
Ref: DRN469578917I dont accept the inferences  I am asked to draw from the email.  I dont  consider it 
reasonable or likely  to accept this email, the FSA email,  as provided to this service, should 
be understood to approve of the model used by aaf/ SMP.
Having carefully balanced  whats said and how it has been  presented  to this service, I think 
its reasonable to think that SMP  have  asked me to accept they knew what  the aaf business 
model was. I think SMP have based many  of their submissions on the basis  that the 
business model was a sound, compliant and approved model.
For completeness there has been reference  to the people behind aaf leaving SMP in 2013 
when the regulator sent out further guidance. We were also told that when the aaf people  left 
SMP in 2013  they took records and/ or documentation with them.  However we havent  
received anything further of substance on this issue since we asked  about  this and why this 
had been allowed.  I cant conclude SMP  acted  properly in allowing  this or knowing this had 
happened if this is a sustained submission or explanation. As it hasnt been referred to in 
later submissions, I dont  know if it is sustained.
It is potentially inconsistent with information  suggested in the email  dated 9 November 2016 
provided to this service  by SMP.  In this email someone purporting  to write on behalf of aaf 
suggested SMP were  provided with electronic copies of all documents/files  at the time and 
that they have  been provided with further copies. Nothing further was sent to this service 
following my provisional decision on this.
Primarily I dont  think its a reasonable inference to say the regulator approved of the 
business model and what  was being done.  Not only do I not have any information on what 
the regulator had been provided with, I dont know what  the regulator  was told the FIM model 
was. Nor do I think the body of the email  can be said to be approving of whatever has been 
discussed, I think new procedures to approach a business model had been agreed and were  
to be put in place. I accept there  is reference  to there being an execution only model, but the 
writer of the email specifically highlights the potential for a regulatory  risk, in addition to other  
risks. And without further information I dont think there  is anything  I can satisfactorily 
conclude about  business models,  proposals and agreements.
In any event its impossible to know whether the model apparently being discussed in the 
email, was the same as the one used  by SMP.
Ive also seen the FSA mail purports to refer to the intended use of an external compliance 
and support firm to review; nothing  has been  provided in respect of this. This tends to 
highlight my overall concern about  how SMP can to a satisfactory level conclude  they 
complied with their duties in respect  of due diligence.
In my provisional decision,  I highlighted references made to AAA and not aaf. Nothing  
further was supplied to me about  this.
My thinking  on this is supported by the email Ive seen and referred to above, dated  8 
December 2016.  SMP  provided this to us as part of their knowledge and explanation on the 
work done by aaf: In it, it appears someone  purporting to have knowledge about aaf says:
AAF were originally approached by Alternative Asset Alliance,  who had been known to us 
for a number of years, to provide an administrative service to their agents,  who wished to 
Ref: DRN469578918provide their clients with access to various alternative unregulated investments for their 
pension fund.
I previously explained  I think its reasonable to infer AAA were  Alternative Asset Alliance. 
AAA were  the Developers agents for the unregulated overseas investment the Rimondi 
Grand. This was the alternative investment  on Mr Rs SIPP application form being 
considered as well as the bond. In relation to Mr R I havent seen the developers  information  
on the Merco  Bond,  but taking into account whats said about aafs  business model overall, I 
think its more likely  than not that the FSA email  refers to AAA and aafs knowledge that the 
SIPPs were to be set up to accept funds in and thus enable unregulated investments to 
follow.
There was nothing in the response  I received to my provisional decision that addressed my 
thinking on this issue. I think aaf were  aware the clients being dealt with under this work had 
been recommended  unregulated investments and had been advised on what  to do to enable 
these investments to be made. The work  undertaken was done with the intention of assisting 
this. This included the completion of various documentation; some  of which I have  no doubt 
involves the documents provided  to us by SMP. I think SMP were  integral in enabling this to 
take place. Aaf were SMP from 28 August  2012.  SMP took responsibility  for what  was done 
and even if it was accurate  (which I dont necessarily accept) to conclude  SMP didnt know  
what the group of people characterised as the aaf group  were  doing; they ought reasonably 
to have understood or suspected and enquired further about  this. There isnt enough for me 
to conclude that aaf and SMP directly  advised; and the evidence tends to suggest the model 
being used, involved  direct contact being  made  by unregulated parties. But SMP did work 
and played a significant and sufficient role in relation to the setting up of a SIPP  and an 
investment for Mr R. And they didnt  do what they should have done. The work and Mr R 
cant properly be described execution only.
SMP at certain times referred to having no knowledge of any investments. This is 
inconsistent here with what was entered on Mr Rs SIPP application  form. This form was 
completed under SMP. And set out the names  of the two alternative unregulated  
investments that the funds would be used  to invest in.
Albeit I appreciate  the thrust of the submission might be a repetition of SMPs  apparent  
approach to distance themselves overall from aaf and the suggestion they can be 
distinguished from aaf even after 28 August 2019. I dont accept this. 
Additionally when SMP contacted us with a copy of the FSA email  in August 2017 and their 
submissions, they attached a copy of a 12 page document entitled  aaf Execution only SIPP 
facility. I understood  from the correspondence this service was asked to infer this document  
had been provided to and approved  by the regulator. I havent seen anything that enables 
me to conclude this is correct.
I think this document  is inconsistent with other  submissions. This 12 page document  sets out 
that aaf is a trading style of SMP.  So if this was the document submitted to and purportedly 
approved by the regulator (prior to the supposed regulators email of March 2012), aaf was 
using the name SMP to the regulator and was using it before late August 2012. 
I note also the use on the version  provided to us that includes the SMP advisers direct email  
address at SMP  and the SMP phone number.  So it seems more likely to me than not, that if 
this was the document being used prior to late August 2012 it would be likely SMP might  
have received some enquiries. There is a further inconsistency  as the notes at the bottom  of 
Ref: DRN469578919the 12 page document set out this is a generic document entitled  Pensions  Technical 6 April 
2012. So this also tends to suggest SMP were already linked with aaf in April 2012.
I didnt receive any responses  to this thinking  from my provisional decision.  I can see other  
potential explanations as to how SMPs details were  on a draft of this document. But this still 
wouldnt explain how SMP  would  be aware some version of the document  had been  
supplied to the regulator (based on what Ive seen). It also demonstrates the importance and 
relevance of SMPs role in transactions as part of the model.
There has been some suggestion  that SMP  didnt  have any real understanding  of what  aaf, 
under the regulated umbrella of SMP,  were  doing  until sometime  later;  2016 was one date 
suggested. As Ive already set out, I dont think thats a satisfactory or sufficient explanation. 
I think its reasonable for SMP to have had an understanding of aafs work, any business 
models and their client book and ongoing work, as a matter of basic  due diligence, prior to, 
let alone at the time of taking over regulatory responsibility and benefitting from aaf.
I cant accept SMP  would have reasonably started  using  aaf as a trading style without any 
knowledge or without there being a potential benefit for SMP. I have seen whats said about 
industry awareness and concern about execution only work at the time,  and I agree  and 
accept this. I think there was an awareness  and expectation that pre-dated this time in any 
event. In any event  this highlights the care I would have expected of SMP in ensuring their 
clients could properly be treated as being  execution only. I dont think  Mr R was such  a 
client; and if SMP had met their regulatory requirements, I dont accept Mr R would have 
been treated as such or that he would have ended up in the position  he is now in.
I understand SMP suggest this service  has recommended advisers should be entitled to 
have three  months  to acquaint themselves with a new client and his or her circumstances. 
There may be circumstances where three months may be a reasonable period of time for a 
new adviser to acquaint themselves with a new client and their needs and circumstances 
and review their current position.  Each case turns on its own facts. 
But I wouldnt consider  this to be a sufficient  reason alone  or taken in conjunction with any of 
the other submissions made, such as to absolve  SMP of responsibility here.
In any event, the submissions that SMP  ought  to be provided with three months  to acquaint 
themselves with a new client and review  and advise is, in my view, inconsistent  with other 
submissions. For example  SMP  say there  was no duty on them  to rectify  an earlier breach. 
Firstly I think its reasonable to expect SMP to have gained sufficient understanding of the 
work they would be taking  on under  the mantle  of aaf. And this would have been in advance 
of their regulatory link and responsibility  from 28 August 2012. I think  it reasonable to expect 
this to have included a review of the nature of the ongoing work. And according to what  
weve seen, the intention of aaf work  (at FIM and SMP)  was to provide (the purported) 
execution only service,  and apparently  nothing further. 
So it seems  unlikely SMP wouldnt have known this. It doesnt appear  to be suggested this 
was the case.  And, as Ive said, Id expect SMP to have known this.
This alone I would  have  expected to have attracted real concern and caution  on the part of 
SMP when  they came  to take on the ongoing  work and clients  and the work  model.  
Ref: DRN469578920I think a basic review  would have demonstrated  that a number of applications  for new SIPPs 
and transfers  were being submitted. And this should  have reasonably  led SMP to ensure 
they were satisfied this was appropriate.  And in Mr Rs case, I think the most basic  enquiry 
might reasonably have  caused concern and properly caused the ongoing activity to be 
paused for a full review.  Had this taken place it would have been sufficiently clear  Mr R 
wasnt a true execution  only client and that the arrangements  ought not properly to continue.
I havent seen  anything in any event that leads me to be persuaded SMP should be afforded  
any time (up to three  months) as being the time in which they intended to review and get to 
know their new client  Mr R (and advise). SMP dont suggest, in any other submissions, they 
intended to provide an ongoing service. I also havent seen anything to suggest  they 
introduced themselves as being  a new firm to Mr R, or let him know what  they could or 
would do for him.
Here it appears they did provide some  sort of ongoing contact  or service to Mr R; albeit 
nothing has been  said by anyone about  this. Nor was anything added after I highlighted this 
in my provisional decision.  In January 2013  (more than three months after the initial activity), 
a further sum was transferred  from a personal  pension into Mr Rs SIPP  and a further  
amount of commission was paid to SMP.
I dont understand  how this came about.  But it certainly doesnt support SMPs contention 
that whatever  conclusions  I reach,  I should allow a period of three  months for them to get to 
know their client.  Ive also seen that the first sum of commission  seems  to have been 
primarily described as representing  a fee for setting up the SIPP.  This is inconsistent  with 
the second sum and proportion being taken  from Mr Rs [already established] SIPP here.  
The general payment  of commission was highlighted to SMP  as an example  of their 
involvement early on in the complaints  and our investigation process. There was some 
suggestion, early on to this service,  that SMP hadnt received any financial  benefit  from this 
work. This submission is inconsistent with what appears to be the current  position. 
SMPs Director and regulated adviser  was the name  of the regulated adviser used on 
paperwork as part of the transfer and SIPP application process, (certainly after 28 August 
2012). 
More recently (February 2019) we were provided  with the spreadsheet and an email 
regarding payments (set out above). In relation to Mr R, the spreadsheet gives  a case 
reference of 388  and the sum entered in the list of full commission was £1,400 and in the 
SMP commission list is set out as £175.  The date of 10 September 2012 is entered for the 
date documents  sent to the SIPP provider.
Having looked  at the transaction  history from the SIPP  provider this spreadsheet is 
inconsistent with the IFA  fee they show on the SIPP statement paid to aaf of £1,432. And 
there is no reference to the later transaction and payment.
My understanding of this is that its said the loose group of people  comprising of the aaf part 
of SMP received  the commission into their account and then paid a smaller proportion  to 
SMP. Based on the name used (SMPs regulated advisers name) I understand it to be said,  
this was the proportion agreed to be due from the work to SMP. Thus logically SMP are 
trying to say that aaf profited in a more  substantial way than SMP.  But this isnt how the 
regulatory responsibility can be accurately described. 
Ref: DRN469578921We also have not been told by or on behalf of SMP  why this information wasnt provided  to 
this service at an earlier date. Nor have we been  told anything  further  about  the context of 
this; for example  why SMP had been  looking for this information historically (at the time). Nor 
how any split of commission  had been  agreed, or if its being suggested SMPs regulated 
advisers name was being used by another with or without his knowledge.
Having reflected on this information I accept it may indicate that individuals who became 
involved with SMP  via aaf may have financially benefitted from Mr Rs transfer and the 
opening of the SIPP; but this is in addition to SMP.  And it is clear enough to me that it was 
the use of SMP that enabled  this business and Mr Rs transfer and investment to proceed.  
I consider, and I think its accepted SMP  have  a duty to provide clear and credible evidence 
in relation to the work being execution only. And if this was part of a portfolio of work or 
business they took over responsibility  for, I cant readily be persuaded that ignorance could  
be any defence  to assuming liability.
This requirement isnt something new. Indeed the pension review  guidance  provided  in PIA 
Regulatory Update 33 of 1997 (which has been referenced on the part of SMP  as well as by 
our adjudicator) highlighted  the care needed  around purported execution  only business. The 
update set out that:
It should  be noted  that any significant  body  of these cases  will require substantial 
justification as "true" execution only cases
You should be particularly alert to doubts  about  the reliability of claims of "execution only"  if 
there are danger signals  such  as a high level of apparent execution-only cases  (more than 5 
per cent of all transfer policies sold by the individual in question and/or by the Member  as a 
whole), the use of technical terms by investors  unfamiliar  with them,  or numbers of investors 
apparently couching their comments in the same phraseology. 
Whilst I decide every case upon  its individual facts,  it is of real concern and relevance here 
that SMP  conducted  or assisted  in a substantial number of purported  execution only cases 
within a very short  space of time. We asked SMP what proportion of work  these  cases  made 
up of SMPs  work at the time, but havent  received an answer. I find it hard to accept it was 
less than 5 percent. Indeed it seems  to have been suggested the work made up 100% of 
aafs services.  We were  told:
There were  13 cases where all substantive documentation  and the process was completed 
by AAF under the FIM banner, but a final completion  letter was sent whilst AAF was 
operating under the SMP  banner. There were 28 cases where the process was undertaken 
and the substantive decision  taken  whilst  AAF operated under the FIM banner,  but the 
procedural requirements  were completed under  the SMP banner. There were  35 cases 
where the whole  process was undertaken by AAF operating under the SMP  banner. There 
are some cases  where the whole process was completed by AAF under the FIM banner but 
the fee was received by AAF after it began operating under the SMP banner.
I think this information  underlines the important role SMP played and was intended to play in 
enabling the transactions to go ahead.
This amount of work highlights my earlier conclusion that any satisfactory review of aafs  
work would have disclosed this client work. The acquisition of a trading style with ongoing  
business, using  the model  it is said was being used,  should, in my view, have immediately 
Ref: DRN469578922attracted proper attention and consideration from the outset. SMP should reasonably have 
been particularly  concerned by such a significant  amount  of purported execution  only clients. 
Even if they could persuade or satisfy me that SMP shouldnt have been aware of this, prior 
to acquiring the trading style and client book; which they cant.
As the PIA update set out at the time:
The PIAs view is that genuine  "Execution Only" cases should be the exception rather than 
the rule with each  member only having  a small percentage of such business in this form.
This wasnt a new or evolving regulatory approach. 
For completeness I think the documents relied on comprise of generic, pro forma 
communications between  adviser and client and the use of technical  terms and phraseology 
is apparent here. I dont  accept the letter said to have been sent by Mr R was written  by him, 
it is almost identical in substance to others  being  sent at the time to aaf/ SMP. Based on 
what Ive seen overall I think it derived from aaf- otherwise I cant  satisfy  myself as to why 
they wouldnt have  been concerned. I take into account all the other standard  pro forma  
documents used  and relied on to explain the work  of aaf. I think this was something an 
adviser and any basic  review should  have been  alive to. 
I also dont accept it can be reasonably said the documentation  was clear enough to ensure 
Mr R understood the nature of his relationship  with aaf, let alone  SMP;  nor how services 
were being  provided  to him. I dont think it can be said SMP were  in a position to reasonably, 
responsibly or properly  conclude  Mr R was an execution only client of theirs. 
I dont accept Mr R knew or ought  to have known based on what happened here and what  
was provided, that he was not being assisted, advised or provided a service  by a regulated 
firm.
I have previously explained that Ive various  matters  raised about  MiFID  and the Conduct of 
Business (COBs- especially COBS 10) rules in great detail and whether they are properly to 
be applied, how or otherwise.  Submissions  havent been consistent  on this; albeit Ive read 
all that has been  said with care. I previously indicated I didnt think  I needed to go on to say 
anything further  on these submissions; and no party has suggested otherwise in any 
responses. I dont think there have been  adequate  responses either to what  was said about 
how SMP ought to have  conducted themselves under the Principles of business.
I appreciate SMP say the rules at the time permitted people  to open execution-only SIPPs in 
the way Mr R did.
From my understanding I think SMP  suggested  at some point that they complied  with the 
appropriateness rules  under  MiFID  for non-advised sales. And that this would mean  in some 
cases, even true execution only sales, a business  can be required to ask the consumer for 
more information  to allow them to decide  if the consumer has the necessary knowledge  and 
experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction. Equally there have been 
some submissions referencing that MiFID and COBs dont apply.
Ive also seen it said by SMP that clients clearly  requested that AAF ceased dealing with 
them on completion  of the requested transfer(s) and that the Investment of the funds 
available was their sole responsibility Because we had no dealings  with the investment of 
Ref: DRN469578923the SIPP funds  we are unaware of where they are/were invested and have no authority over 
any of the SIPPS  or the investments which complies  with the clients written  instructions .
As Ive explained in this case, these  submissions arent supported by the direct 
contemporaneous evidence. Section 12 of Mr Rs SIPP application form asks about  the 
intended activity  of the SIPP and the timeframe. This has been completed in blue pen, hand  
writing and states:
The client wishes to invest  in either  the Rimondi Grand or the Merco  Bond.
These were  both unregulated overseas investments, usually only suitable for the 
experienced and high net worth investor  who was willing and had capacity to undertake a 
high level of investment  risk. Even  then usually proportions  of 3-5% in such unregulated 
schemes are often considered more suitable as a proportion of an investment portfolio; none  
of these things  being apparently true for Mr R. I have no difficulty  in concluding  it is 
extremely unlikely Mr R would have come  across either of these  investments  on his own or 
been in a position to assess and make any meaningful  decisions  about them.  In any event, I 
think the use of the blue pen reflects information  being added when the forms were being 
completed by another person.
I also dont think the usual type of individual who would  act on an execution only basis,  open  
a SIPP  and make  an unregulated investment with over 50% of their pension funds, would be 
the type of person who would later start making  monthly contributions of £30 or leave the 
remainder of the SIPP in cash.
Nor does  it sit comfortably with the motivation behind  why aaf was set up and operated;  
which I think must have or ought  to have been known by SMP. 
Here the investment was made shortly after the transfer. And I accept overall the credibility  
of Mr Rs description of a person coming to visit him with papers to sign, which  were then 
taken away. In the context  of the volume and nature of the work being  done here, it was 
clear enough  pro forma  approaches were  being  used.
The SIPP application form has been  pre-populated in a similar manner  using a similar  
typeface to a number of similar applications completed by aaf. It indicates personal  pension 
details and indicates Mr R intends to make  monthly  contributions of £30.from 15 October  
2012. In fact this didnt  start until 2013, but again I think  this shows  the involvement  of 
another person. 
Section 13 of the SIPP application form asked for the name of the authorised  adviser, and 
this was given  as the SMP regulated adviser. The details for the name  and address of the 
regulated firm are alternative asset  finance t/s St Martins Partners LLP but using an address 
associated with the aaf group with the regulators number for SMP.
I dont accept this information  was entered  against  SMPs agreement or knowledge. I think 
this intrinsically links SMP with the responsibilities to ensure things were done properly. aaf 
was a trading  style and cannot  and should  not be distinguished as separate  entity  acting in 
such a way that SMP werent responsible.
I accept the box for non-advised on the SIPP application form has been prepopulated and 
ticked. I dont accept this was a satisfactory  reflection  of the circumstances.
Ref: DRN469578924I have seen the document from the SIPP provider headed Deduction of fee agreement . 
This goes  on to say that this form should  be completed if an individual  wishes to appoint  an 
FSA regulated financial adviser and their fees to be deducted from your fund.
There is then a typewritten instruction on naming the firm appointed and detailing the role 
the company is to provide, namely providing the client  with advice and manage the 
investments held within the SIPP.
I accept the typewritten form instructions  on this have  been struck through  by hand- albeit 
the space for the name of the firm has been  completed as ALTERNATIVE ASSET 
FINANCE T/S OF ST MARTINS PARTNERS LLP.
I think its likely this strike through  was an addition made by the individual  (not Mr R) 
completing the forms. I dont believe Mr R would have understood what this striking through  
was intended  to achieve.
This writing is the same as the remainder of the handwritten additions  containing  Mr Rs 
name and the payment details (3% of the initial investment  with a MINIMUM OF £500 
MAXIMUM £2000).
This document is signed and dated 3/9/12.  I accept  this is a short  time after aaf became a 
trading style of SMP. This doesnt  absolve  SMP  of responsibility or liability.
The pattern  and fact of a number of purported execution  only transfers and starting of SIPPs  
(later followed by unregulated investments) taking  place  within  such a short space  of time 
tends to make me think this was deliberate at worst; and poorly regulated  at best.
I accept Mr Rs account as being  credible. I have considered everything provided, and I think  
the number and nature of the inconsistencies  and unanswered queries does have a 
reasonable impact  on my thinking, and overall,  I dont consider SMPs  account of what they 
say happened  and what I should  conclude as credible.
I understand SMPs recent submissions  suggest that the consequence  of my decision is to 
decide that aaf (under  the auspices  of SMP) were in breach/ negligent by failing to rectify an 
original breach and reversing  a decision to transfer  and enter into a SIPP.  They say this is 
wrong. Its also said that any failure  on the part of SMP wouldnt amount to a new breach 
here; so the failure of a professional to review and advise on their own breach isnt a new 
breach.
I accept that in relation to Mr R, he was initially a client  of FIM. Albeit  it might  have  been  Mr 
R might  have only been aware  of aaf as a name. I also understand why it might be said that 
FIMs actions might be open to review. But these  arent things Ive needed  to look at any 
further here. But I dont  agree that the application to open a SIPP and all that flowed from 
this and the payments received fail to demonstrate,  for example how liability  attaches to 
SMP. I think I have been clear enough that SMP  acted in furtherance of arranging  an 
investment here. In relation  to Mr Rs case specifically,  prior to 28 August 2012 the SIPP  
application hadnt been submitted, which was to hold the funds for the investment; and in 
this case the investment  was even named on the application. It was clear  enough this 
activity was being done to enable an investment to be made;  even if, SMP were  removed  as 
advisers prior to any investment being made.  Albeit here, Ive seen  the further monies 
transferred into the SIPP and commission  paid (again to SMP).
Ref: DRN469578925Ive seen what SMP have  also said in the alternative about the absence  of any agreement  to 
revisit or review; I accept theres  nothing  here to suggest there was explicit agreement,  but 
where no further documentation  has been provided  on other agreements,  I dont think  
pointing to an absence  here to be particularly  persuasive. However this isnt at the centre of 
my conclusions.
For completeness there was some concern expressed by SMP about how Mr R came  to be 
represented and how this may be linked  to other people.  I dont consider  this a relevant 
matter to my thinking, which has solely been  about Mr Rs complaint and whether  SMP did 
anything wrong  such  as to make  them liable.
what SMP  need to do
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr Rs complaint.  SMP need to complete the following loss 
calculation exercise  to assess if Mr R has suffered a loss. If he has SMP will need to 
address this.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been dealt with adequately. I dont think  
Mr R would have open a SIPP, proceeded with the transfers or made  the investment that 
followed: and his funds would have  remained  in the original personal pensions  (CIS and 
Abbey Life),  had he been adequately dealt with.
In the circumstances the following loss calculation needs to be completed by SMP and 
redress should follow:
Contact the former providers and obtain, at the date of my final decision, the notional 
transfer value  of each plan had they remained where they were.
If there is difficulty  in obtaining  the notional valuations then the return  from the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income total return index  (formerly known as the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income  Total Return Index) over the same period should be used. This 
is a reasonable  proxy  for the return that could  have been achieved had suitable funds 
been selected.
Obtain the current  transfer value of Mr Rs SIPP at the date of my final decision 
including any outstanding charges.
To calculate compensation, SMP should assess the Merco Bond  investment and 
assign an amount as a commercial value. If the bond is illiquid it should be given a nil 
value for the purpose of calculating compensation. 
If the current value  of Mr Rs SIPP (including the Merco bond investment) is less than the 
values of the hypothetical values of his previous plans, then Mr R has suffered a loss. I think  
this is likely here. 
If Mr R has suffered a loss the payment should be made into his SIPP to increase it by this 
amount. If this is not possible payment  may be made direct to Mr R but adjustment  should 
be made for the tax that would otherwise be paid on income derived from the SIPP.  The 
notional tax should be calculated by applying Mr Rs assumed marginal rate of tax in 
retirement (here assumed  to be basic rate).
Ref: DRN469578926If, at the calculation date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed  to be nil for calculation purposes. SMP will need to take ownership 
of the illiquid investment  by paying  a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If SMP are unable to purchase the investment  the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. SMP may wish to require that Mr R provides an undertaking to 
pay them  any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. SMP will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
It would not be fair if Mr R has to continue  to pay the annual SIPP fees if there are illiquid  
holdings preventing the SIPP from being  closed. Ideally, SMP  would  take over any illiquid 
holdings, thus allowing  the SIPP to be closed as appropriate now. So, I intend  to say that to 
give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings  and SMP  is unable to buy them  from 
the SIPP, then it is fair that SMP pay Mr R an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years of 
SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives  a reasonable period to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
All payments should take into account any available tax relief  and the effect of charges.
SMP are required to pay interest at 8% simple  on any loss sum outstanding 28 days from 
the date of confirmation of acceptance  of my final decision.
In addition SMP need to pay Mr R £450 for the distress and trouble he has been caused.
my final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr Rs complaint against St Martins Partners LLP.
SMP need to complete the loss calculation set out above and pay all sums  due. In addition 
they must  pay Mr R £450 to reflect the real distress  and inconvenience he has been caused.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
3 August 2019.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4695789