K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Aviva Insurance  Limited unfairly  cancelled his contents  insurance policy. 
background
In September  2017 Aviva  cancelled Mr Rs contents  insurance policy. It said hed been 
verbally abusive to its staff during  phone  calls. So it was unable  to continue  to provide him 
with cover.  After he complained it refunded the premium it had charged for his time on cover. 
It also paid him £100 for providing  incorrect information about the level of cover available  to 
him. 
Mr R says the cancellation was unfair. He said his behaviour  had been  affected by his 
medication and by the policy being mis-sold. So any record  of the cancellation should be 
deleted.
Our investigator said Aviva was entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy. He didnt recommend it 
reinstate the cover  or do anything differently.  Mr R wasnt  happy  with that. So the complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.  The policy wasnt  arranged  by Aviva. So I havent 
considered, in this complaint, if it was mis-sold. Ive only considered  whether  it acted  fairly  in 
cancelling the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Aviva do 
anything differently.
Aviva referred to section  8 of Mr Rs policy when cancelling it. This says it can cancel  the 
policy, when it has a valid reason to do so, by sending him seven days  notice.  It looks like he 
was given that. 
Aviva says its valid reason for cancelling was Mr Rs abusive behaviour during phone calls.  
Having read notes of the phone calls I think that was a fair and reasonable decision. He 
called up to discuss the level of his cover. It seems  he repeatedly  used insulting and 
inappropriate language. 
Ive considered Mr Rs explanation  for his behaviour during the calls. He says hed been 
provided with the wrong cover, incorrect information  and was on medication. Even if all thats 
true it doesnt make  me think Avivas  decision to cancel was unfair or unreasonable. So Im 
not going to tell it to remove all record of the cancellation.
Aviva says the cancellation has only been  recorded on its internal system.  Our investigator 
asked if it would change  the record to show Mr R cancelled the cover. It said its system 
doesnt allow this. But it did add a note to say he had cancelled  the policy.  It also paid him 
£100 for providing incorrect information.  Overall Avivas treated Mr R fairly and reasonably.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Aviva Insurance Limited do anything  differently. 
Ref: DRN44057182Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2018.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4405718