K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the lack of investment reviews  by Skipton Building Society.
They say they were told that reviews would take place every three months, but they have 
stopped since  May 2016. 
background 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and initially thought  it should be rejected. 
But having  spoken to Skipton he thought the complaint  should  be partially upheld.
In summary,  he said:
The terms and conditions suggest Skipton would review Mr and Mrs Ls investment 
every three years, and they signed  documents to this effect.  
The adviser might have given them a false expectation by conducting more reviews. 
But this was a decision exercised by the adviser   he chose to go over and above   
and not in line with Skiptons terms, or what Mr and Mrs L were  paying for.  
He thought the business should  pay Mr and Mrs L £100  each,  to mark the loss of 
expectation but also the trouble and upset this has caused.   
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators  view. In summary they said:
The confusion and disappointment caused by the adviser is totally unacceptable. 
It doesnt matter that the adviser went over and above what was expected,  he 
shouldve stood  by what he promised in the beginning. 
Skipton hasnt treated them fairly  by reneging  on that agreement.  
They feel like they were duped  into buying  a product. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partially  uphold  this complaint.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Skipton says, I think it should pay 
Mr and Mrs L £100 each  for the loss of expectation and trouble and upset caused. However, 
Im unable to say that Skipton was wrong to stop providing the three-monthly reviews.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this matter.  
Mr L has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he and Mrs L wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Ref: DRN40910392The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs L and Skipton, and reach what I 
think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
In 2012, when Mr and Mrs L made their investment I think  its more likely (than not) they 
were told by the adviser that theyd receive regular three-monthly reviews. 
I think its likely that this was done  by the adviser of his own initiative, even though Mr and 
Mrs L werent actually entitled to this under the terms  and conditions  of their agreement  with 
Skipton. In other  words the adviser probably acted outside of his powers, whatever his 
motivation was, and probably without Skiptons knowledge.  
So the position is that notwithstanding what Mr and Mrs L were told, they were  only entitled  
to a review  as per Skiptons  terms  every three years, and thats what  they were paying  
for, via an annual fee that they were paying  monthly. And anything they were getting in 
addition to this was a bonus. 
Given their poor experience with advisers in the past, I think the suggestion of three-monthly  
reviews was something they wanted and welcomed. Im mindful  up until May 2016 (for about 
four years)  it was a service the adviser  provided,  and they were  very happy with. So I can 
understand why they now feel totally let down, and have lost faith in the business. 
But despite  being told theyd receive this particular service, under the written terms and 
conditions of the agreement with Skipton, its not something that they were entitled to. And 
have enjoyed the additional reviews  over a significant period of time because the adviser 
said he would do this and until 2016  stuck with his word.    
The only problem is that when the adviser chooses  to stop a service that they werent  
entitled to in the first place, they have very little redress. And thats why I think theyve 
suffered a loss of expectation which I will address  below. 
In this instance I dont  think  itd be fair to require  Skipton to continue  to provide this service  
that it wasnt under an obligation to provide under its written terms and conditions.   
In terms of fees that Mr and Mrs L have been paying, I dont think  theyre paying for a 
service theyre no longer  receiving.  On the contrary,  it seems to me they were  receiving an 
additional service  that they werent  actually  paying  for. In other words, theyve had the 
benefit of the three-monthly reviews for a substantial period of time  based on the advisers 
undertaking  without  actually having  to pay extra for them.  
So, whilst Mr and Mrs L feel theyve been unfairly  charged for a service  they havent  
received since May 2016 this is not the case,  and theres no refund to be paid. And this is 
something I must take into account when awarding compensation for trouble and upset.  
Ref: DRN40910393On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think £100 each  as compensation for the 
loss of expectation and trouble and upset  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel like theyve  been duped or mis-sold the investment because  
they were promised reviews that they arent now getting. But I dont think this is the same  
thing as selling an unsuitable investment. 
However, if they wish to complain specifically  about the advice they received, they would 
have to give the business an opportunity to respond  to that specific complaint before taking 
any further action  or referring the complaint to our service.  
I note Mr and Mrs L say they no longer have faith in Skipton and as such will be leaving the 
business. Its of course a matter for them  but they may wish to seek  financial  advice before 
doing so. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate  
their frustration, Im not going to ask Skipton  to do anything further. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to give Mr and Mrs L what  they want.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
Skipton Building  Society should  pay Mr and Mrs L £100 each  for loss of expectation and 
trouble and upset  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4091039