K821x#15complaint
Miss R has complained about the actions of Insight Financial Associates Limited in 
transferring her pension  benefits from her former employers  scheme to a Self-Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP)  so that an investment could be made  into an unregulated  overseas 
investment, which  is likely now worthless.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2019. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was minded to uphold  the complaint.
Miss R accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further  to add.
Insight did not accept the provisional decision.  In summary it said:
Miss R had already  reserved the property, paid a deposit and selected a SIPP. Even 
if it had said no to the transaction Miss R would  have just gone  elsewhere. Its actions 
had no impact.
The IFA who worked with Miss R was regulated  the FCA alert referred to 
unregulated introducers.   
Miss R never had any direct contact with it and worked with her IFA. Its actions were 
restricted to completing the TVAS  and whether it would be appropriate  to move the 
pension  which it said should not be moved.
All its findings and guidance was given to Miss Rs IFA and it would have guided  her 
based on this. It asked whether that business had been contacted.
It mentioned overseas  property in its Suitability Report and this states, based on all 
the factors, not to proceed. 
It did not receive any distribution  fee from the investment company and it paid most 
of the recommendation fee to Miss Rs IFA. It does not believe Miss Rs comments  
about it only being interested in the fee were  correct.
Miss Rs IFA would have had the necessary  knowledge and experience to guide her. 
Miss R decided to ignore  its advice and follow what the IFA advised her to do.
It has acted honestly,  professionally and fairly.  It collected relevant information and 
recommended Miss R not transfer. Miss R had the assistance of a regulated 
individual in making  a decision whether to proceed or not.
The application form states that Miss R had adequate capital to make completion 
payments out of personal funds. 
The part played by the other regulated  business has been ignored and the fact that 
Miss R would have proceeded regardless of its actions has been  disregarded.  
Ref: DRN48887172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in the provisional decision that for Insight to give suitable advice on the pension 
transfer it had to consider the investment that the pension transfer  was facilitating. That 
remains the case even  if Miss R was referred  to it by another regulated  party. I would 
reiterate that this party recorded at the time that it was not giving investment advice or 
advice as to the pension  transfer. So Miss R was reliant on Insight to provide advice on the 
entire associated transaction of pension transfer and investment to be made.    
As I set out in the provisional decision I do not believe Insight obtained sufficient  information  
about Miss R to advise  her appropriately  and it did not meet  its requirements under COBS  9. 
It did not go into any detail about the Harlequin investment itself or what the risks of that 
were. A general reference to overseas property is not sufficient. I also set out in the 
provisional decision that I had not seen Insight provide  any detail about the benefits of the 
pension she was giving up. Miss Rs circumstances  do not suggest she was in any way 
financially sophisticated or experienced in investments  and so she would be particularly 
reliant on Insight to provide that advice,  especially when the referring regulated  party 
confirmed it was not providing that. The fact that Miss R did not meet  or have direct  contact  
with Insight only made it more important  that it gained sufficient information about her and 
provided her with thorough and complete advice and guidance.
I set out in the provisional decision that Insight proceeding with the transfer in this way did 
not satisfy its obligations  under COBS 2 and Principle  2 and 6. I remain of that view. 
Rather than being  ignored I discussed  and considered in the provisional decision whether it 
was likely that Miss R would have proceeded with the transfer and investment if Insight had 
acted appropriately.  I also considered  the involvement of the regulated  party that referred  
Miss R to Insight. I would refer the parties to my provisional decision but, in brief, I would 
confirm that I do not think it likely Miss R would  have transferred or made the investment if 
Insight had acted  correctly. I do not believe  that the payment of a small deposit would have 
committed Miss R to proceed or she would have felt committed  to the transfer and 
investment regardless.  And I also believe Insight is materially responsible for Miss Rs loss. 
 
I would confirm that any fee Insight received has not had any impact on my decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I order  Insight Financial Associates Limited  to calculate and pay 
redress as detailed in the attached provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN48887173copy provisional decision 
complaint
Miss R has complained about the actions of Insight Financial Associates Limited in transferring  her 
pension benefits  from her former employers scheme to a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) so 
that an investment could  be made into an unregulated  overseas investment, which  is likely now 
worthless.   
background
In August 2010 Miss R says that she introduced to the concept of investing in an overseas property 
investment (Harlequin) using her pension  by an individual who had previously been her mortgage 
adviser. This individual,  or Harlequin  agent,  then referred Miss R to a regulated  business which I will 
call business B. This was with a view to carrying out the necessary regulated activities  of transferring 
Miss Rs pension so that the Harlequin investment could  be made.
However business  B did not have the requisite regulatory permissions to be able to give advice on or 
facilitate a transfer of those  pension benefits because of the nature of the occupational pension  
scheme (OPS) Miss R held.
For that reason Miss R was referred to Insight, who could give advice on or facilitate such  a transfer.  
  
Miss R had been a member of an OPS between 1988 and 2002.  The OPS provided certain  benefits  
and guarantees, including a guarantee of minimum  benefit at retirement and revaluation (increases) 
of benefits before and after retirement.  The guarantees came  about because  the scheme had been 
converted from a final salary (defined benefit) to a money purchase basis.
Insight subsequently arranged and facilitated the transfer of the OPS benefits to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension scheme (SIPP) so that the investment  in Harlequin  could be made. 
In 2016 Miss R complained  to Insight that it had put her in a position  where her pension  funds had 
been lost.
Insight did not uphold the complaint. It said that it did not give the advice to invest in Harlequin   that 
was business B. It was not involved in any decisions relating to investment strategy. It confirmed that 
the costs of the SIPP had been disclosed. It said that it had advised  Miss R not to proceed with the 
transfer but she had decided to do so, accepting responsibility for that transfer. She had also 
confirmed that she was aware of the benefits being given up. It said Miss R had taken the decision 
herself to invest in Harlequin and before  any involvement  by Insight. 
On 12 January 2011, Miss R signed a letter addressed  to Insight  that said, in summary, she was fully 
informed of the risks associated  with the transfer and, despite Insight's advice not to proceed, she 
wished to go ahead.
Later, on 18 January  2011, Miss R contracted with Harlequin to purchase an overseas off-plan 
property located in St Lucia for £170,000. The contract  required  an initial 30% deposit of £51,000 with 
the remaining balance payable  by staged  payments.
On the same date, 18 January 2011, Insight carried out a financial review.
On 1 February 2011, Insight provided Miss R with a Financial Planning Report. The report  recorded  
that:
Miss R was age 44 and employed as a personal  assistant
She had no financial  dependants
Her annual income was about £24,000
Ref: DRN48887174Miss R's attitude to risk was "High" - prepared to accept the risk attached  to extremely volatile 
investments that could  both fall and rise substantially
Insight  had provided only limited advice 
This report also noted:
The adviser  wasn't able to assess Miss R's previous financial experience
because of the lack of available information
Miss R was fully aware of the risks involved in the overseas property
investment, although it was the first time she'd invested in such  a product
Following a review  of Miss R's circumstances  the adviser recommended 
"1) Transfer...  existing  (OPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension"
Purchasing overseas  property  with a pension  was "high risk"
A full assessment of the benefits Miss R would  be giving up by transferring  her pension 
wasn't possible  because the information needed to assess the benefits
 was unavailable from the OPS 
There were  warnings in the suitability  letter suggesting  Miss R not transfer her pension  away from her 
OPS. The first noted:
"...we are not able to make  a full assessment or make you aware other than in general terms what 
you should do with this pension,  for this reason I recommend you do not proceed with this transfer as 
we cannot advise you accurately on what benefits you will be giving  up..."
The second  warning said:
"I am facilitating  the transfer and providing  the sign off only however, as you are fully aware, this 
recommendation is against my advice and I strongly recommend you do not transfer the (OPS) to a 
SIPP however you have advised (business B) that you are fully aware  of the benefits  you will be 
giving up on the transfer and the risks involved..."
The report also stated:
"It was noted from our discussions  that you are personally  seeking  an aggressive investment and it is 
this factor which has predominately prompted your wish to transfer this plan."
On 19 February 2011, Insight set up a SIPP for Miss R.
On 27 May 2011, the transfer of about £60,000 from the OPS to the SIPP was completed.
On 9 June  2011, Miss R completed  the purchase of the Harlequin property.
On 2 June  2016, Miss R complained to Insight about the advice she received to transfer.
On 12 July 2016,  Insight rejected the complaint.  In summary it said:
No advice  was given to Miss R to invest in Harlequin. The advice to invest  was given by 
business B who advised on the investment  strategy within the SIPP
The insistent client letter  of 12 January 2011 confirmed Miss R was aware  of the inherent 
risks of the transfer
The suitability  letter clearly set out the adviser's recommendation not to proceed with the 
transfer
Miss R wasn't satisfied with the firm's response. In December 2016,  Miss R asked us to look into her 
complaint. In summary she said:
Ref: DRN48887175The advice to transfer was unsuitable because it failed to clearly explain the benefits she 
would be giving up by transferring out of her existing scheme. 
Miss R also says she had no direct contact with Insight.
Our adjudicator concluded  that the complaint should be upheld.  He reasoned  that Insight  had 
facilitated a transfer of pension benefits even when it knew that it was not in the best interests of the 
consumer. He considered  that as part of its duty of care  Insight should have declined to arrange  the 
transfer. 
Insight did not agree. In summary it has said:
It is clear that (business  B) was heavily involved in the setting up of the SIPP,  but their 
involvement has not been taken into account. We would like to understand why we appear to 
be held totally accountable for this when they (business B) were so heavily involved.  
Miss R has said throughout  that she had no direct contact with Insight. This is because  it was 
not involved in the recommendation  of the SIPP,  nor was it responsible for providing any 
investment advice or dealing with the client. All contact was made  through (business  B) and it 
would not have had any reason to contact her.     
Subsequently we have asked Miss R why she proceeded with the transfer and investment when 
Insights said that it was advising against  the transfer. 
She said:
First thing  to note is that during the process I did not have any contact  with anyone from Insight.  
When the process started (the Harlequin agent) referred my SIPP to (business B) and he advised that 
they would more often than not say "not to go ahead", but that this was standard  practice  and they 
would produce a standard template letter  for me to complete.
Then (business B) passed  the SIPP advice onto Insight, as it was an occupational pension that they 
did not have the expertise  to transfer,  I was advised that they would  also say "not to go ahead" as 
again it was standard practice to cover their own backs - I am also assuming now that they had no 
idea what the product was I was investing in as they never  spoke to me directly and it was just a 
transfer done  on behalf of (business B) and that neither (business B) or Insight had any concern re 
me, they were just interested in the fee they received  for doing  the transfer.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Insight has said that it did not give advice on the investment and also that advised  against the transfer 
to the SIPP. 
the scope of the advice
Insight has said that it was not providing  advice  on the investment, only the SIPP but it did know the 
intention was to invest into overseas property. It has said that it did not have to consider the suitability 
of the investment itself.  
Insight had a duty under  the relevant rules, in particular COBS 2 and COBS 9, set out previously  by 
the FSA and now Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to act in Miss Rs best interests,  know its client 
and give suitable advice. In my view it could not so without taking  account of the investment which the 
SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason  for the creation of the SIPP and the transfer was 
Ref: DRN48887176to enable the overseas property investment  to take place   the Insight  adviser knew this and has 
made statements  to that effect  in his report about the advice he gave. 
Insight said it was business  B that was giving investment  advice but that business  recorded  on its 
Pre-Meeting Questionnaire  that it was not giving  such advice or in fact any advice on the pension 
transfer to enable  it. 
And Im also mindful  that in January 2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have seen 
advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases we have seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will pass  
customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  
property development). When the customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment,  the 
customer is introduced  to a regulated financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does  not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to unlock  monies 
held in other investments so that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer  out of a 
current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property  investment under  a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice about  
whether the customer  should transfer into the SIPP.  If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators  to report  those 
FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make  any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation  that had not applied 
previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already  applied, and which were  in place in 2010 
when the advice was given.
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of process 
Insight carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent view based on the circumstances 
of the complaint and take into account the rules, law and good practice  in place  at the time to arrive at 
decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent with general  
comments from the regulator  about this type of process  that consideration should be given when 
advice is given to transfer a SIPP, to the suitability  of the overall proposition   both SIPP  and 
investment to be taken out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being  given about a 
SIPP to invest in overseas property. It said that where an adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that 
the customer  will sell current investments to fund overseas property  then the suitability of that 
investment must be taken into account.  
I would reiterate that I do not agree that simply  because the regulators alerts  were given after Insight 
gave its advice that they are irrelevant   all the alerts  did was highlight the existing obligations  (which 
Ref: DRN48887177applied at the time this advice was given)  when giving  advice such  as this. It was not setting  out new 
standards for businesses to follow.
So my view is that Insight did have to take into account and advise  on the specific suitability of the 
investment as well as the overall  arrangement of SIPP  and investment.
suitability 
As discussed, Insight could  not give suitable advice  on the combined  SIPP and investment without 
taking into account the investment itself. 
The Insight Confidential  Financial Review  Form or Fact Find which  was used to obtain background 
detail of Miss Rs circumstances  did not contain much detail. It recorded  she was employed and her 
salary but there is no detail  about outgoings, investments or savings,  assets (apart from her home) or 
pensions (apart form that she held a pension). An Attitude to risk profile is recorded as High Risk 
which seems  to be derived from the results of a risk questionnaire.   
Miss R was a personal assistant when the transfer took place, earning about  £24,000 a year. She has 
confirmed that she did not have any other investments such as ISAs,  shares  or unit trusts.  She did 
not have any experience  of high risk or unregulated investments.  She also did not have  any savings. 
So Miss R didnt have any investments of an aggressive or high risk nature. In fact it seems she had 
no experience  of risk based investments at all.
It does not seem to be disputed that Miss R approached Insight with the Harlequin  property 
investment in mind.  But that was as a result of a promotion of that investment to her by the Harlequin 
agent  Miss R had not arrived at this decision on her own. 
When asked about why he wished to make the investment Miss R has said that she was told to invest 
in it by her ex-mortgage  broker,  who then introduced  her to business  B. 
The Harlequin  investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative overseas  property investment. It 
was an Unregulated Collective  Investment Scheme (UCIS). It was high risk and the investor faced the 
real possibility  of losing  all their money. Because it was unregulated Miss R did not benefit  from the 
protection afforded by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
Miss Rs circumstances do not indicate that she was prepared to lose all her money  in the pension  
scheme or that she could do so. They also do not indicate that she was suited to the risks this 
investment presented. 
The risk grading itself,  which may or may not be accurate, is very much out of line with Miss Rs 
circumstances and experience.  But Insight accepted it without question, or having  any other detail  
about her background  or experience of investing.  It does not seem to me likely that it was completed 
after a discussion or risk assessment with Insight  to make sure that this was accurate. Both Insight 
and Miss R say that there were no conversations  between them.  That seems hard to reconcile with 
the comment  on the Financial  Planning Report, which  set out Insights recommendations,  that her 
attitude to risk was discussed at some length. Given the submissions  the parties have made  I do not 
believe it likely those discussions occurred.   It should be noted that Miss R has subsequently said her 
attitude to risk was low to medium.
In any event it this risk grading is one part of an assessment of suitability and does  not necessarily  
mean that an investment in Harlequin  was suitable for Miss R.
Miss Rs investment experience was very limited and does not suggest that she was an experienced 
investor who could appreciate all the risks of what she was doing or would  not be reliant on Insight to 
give her suitable advice or consider her best interests. I have not seen that Insight gave  Miss R any 
Ref: DRN48887178material advice about the Harlequin  investment itself, such  as I have discussed. In particular that it 
was unregulated  and therefore did not benefit from regulatory protections. 
The value of Miss Rs pension  funds was modest  at about £60,000.  The material  issue is that the 
majority of that money (£60,000)  was designated for investing  in Harlequin. That put most of her 
pension savings at risk of total loss (which is what happened). 
As discussed Insight knew that Miss R was intending to invest her pension funds  in overseas 
property. It obtained very little detail about Miss R or her financial  situation. There was no detail about 
her expenditure,  assets, savings, investments or liabilities.  There  was little detail about  her current  
pension apart from the fact she did have a pension. 
In my view Insight did not meet its requirements under COBS 9 to take reasonable steps to ensure 
suitability or obtain enough  information so as to advise Miss R appropriately. As previously discussed,  
that would include  taking into account  what investment the transfer  was facilitating. It could  not in my 
view have  assessed whether  this investment  and the overall arrangement of SIPP and investment 
was suitable for Miss R given the lack of information it had. It should  not have agreed to carry  out the 
arrangement of the SIPP  in this situation. If it had carried out appropriate fact finding and assessment 
of Miss Rs situation  and the Harlequin investment then it would have known this investment was not 
suitable for her. It should  have set out in more detail why the investment was not appropriate for her, 
which it did not do. Insight  did not explain  that Harlequin was unregulated (and what  that meant in 
terms of regulatory protections), or explain all the risks of unregulated off plan overseas  property 
investments and that Miss R could lose all her money. This was particularly  important because  Miss R 
was investing the majority of her pension benefits. 
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Miss R was not the more sophisticated and professional type of 
investor for which UCIS would be suitable; the risks of the investment are far higher than were  
suitable for her and they were of a nature that was not appropriate for her.  
In transferring Miss R would lose the guarantees and benefits provided  by her existing pension and 
would be dependent on investment  performance  from the new pension scheme. I have not seen that 
these were discussed in any detail by Insight.  
Bearing all this background  in mind, I do not believe there is any persuasive evidence  that it was 
appropriate for Miss R to take the risks of transferring, which put her retirement income and benefits  
at much greater risk. Her circumstances suggest that it was not suitable to take these  risks with so 
large of proportion  of her pension benefits.  She seemingly had no experience of investments  and no 
history of taking the kind of risks this transfer presented.  
Therefore I believe the transfer an investment was clearly  unsuitable. 
insistent client
However, Insight said it did advise against the transfer.  It treated Miss R as an insistent  client and 
told Miss R that it wasnt  recommending she transfer.   
I have detailed earlier the statements Insight  made about  advising against the transfer.  I have also set 
out Miss Rs explanation that this was something she was told that was standard practise to enable 
the transfer. I do not believe  it likely  given her background that she was proceeding based on a full 
knowledge of the ramifications of the transfer in terms of the pension transfer and investment. She 
was merely following  what steps  had been explained to her to make  the investment.  I dont believe 
given her inexperience that she understood the ramifications of agreeing to proceed in this way. 
Whilst Insight  did advise against  the transfer  it did not, as previously discussed, discuss fully the 
advisability of losing the valuable occupational benefits she held.  And it did not discuss all the risks of 
investing in unregulated overseas property or Harlequin  specifically, which  it should  have done if 
considering the overall SIPP transfer and investment  transaction. 
Ref: DRN48887179In my view,  had it done so, then it is more likely than not that she would not have transferred or made 
the investment. I believe  detailed knowledge of the effects of the transfer and risks of the investment 
would have been sufficient to have changed her decision. 
in any event  should Insight have proceeded with the transfer and investment?
There are overarching  reasons why in my view Insight should not have proceeded  with this 
transaction at all or on an insistent client basis. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  I am required to take into account  
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice. I am 
also required  to take into account, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
I consider that the FCAs Principles  2 and 6 and COBS 2 of the FCA (then FSA) Handbook are of 
particular relevance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
COBS 2.1.1R 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its client 
(the client's best interests rule).
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general  statement of 
the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system  (PRIN  1.1.2G). Principles  2 and 6 
say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when  deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Insight was very likely aware that Miss R was not an experienced or wealthy investor who was 
accustomed to entering into this type of transaction. It was aware of the nature of the pension  benefits 
she was giving  up and that the intention was to invest in an overseas property investment. But it did 
not seek  to obtain any detailed  information of Miss Rs background  and in my view its fact finding  fell 
far short of what would be reasonable in the circumstances to carry out the transaction. It then carried 
out the transfer without adequately explaining the ramifications of that or assessing  or discussing the 
investment to be made and its risks, as it should have done,  the transfer and investment  being part of 
one transaction.   
I do not believe that Insight  met its obligations under the principles to simply arrange the transfer of 
pension benefits  and administer the investment on an insistent client basis. It should  have been 
aware that there were very extensive risks inherent in this which Miss R was likely  not aware of. To 
simply process the transaction aware  of this information  and where  it was clear  that Miss R did not 
have the wherewithal to likely  appreciate all the risks herself was not acting in its customers best 
interest. I do not believe  it could ignore these risks and carry out the transaction  on an insistent client 
basis. 
It should have either declined to carry out the transection or provided further guidance or advice on 
the overall arrangement of transfer, SIPP and investment.  I do not believe it acted with due care or in 
Mrs Hs interest  in accordance with COBS  2 or Principles 2 and 6. 
Ref: DRN488871710did Insight  cause Miss  Rs loss
As discussed Insight should not have facilitated the transfer based on what it knew about Miss R. And 
also, if Insight had advised Miss R of the full extent of the risks of the transfer and investment I think  it 
more likely  that she would have taken account of that advice and it would have been persuasive, 
coming from a professional  regulated financial adviser. I think  it is more likely that she would not have 
invested and this advice would have changed  her motivation  to invest in Harlequin.  
It follows that she would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, her pension  to the 
SIPP. So neither the SIPP nor the investment would  have  taken  place but for Insights 
recommendation. Consequently  any loss Miss R has suffered through transferring to the SIPP and 
investing in Harlequin has been caused materially by Insight.
Im aware that a party involved with Harlequin  Property had been charged with fraud offences. A court  
might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly from Insights unsuitable advice. And on 
this basis,  a court  might not require Insight to compensate Miss R  notwithstanding the clearly 
unsuitable advice. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.  It may be there 
has been a break in the chain of causation . That might mean  it wouldnt  be fair to say that all of the 
losses suffered flowed  from the actions of the financial adviser. That will depend on the particular 
circumstances of the case. No liability  will arise for an adviser who has given suitable advice even if 
fraud later takes  place. But the position is different where  the consumer wouldnt have been in the 
investment in the first place without the unsuitable actions of the adviser.  In that situation, it may be 
fair to assess compensation on our usual basis  aiming to put the consumers in the position they 
would have been in if theyd been treated  correctly.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Miss R would  not have transferred or made  the Harlequin  
Property investment had it not been for the failings  of Insight. Had Insight acted correctly in respect of 
Miss R, the Harlequin Property investment would not have been made. As a direct  result of the Insight 
failings, Miss R invested  her pension into a specialised, unregulated investment  with a limited track  
record.  
Insight has said that business B was involved  in Miss R making the transfer or investment. But 
business B could not carry out the combined  transaction of pension transfer and investment and so 
Insight took over responsibility  of advising on the transfer which, as previously discussed, should  have 
included an assessment of the Harlequin  investment. Business B was not and confirmed it was not 
giving advice about the investment. So Insight is materially reasonable of the transaction taking place 
and any losses caused are fairly attributable to it. 
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold Insight responsible for the whole  of the loss suffered by 
Miss R. I am not asking Insight to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. I 
am satisfied  those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other  parties  might 
also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, 
that fact should not impact  on Miss Rs right to compensation  from Insight for the full amount of the 
loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Miss R as 
close to the position she would probably now be in but for the actions of Insight.
I think  with suitable advice Miss R would have kept her existing pension. The reason for the creation  
of the SIPP was investing in Harlequin and if that had not gone ahead  there would have been no 
reason to transfer to the SIPP.  So most likely Miss R would have simply retained her original pension.  
Ref: DRN488871711This issue is complicated by the matter of Miss Rs OPS  seemingly involving a previous  transfer from 
a defined benefits scheme.  However I believe this matter  can be adequately addressed by carrying 
out a calculation on the following lines:
Insight must  undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October  2017. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Miss Rs acceptance of the decision. 
Insight may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions  (DWP)  to obtain Miss Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Miss Rs SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Miss 
Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Miss R as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
In addition, Insight should pay Miss R £300 for the upset and inconvenience she has been caused by 
the unsuitable transfer. 
Had Insight given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Miss R 
continues to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, Insight  should  take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest way 
of putting Miss R back in the position  she would have been  in. But the ownership of the Harlequin  
Property investment cant  currently be transferred. Its likely that will change at some point, but I dont 
know when that will be  there  are a number of uncertainties.  
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Insight pays Miss R an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or undertakes 
to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable  period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, Insight may ask Miss R to provide an undertaking to 
give it the net amount of any payment she may receive from the Harlequin  property investment in that 
five year period, as well as any other payment she may receive from any party  as a result of the 
investment. That undertaking  should  allow  for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount she 
may receive.  Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Miss R to 
provide an undertaking,  payment of the compensation  awarded by this decision may be dependent 
upon provision of that undertaking.  
If, after five years, Insight wants to keep  the SIPP  open, and to maintain  an undertaking for any future 
payments under the Harlequin property investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees.  
If Insight fails to pay the SIPP fees, Miss R should then have the option of trying to cancel the 
Harlequin Property contract to enable  the SIPP  to be closed.
Ref: DRN488871712In addition, Insight is entitled  to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Miss R of any claim she may 
have against any third parties in relation  to this pension  transfer and Harlequin property investment. If 
Insight chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of compensation 
is made. Insight must  first provide a draft of the assignment to Miss R for his consideration  and 
agreement. 
The compensation  resulting  from this loss assessment must where possible be paid to Miss R within 
90 days of the date Insight  receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  
interest must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Insight to 
pay Miss R this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint and intend to order  Insight  to pay fair compensation as detailed above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888717