K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr B had car insurance with Admiral for a number of years.  His policy renewed on 
20 July 2017.
On 4 April 2018,  Mr B called Admiral  and told them his car had been damaged  that day after 
he drove over a pothole. He wanted some guidance  about pursuing the authority responsible  
for the roads, although  he didn't make a claim on his policy.  During that discussion, Admiral 
asked Mr B if there were  any other  incidents. Mr B said that on 28 July 2016, while  his car 
was parked and unattended, a van drove  into it causing damage.  The van driver and his 
company accepted full responsibility  and their insurer paid for the damage,  so Mr B didnt  tell 
Admiral about it at the time.
A couple of days after the call, Admiral sent Mr B an email  asking him to pay an additional 
premium (AP).  They  asked for just over £300, which was around 75% of his original 
premium of just over £400.  They said had they known about  the July 2016 incident at the 
last renewal, the premium would have been  higher. Mr B refused  to pay the AP saying  it was 
unfair and he complained.  He felt it wasnt fair or reasonable for Admiral  to penalise  him for 
the incident in 2016 where no claim was made  against his policy.  He was also unhappy with 
how Admiral dealt with his complaint, in particular that they rejected it without investigating. 
Admiral didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr B didn't think that was fair so he brought it to us. One 
of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Admiral had dealt with Mr B fairly. 
As Mr B didnt agree  with our adjudicator,  the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 August 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr B has made many detailed  points  and I have considered all of them  carefully. But, 
in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is to 
decide if Admiral have dealt with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way.
charging the additional premium for the 2017-2018 policy year
Mr Bs policy  required  him to tell Admiral  about any driving incidents affecting  his car, 
whether or not that led to a claim. Admiral have suggested that what  Mr B did by not 
disclosing the July 2016 accident  amounted  to, what is known in the insurance 
industry as, a careless misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets 
out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers  may:
cancel the policy; or 
tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  
(or apply other exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if 
Ref: DRN40491092the consumer  isn't happy with that approach, they (the consumer) can cancel the 
policy themselves. 
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an AP. But we think its fair for the 
insurer to give the policyholder the option of them paying the AP for the insurer to 
then settle any future  claim in full instead of settling the claim proportionately. But 
that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the 
policyholder theres  a problem and give them the option of paying the AP in order to 
keep the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves. Thats because 
the insurer cancelling the policy will have  serious  consequences for the policyholder  
because they will have  to declare it when  they want to take out insurance in the 
future.
Under CIDRA, Mr B had a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. To assess  whether  or not Mr B took reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation,  I have to look to see if Admirals question  was clear. The 
question Mr B was asked during a phone conversation was whether you or any 
driver had any accidents, incidents, thefts or losses, or any claims  fault or non-fault  
 during the past three years?. Mr B said he hadnt. I think the question  was clear  
and that Mr B should have told Admiral about  the 2016 accident.
But Mr B has said he believes his answer was correct. He said the word  incident 
wasnt clear and wasnt defined in the policy documentation. In response to Mr B 
asking for clarification as to what incident meant, Admiral said we define an 
incident as any damage caused  to your vehicle,  which may give rise to a claim,  fault 
or non-fault. Mr B said that as the other  drivers insurer settled the matter by paying  
for the damage  in full very soon after the 2016  accident, there  was no possibility of a 
claim being made. I dont  agree with Mr B. I think what happened in 2016 can be 
described as both an accident and an incident.  What  happened was that a van 
drove into his parked  car causing damage. So, applying  the everyday usage  of 
accident and incident, that event was both an accident and an incident.  And while it 
didnt result in Mr B making a claim against  his own policy, the fact that damage was 
caused to his car did give rise to the possibility of him making a claim on his own 
policy, even though he didnt. It was, as happens in some cases,  a possibility that the 
other drivers  insurer  would refuse to pay or the other  driver  would dispute liability  
after initially  accepting it was his fault, as thats certainly not an uncommon 
occurrence in my experience. The point is that the moment the accidental  damage 
was caused to Mr Bs car, was the point which gave rise to him making a claim, 
regardless of what happened after that.
Understandably, Mr Bs policy doesn't define all the words used in it. And where 
terms aren't defined we expect the everyday meaning to be used. As Ive said above,  
what happened in July 2016 was both an accident and an incident.  Incident has a 
wide every  day meaning which includes an event or an occurrence.  But I think  that 
its obvious that the meaning is within the context of something happening to his car. 
The policy asks the policyholder to tell Admiral about any accidents,  incidents, 
thefts, losses or claims. I note that when Mr B called  Admiral on 6 April 2018 to 
question the AP, the call handler  read through the details on his system and said the 
AP was charged because of a claim. But Mr B corrected him saying it wasnt a 
Ref: DRN40491093claim it was an incident.  So I think that Mr B should  have  disclosed  it when  his 
policy renewed in July 2017.
Also, while Mr B didnt  make a claim on his own policy, he still claimed against the 
other party. The policy just refers to claims and not claims on your own policy.  So 
a claim against a third party would have  to be disclosed. Mr B further  commented  on 
the question whether you or any driver  had any accidents, incidents He said as 
he wasnt in the car at the time and it was his car that was struck, his answer was 
correct as he hadnt been involved in an accident or incident, his car had. While I can 
understand his point,  I don't think that means he answered the question accurately. 
Mr B was well aware that his car had been  involved in an incident.  His policy  is there 
to cover him from suffering loss or damage  to his car, whether or not he is in the car 
at the time. So had Mr B not arrived  at the scene soon after to discover  the van 
driver, and had the driver  made  off without leaving his details, I think  Mr B would 
have been able to make a valid claim on his policy for the damage, even though he 
wasnt in the car at the time. So I think Mr B should have disclosed the 2016 
accident. 
Mr B not telling Admiral  about the 2016 incident  when his policy  renewed is, as 
mentioned above,  known  in the insurance industry as a careless  misrepresentation. 
And CIDRA  doesn't  allow  an insurer to simply impose an AP in the manner that 
Admiral did. But, in these  circumstances,  where  there hasn't been a claim (on Mr Bs 
own policy) we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the policyholder  theres a 
problem and give them the option of either  paying the additional premium or 
otherwise to cancel  their policy.
So Admiral  shouldnt have  insisted that Mr B pays an AP without otherwise giving 
him the option  of cancelling his policy. But, in response to Mr Bs complaint, Admiral  
told him that they had waived the AP to resolve the complaint and in recognition of 
your length  of service  to us. While I think that was reasonable,  it doesnt change the 
fact that Admiral didnt  comply with the requirements of CIDRA  and shouldnt  have 
insisted on Mr B paying it in the first place. But by waiving the AP, Admiral  have  
effectively compensated  Mr B by that amount  for their mistake.  Thats  because  if 
Admiral followed CIDRA  correctly, either Mr B would have paid the AP willingly  or the 
policy would have been cancelled. But the policy wasnt cancelled  and Mr B didnt 
pay the AP, so he benefitted  by having full cover  for the full term of the policy without 
paying the full premium.  Im therefore not intending  to uphold this part of the 
complaint given I think Admiral have  dealt with it reasonably. 
the cost of the additional premium for the 2017-2018  policy year
Mr B also complained about the size of the additional premium.  It was over £300, 
which is about a 75% increase on his original  premium. It might help if I explain that 
we're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how 
much they can charge  for their policies. And our service generally  takes  the view 
that, providing they treat people fairly  - that is they treat customers  with similar  
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they 
need to in order to cover a risk.
We asked Admiral to provide details showing how they calculated the AP. That 
information is commercially sensitive, so its not something insurers publish or share  
with policyholders because it might  give their competitors a commercial advantage. 
Ref: DRN40491094But we look carefully to see if calculations are made in a fair way and that insurers  
treat customers in similar circumstances the same. Having done  so, Im satisfied that 
Admiral treated Mr B in the same  way as they would other policyholders  in similar 
circumstances. So I think they calculated his premium reasonably.
But, as I understand  it, Mr B believes the increase to his premium  was unfair 
because of an accident that wasnt his fault and that was resolved without any claim 
being made against his policy or without  Admiral being exposed to any financial loss. 
I should say at this stage  that Mr B feels the same about the damage  caused to his 
car following the pothole incident  where,  again,  he didnt claim on his policy, but 
which Admiral indicated  they might take into consideration  going forward when the 
policy was due for renewal 2018.
Mr Bs premium  did go up significantly. So I can understand why he was concerned. 
But just because Mr Bs premium has increased, I don't think that means  that Admiral 
have treated him unfairly.  When  calculating premiums, insurers  take into 
consideration a very large number of risk rating factors. In other words, they assess  
the level of risk each  policyholder poses and the likelihood of them making a claim in 
the future  by looking at many different factors. It might help if I give just a few 
examples of the hundreds  of factors insurers consider: the type of car insured; where 
the car is kept;  the policyholders occupation; the policyholders age; the type of 
licence the policyholder has; the length of time the car has been owned;  the number 
of years the policyholder has been driving;  and past driving incidents the policyholder 
has been involved in. But its not down to me to tell insurers what factors they should 
take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of 
those. Thats  essentially a matter  of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against 
the need to compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually 
think its fair to interfere with.
Some insurers, including Admiral, say that statistically  policyholders involved in non-
fault accidents are at a higher risk of being  involved in accidents and making claims 
in the future. As insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres  
anything wrong  with insurers considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into 
higher risk groupings. I understand Mr Bs frustration  as he believes insurers  
shouldnt generalise, but instead they should look at individual  policyholders 
circumstances when  assessing the risk they pose  before setting premiums.  But 
insurers already do that. Insurers  ask about a policyholders address, their age, the 
type of car they drive, where they keep  their car overnight, their occupation, how 
many miles they drive a year and their marital status just to name a few. As 
mentioned above,  there are hundreds of factors insurers take into account to work 
out each individuals risk factor. And past accidents, claims and incidents are also a 
key part of that assessment, whether fault or non-fault  and whether or not any claim 
is made. A policyholder may be unfortunate enough to be involved in several 
accidents that werent their fault. But if an insurer relies on statistical data that shows 
policyholders who have been  involved in non-fault accidents in the past have a 
higher propensity  to be involved in accidents and/or make claims in the future, then I 
think its reasonable for an insurer to rate those policyholders as a higher risk and to 
charge them  a premium  to reflect  that increased risk. Im therefore not intending to 
uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
2018-2019 renewal policy
Ref: DRN40491095Im aware that Admiral sent Mr B a renewal notice for the 2018-2019 policy year and 
that the premium  further increased to over £800.  Mr B didnt  take that policy  up and 
he went elsewhere.
I understand that as part of the new policy  Admiral offered Mr B, they included the 
2016 accident and the incident in April 2018 involving the pothole in their assessment 
of risk, which may have  had a bearing  on the premium. The comments  I have made,  
above, about Admirals  entitlement  to take into consideration past 
accidents/incidents/claims when assessing  the risk posed by Mr B and pricing  the 
premium accordingly, equally apply to the 2018 policy  renewal.
But at the time Mr B raised  concerns about  the potential of Admiral  using  the 2018 
pothole incident  when calculating his 2018  renewal premium, the renewal  wasnt due 
for another  several  months. So when addressing this point in the final response 
letter, Admiral said that they couldnt confirm they wouldnt  use that pothole incident 
when setting the 2018 renewal premium. Admiral said that while  they couldnt say 
with any certainty that the incident  would  increase  the premium, it was likely that they 
would.
As Ive already  said, Mr B didnt take up the 2018 renewal and went  elsewhere.  But, 
if hes not happy with the cost of the renewal premium, he will have  to make a new 
complaint to Admiral.  And if Mr B is not satisfied with their response,  our service  can 
look into it. 
Admirals handling  of Mr Bs complaint
Mr B complained to Admiral the day he received the request for the AP, on 6 April 
2018. Ive listened to that call recording.  The call lasted almost two hours  and Mr B 
was passed through to several people. Each  time he had to explain what had 
happened and what his complaint was about. He repeatedly said that he wanted 
Admirals final response letter so that he could  take his complaint to our service. Its 
clear that Mr B was aware that our service expects  businesses  to first try to resolve 
disputes with their customers before coming  to us. And a final response letter  is 
usually the point where a business has given their final position on a dispute  and the 
consumer can then ask us to look into it.
The penultimate member of staff (M) from customer services Mr B spoke with on that 
day, said she would try to resolve the complaint that day. Mr B said that he wanted  
three things:
(1) for Admiral to waive the AP for the 2017  policy year; 
(2) a guarantee  that his premium wouldnt go up at renewal for the 2018 policy year 
as a result  of his disclosure of the pothole  incident;  and
(3) that he wanted a definition  of the word  incident.
M told Mr B that the July 2016 incident  had correctly been added to his policy and 
that the AP was correctly charged as it increased  his risk rating.  In response, Mr B 
said Admiral should  send him a final response  letter so he could take his complaint to 
our service.  M told him that Admiral  had a complaints procedure to follow and offered 
to get a manager to call him back. But Mr B said there was no point in that happening 
Ref: DRN40491096unless Admiral were going to change their position and he again asked for a final 
response letter.
But, later that day, a complaints handler (AM) called Mr B to discuss  his complaint. 
Ive listened to that recording. Mr B initially said he didnt want to discuss  his 
complaint, but he later agreed to call AM on 9 April.  Mr B said he wanted  a final 
response letter from Admiral as he wanted  to take his complaint to our service as 
soon as possible. I understand that Mr B didnt call to speak with AM on 9 April. He 
next called  Admiral on 20 April and asked to speak  with AM, who wasnt  available. I 
have listened  to that call. Mr B was told that his complaint had been  rejected and that 
Admiral were going to write to him. Mr B wasnt happy and said Admiral couldnt  have 
considered his complaint properly because they didnt have all the details as he 
hadnt yet spoken with AM about  it. The complaints handler said that when Mr B 
spoke to them on 6 April 2018, he didnt want to take up the offer of speaking  to a 
manager. Mr B disputed that and said he didnt want to speak to a manager that day. 
I think its correct  that Mr B didnt want to speak to a manager because he didnt 
believe his complaint would be resolved to his satisfaction. He wanted  a final 
response letter as soon as possible so that he could bring his complaint to our 
service. In fact, when AM called him on 6 April Mr B told AM that he didnt  want  a call 
back from a manager.  But by the end of the call with AM, Mr B did say he didnt want  
to discuss his complaint  that day but he would  call AM on 9 April. But I understand Mr 
B didnt  call that day.
Admiral said that they sent Mr B a letter  by email on 10 April acknowledging his 
complaint and informing him that they had eight weeks in which to consider his 
complaint. Mr B said he didnt receive  that email and he doubts it was sent to him. So 
it would  appear  that Admiral took the decision to reject Mr Bs complaint sometime 
between 10 and 20 April.  
So when Mr B didnt  call AM on 9 April as he said he would, given his reluctance  to 
discuss the complaint  with a manager  and his repeated insistence on Admiral issuing 
a final response letter  urgently,  I think it was reasonable  that Admiral  considered  his 
complaint on the basis of the information they already had. Having listened to all the 
calls that took place on 6 April, I think it was clear that Mr B had complained and 
what he was unhappy about. And as explained  to him on 20 April, I understand 
Admiral were going to write to Mr B explaining their decision, which would have  been  
the final response letter he wanted. Its not unusual for a decision  to be made on a 
complaint and for the letter explaining that decision to be sent to the consumer at a 
later date. But I dont think  Mr B was disadvantaged because when he spoke with 
Admiral on 20 April,  he said he would  send his complaint in writing. He sent Admiral  
a detailed letter dated 1 May outlining his complaint to which Admiral responded on 
23 May by sending him their final response letter.  So I think  Mr B was able to fully put 
across all the points he wanted to make before Admiral made a final decision. Mr B 
said that Admiral rejected  his complaint without investigating or giving him the 
opportunity to put his case forward, but I dont  agree. Im therefore not intending  to 
uphold this part of the complaint.
customer service
Mr B feels  that the customer  service  he received from Admiral  was poor. He said 
they were unable to answer all his questions. He said, for example, they couldnt give 
him a definition of incident or direct him to where in the policy booklet the definition 
Ref: DRN40491097was contained.  He also said there  was confusion as to whether the complaint was to 
be made to the claims team or to the customer services team. Mr B was also 
unhappy that he spent long periods of time on the phone, that he was passed onto 
various different  people  and that his calls sometimes just dropped, meaning he had 
to call again.
Having listened  to all the calls and looked  at how Admiral dealt with Mr Bs complaint 
as a whole, I think  Admirals staff did try their best to answer  all his questions.  Most  
of the discussions  took place on 6 April. While its true that Mr B was passed onto a 
number of different  people, the third person he spoke to (M) did take ownership  of 
the complaint.  She asked for some time to look into things and, as promised, she 
called Mr B back. She explained why the AP was charged; she explained that the 
definition of incident wasnt in the policy booklet;  she gave an explanation  of what  
incident meant; and she offered to get a manager to call Mr B. While  I can 
understand why Mr Bs expectation was that Admiral staff he spoke with should  have 
been better equipped  to answer all his questions,  I think thats not always possible. 
And I think it was reasonable for staff to take details of the complaint and arrange for 
a manager to call Mr B back who would have been better placed to answer Mr Bs 
questions. But Mr B didnt want that.
But I think Admirals service  could have been better.  Mr B was passed between  
customer services  and the claims department a number of times and he was made  to 
register one complaint with the claims department and another with customer  
services. Mr B was clearly  unhappy  and had been  on the phone to Admiral for well 
over an hour and a half on 6 April. He said several times that he wanted to register  a 
complaint. Given the calls were recorded, I think one call handler could have taken 
the whole  complaint without transferring him between departments, especially as 
there was going  to be one response  letter to all the complaint issues.  By transferring 
him between  departments  and having  three different people  deal with him, Mr B had 
to repeat himself a number of times. I therefore intend to uphold  this aspect of the 
complaint in part. As its been a source  of distress  and inconvenience to Mr B, I 
intend to require Admiral to pay him £150 compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. 
Admiral didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said that their service and how they 
dealt with the complaint wasnt poor,  but even if it was, the compensation should have been 
in the region of £25 to £50, not £150.  In response  to my comment that one department  
should have taken Mr Bs complaint rather than transfer him between  the claims and service  
departments, Admiral said it was necessary for the two departments to deal with the 
separate issues Mr B raised because each department  has its own specialism and trained 
staff to deal with separate issues to a high standard. They said they followed their correct  
procedure.
Mr B provided detailed comments in response  to my provisional findings, which can be 
summarised as follows:
Mr B doesnt believe that Ive considered  all the points  he made carefully.
Admirals policy  document should  define all key words.
Mr B didnt  believe he had to tell Admiral  about  the 2016 incident,  especially as when 
he came  to renew the policy  in 2017 the matter had been fully dealt with.
Ref: DRN40491098Mr B believes the policy wording is ambiguous. For example, if Admirals intention 
when using the word  claims  was to include  both claims made against Mr Bs own 
policy and claims made against  another partys  policy then that should  be clearly 
explained in the policy. Likewise, Mr B feels the same applies where  Admiral  make 
reference in the policy to the policyholder being involved in an accident or incident.  
He feels this is ambiguous and the policy should  have said words to the effect of both 
the policyholder  and their car being involved.
While  Admiral did waive the AP they did so as a gesture of goodwill  due to Mr Bs 
circumstances, but that it could not make  such a gesture for all customers . Mr B 
feels this demonstrates  that Admiral treat their customers inconsistently  when dealing  
with complaints made against them.
In response to my comment  that our service  isnt the insurance industry regulator 
Mr B said he knew that but would  like advice as to how he could  pursue  the pricing 
aspect of his complaint.  
In response to my comment  that our service  expects  Admiral to treat customers  with 
similar circumstances in the same  way, Mr B said my comment  was in direct 
contradiction to my support for Admiral  dealing with complaints made against it by 
some customers in ways that it is simply not possible for it to deal with for others. 
Mr B believes that he was lied to by Admiral when they said that they had sent him a 
letter by email on 10 April 2018.  He said they didnt send him the letter as they 
suggested. Mr B said that I, and our service, have swallowed Admirals lies and that 
our assessment of his complaint was nothing short  of a sham. In support of his 
belief that our handling of his complaint was inadequate,  Mr B listed a number of 
questions/issues that he said we failed  to deal with when our adjudicator considered  
the complaint.
Mr B accepts  that he didnt call Admiral back on 9 April 2018. He said that was 
because he needed to think things through and take advice  first. Mr B feels  it was 
wrong for Admiral  to reject his complaint without him being  given the opportunity to 
get back to them.  Mr B feels that my comments demonstrate that I think  Admirals  
actions in this regard were acceptable  and that it shows  I was biased in Admirals 
favour.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the parties  further comments  as follows:
While  I can understand  Admirals point that different departments  have different 
training and expertise, and that they may be better equipped to deal with different 
aspects of the concerns Mr B raised,  I still feel that they could  have dealt with things  
much better. Having  listened to all the calls, its clear that there was confusion  
amongst Admirals staff as to which department should deal with the aspects of the 
complaint. And Mr B was clearly frustrated  yet he was kept on the phone  for almost 
two hours and passed on to several people  which caused him further frustration and 
inconvenience. Its also clear  from the calls that the issues  werent that 
straightforward and Admiral would need  time to look into things. So I think  that they 
should have taken all the details of the complaint as early as possible into the call 
and told him that he would be called back. Given the calls were  recorded, once the 
exact nature  of the complaint was established Admiral  could  have then allocated  the 
different aspects of the complaint to the relevant  specialist teams to address them. 
But that didnt  happen. I dont agree with Admiral  that £150  compensation is 
Ref: DRN40491099excessive given the period of time Mr B was, in my view, unnecessarily  held on the 
phone and passed through to several call handlers.
I can confirm that I have considered all the information that Mr B and Admiral have 
provided to our service  during  this complaint.
Mr B has said that he feels Admirals policy document should define all key words. 
The main issue he raised in this regard is the lack of definition of incident.  But, for 
the reasons given  in my provisional decision,  I feel that even without  a definition of 
the word incident in the policy documents, Mr B should have told Admiral about the 
2016 accident.
Its usual for insurers to provide definitions of key terms, but I wouldn't  expect it to 
define all the terms. As that would make the policy  wording  unnecessarily  long. And 
where a policy  term isn't defined its usual for the everyday wording to apply. And I 
think that Mr B and the majority of other  customers would understand what incident 
or accident meant in the context of the policy.
Admiral said they waived the AP as a gesture of goodwill due to Mr Bs 
circumstances, namely  that he was a longstanding customer. I dont agree with Mr B 
that this demonstrates  Admiral  is inconsistent in how they treat their customers. In 
Mr Bs case, they shouldnt have demanded that he pay the AP in the first place. 
They should  have  given him the options under CIDRA, which they didnt. But there  
can be instances where an insurer is right to demand payment, but using their 
discretion they might  decide to waive that payment depending on the individual  
circumstances of that consumer and the issue. That is something theyre  entitled  to 
do. 
As Ive mentioned  before,  our service isnt the insurance industry regulator. Admiral  
is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.  So Mr B can raise concerns about 
how Admiral price  their policies with them. Their  website  is https://www.fca.org.uk/ . 
However, as I understand it while the FCA will consider individual comments when 
looking at regulated activities it doesnt usually  respond to individual  complaints. 
Mr B said that I had contradicted myself by saying I expected Admiral to treat  
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way when pricing policies 
because I had lent support for Admiral  dealing with complaints made against it by 
some customers in ways that it is simply not possible for it to deal with for others. I 
dont support the unfair treatment of any consumer. Where I commented  that Admiral  
should treat their customers  the same, that was in the context of how they go about 
calculating their premiums. That is they should  apply similar  risk ratings to people  
with similar  circumstances. It doesn't mean that they should never respond 
individually to the specific circumstances of an individual  complaint. So I don't agree 
that I said anything  contradictory.
I dont accept Mr Bs claim that his complaint wasnt considered by our service fairly 
or that the assessments  made by our adjudicator and myself were nothing short of a 
sham.  In most decisions I make,  given  that Im generally upholding or not upholding 
a complaint, its likely  one side or the other will be upset. And its not that unusual for 
a party  to a complaint,  whether thats  a consumer or business, to think  my decision is 
wrong or biased  when it doesnt  go their way. But, in every  case, I arrive  at my 
decision as to what I feel is fair and reasonable in the context of the case  at hand and 
based on the full weight of evidence before me. Thats  what  I did here and Im 
satisfied I've reached a fair outcome,  although I understand Mr B doesnt agree.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I feel that Admiral did give Mr B a 
reasonable opportunity to put his complaint forward. And even though I think they did 
initially reject  his complaint on the information they had, once Mr B objected  to that 
they allowed  him to make  full written representations  which  they considered  before 
sending him their final decision,  which  I think  was reasonable.
Ref: DRN404910910Finally, I think  it would help if I explain that while both Mr B and Admiral  have made  detailed  
submissions, I dont think its necessary to address every single point in my decision,  
especially where I dont  feel it will have an impact  on the final outcome.  I have made findings 
on the points I feel are pertinent to address the key issues relevant  to the complaint and my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr B £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr B has accepted  
my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral pay interest and considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr B how much theyve taken  off. They should  also give 
Mr B a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4049109