K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Michael  J Orbell mis-sold them a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002 in connection with a mortgage with Santander, who 
were trading  at the time as Abbey National.
background
Mr and Mrs S complained to this Service. They said they were complaining about a PPI 
policy sold on a mortgage in 2002. They do not recall having the policy explained  to them.  
Michael J Orbell said it did not sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. It said it arranged  the mortgage  
and sold some decreasing term assurance, but that wasnt with Santander. So it concludes  it 
is not responsible  for the PPI sale.
Santander said it didnt  sell the PPI. It said its records showed  the PPI was sold by Michael 
Orbell trading as Independent Mortgage  Finance.  
We have contacted Mr and Mrs S, Michael  J Orbell and Santander for any evidence  and 
comments to see who is most likely responsible  for looking at this PPI complaint. Our 
adjudicator thought Michael J Orbell was liable to answer the PPI complaint. Michael J 
Orbell disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for this issue  to be looked at again. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.  I issued my provisional decision in 
respect of this complaint on 22 May 2019, a copy of which is repeated  below, and so it forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I set out the reasons why I thought  that 
Michael J Orbell was responsible for this PPI sale and so it was a complaint  they could have 
looked at. And it set out reasons why I was minded  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 22 June 2019.  At the time of writing Mr and Mrs S told us that they 
had received the provisional decision and they had no further submissions they wished to 
make. Michael J Orbell has not responded to the complaint. But as weve  sent it to its correct 
contact addresses I consider that Michael  J Orbell has had sufficient time to make a further 
submission had it wanted to. So I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it, but because I dont think  I need  to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Ref: DRN49949692Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  Where  evidence is incomplete 
and matters are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my decision  based on what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available  and the wider 
circumstances at the time. 
which business sold the PPI?
I considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments presented  to me, to determine  
whether this Service is able to consider  whether this complaint should be against Michael J 
Orbell. So I looked  specifically at whether Michael J Orbell  sold the PPI and therefore, 
whether it is responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint for Mr and Mrs S.  
what did Mr and Mrs S say about the PPI sale?
They went to Michael J Orbells premises for mortgage advice to make some home 
improvements;
Michael J Orbell arranged a mortgage for them with Abbey National;
They said they did not speak to the lender about  the mortgage or the PPI. 
what did Santander say about the PPI sale?
It did not sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs S;
Michael J Orbell sold it.
what did Michael J Orbell say about  the PPI sale?
Michael J Orbell did not sell any Santander PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
It did sell some life cover through another provider. 
It accepts  the mortgage was sold by its adviser;
It probably acted as an introducer to Santander  so it concludes Santander sold the 
PPI direct to Mr and Mrs S;
It was standard  practice to receive  an introducers fee or commission for the 
introduction;
There is no evidence  for example, the PPI application form  to show  Michael J 
Orbell advised on the PPI sale;
Santander has accepted on other cases that it sold PPI directly  to consumers.
Where the testimony  provided in a case  is contradictory,  as it is here, I turn to the 
documentary evidence  to try to establish  what occurred based on the balance of 
probabilities.
I have looked  very carefully at all the documents  and comments produced by Michael J 
Orbell and the lender. Having done so, I have to acknowledge that I have been  shown little 
from the time of the sale. 
But the records show that Michael J Orbell  was authorised to sell general insurance under 
the Mortgage code compliance board (MCCB)  and I have seen the Introducer  submission  
form that Michael J Orbell  submitted for the mortgage in November 2001.  The advisor name 
on the form is Michael J Orbell. The form also records some information about  three  
insurances; Buildings, Contents,  and Accident, sickness and unemployment. There are three  
Ref: DRN49949693responses that the advisor could choose  from, I am providing cover, I am completing  
Abbey National  insurance,  and Please  contact  Applicant direct.   
It does seem that had Michael J Orbell wanted Santander to sell the PPI directly  to the 
consumer, he could  have  ticked  the last box which asks Santander to Please contact 
Applicant direct. In the form Ive seen, there are ticks for all three insurances against a 
different box, the one that reads I am completing  Abbey  National insurance.  And Michael J 
Orbell has signed  this form which denotes to me his agreement with its contents.       
I have considered Michael J Orbells testimony that this denotes he was introducing  Mr and 
Mrs S to Santander as future customers for insurance business  for an introducers fee. But 
for the reasons given above thats not how I interpret this form. I must  have  regard for all the 
submissions made to me in a case.  In this case I have considered  that Mr and Mrs S 
recalled doing  all their financial work  for this mortgage through  Michael J Orbell. I also 
considered that Michael J Orbell was authorised to advise  about general insurance through 
his membership of the MCCB  and that Santander  believes the PPI was sold in this case 
through Michael J Orbell. 
So at this stage,  I intend to say that Michael  J Orbell is responsible for this PPI sale and so it 
can look at this PPI mis-sale  complaint.
In view of the long wait Mr and Mrs S have already experienced in waiting  to get to this stage 
of our process I have  reviewed the details that have been provided and have gone on to look 
at the merits of the case. Having done so, I do not intend to uphold  the complaint  that the 
PPI was mis-sold. I explain why below.
  
There are several questions for me to answer  in this case. They  are:
 am I allowed to consider this complaint against Michael J Orbell? 
 if I am, to what extent can I consider the complaint points made by Mr and Mrs S? 
 was there a breach of the Mortgage Code in this case?
am I allowed to consider  this complaint against  Michael J Orbell? 
The sale and marketing  of insurance  etc, (including PPI) first became a Financial Services 
Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) regulated activity on 14 January 
2005. That meant this Service  could consider complaints  about  the sale of insurance  
products from that date.  This sale took place in 2004, which  was before that date. So 
Michael J Orbell was not and did not need  to be authorised by the FSA to sell insurance. 
We can look at PPI sales before 14 January 2005 for businesses  like Michael J Orbell only 
when, and to the extent,  they were covered by one of the schemes which  existed before 
then  and known as former  schemes.  
Michael J Orbell was a member of the MCCB from 17 January 2000 to 30 October 2004. 
This means  complaints about it could be considered by the MCAS  - one of the former  
schemes. But I can only consider complaints about  events  that happened  during this time if 
Michael J Orbell then went on to be covered by our scheme. Our records show that it was 
covered by our scheme from 31 October  2004. This means that Im able to consider 
complaints about  Michael J Orbell for events that happened during  the time it was a member  
of the MCCB.
Ref: DRN49949694how much  of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint can I consider?
As explained above, although this office was given permission to consider complaints where 
the business was a member of MCAS, were limited to only being able to consider the same 
issues that the MCAS scheme could. This means  that when considering Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint against  Michael J Orbell I can only consider the points that MCAS couldve 
considered. Please see the extract from the rules, below, which can be found at website:  
fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/DISP/2/7 or a copy can be provided on request.
(5) Where the former scheme in question  is the MCAS  Scheme [Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme], 
a complainant is not to be  treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d) if  
(a) the complaint  does  not relate to a breach of the Mortgage Code;
(b) the complaint  concerns physical injury,  illness, nervous shock or their consequences;  or
(c) the complainant is claiming  a sum of money  that exceeds £100,000.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint isnt caught by (b) and (c) above. So I need to consider whether  or 
not it relates to a breach  of the Mortgage  Code before I can continue.
The Mortgage Code  was chiefly concerned with mortgages and secured lending. There  was 
only a very small part of the code that related to insurance. This can be found in section 3.2 
of the code and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by us;
A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So I can consider  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint but only in relation to the specific bullet points 
above. This means I can consider  the elements of their complaint in which  they say the 
insurance was shown as compulsory  and where  there was no general description of costs. 
I do understand that Mr and Mrs S have raised other  complaint points about the sale of the 
policy. But for the reasons mentioned above Im not allowed to consider anything that isnt 
covered by the four points  Ive listed.
did Michael J Orbell breach the mortgage  code?
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided Im not 
going to uphold this complaint on the limited  basis that I can consider this complaint. I know 
this will be a disappointing result  for Mr and Mrs S so Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs S said the policy was added automatically to their mortgage. Its maybe not 
surprising that there  is no copy  of the application  form the mortgage or for the PPI policy  
considering the sale was over 17 years ago. But from what we know  about  how Santander 
Ref: DRN49949695sold these policies at the time, both through their branch network and over the telephone, I 
think its more likely  that Santander would have made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the policy  
was optional and they would have  secured  their agreement to the policy before adding it to 
their mortgage. So in the absence of any evidence to support the testimony given us by Mr 
and Mrs S, considering how long ago the sale was and what  we know about how Santander 
sold policies  like these, and without  any persuasive evidence to the contrary, I dont think 
theres enough to show  a breach of the Mortgage Code here.  
Ive also looked  at how the costs  were described  to Mr and Mrs S. Ive seen the policy 
schedule sets out the cost of the monthly  insurance  premium and the benefit of the policy.  
And according to the Mortgage  Code,  I only have to see there was a general description of 
any costs, fees or other charges. I think the form shows the general description of the PPI 
costs which  Mr and Mrs S were expected to pay. And I think this satisfies  the Mortgage 
Code  so I dont think theres  been a breach here.  
As I dont think Michael J Orbell breached the Mortgage Code, Ive decided  not to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs S.
I have considered afresh all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of 
any further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I think  this is a complaint I 
can consider against Michael J Orbell. And, having done so, and for the reasons given 
above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  against Michael  J Orbell.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 20 September 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4994969