K821x#15complaint
Mr Vs complaint arises  from a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant
General Insurance Limited.
background
 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in March  2020, part of which  s copied  below:
Mr V made  a claim under his policy with Assurant after he lost his mobile  phone. Assurant
agreed to send Mr V a replacement phone, which was meant  to arrive on 10 March 2019,
however, Mr V says it wasnt received.
Assurant says the couriers it instructed to deliver  the phone  have provided evidence that the
phone was delivered to the correct address and signed for. Mr V says his wife and daughter
were home all day on 10 March 2019  and no one living at the house  has the initial  that was
provided on the signature.
Mr V says he spoke to the couriers who told him the driver had gone to the wrong  address,
as there  was an error on the postcode. Mr V also says the couriers  told him that if Assurant
send another  phone, theyll reimburse the cost. Mr V also points out that this courier
routinely sends a text message once  delivery  is made but no text was sent to him.
Mr V is very unhappy and asked Assurant to send  another replacement  phone.  Assurant has
refused, as it says it has already fulfilled its obligation under the policy.  Assurant says the
postcode and address of delivery  was correct and the couriers had no record of any offer to
Mr V. The couriers apparently also interviewed the driver who said he had returned to the
delivery address  and was certain it was the correct  one but the occupiers wouldnt
cooperate.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and did not recommend that it be upheld, as
he thought Assurant had investigated  the matter with the couriers and there was not enough
evidence that the phone  was not delivered.
Mr V didnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. Mr
V says he has paid for the policy for four years, he paid the excess  when he made the claim
and did not receive  the replacement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant instructed couriers to deliver  the phone  to Mr V. As it was obliged  to provide him
with the replacement, it is therefore responsible for anything that goes wrong  with the
couriers. It did investigate with them, after Mr V told it that the phone had not arrived and
says the couriers  have provided evidence  the courier  was at the correct address at the time
he says delivery was made. However,  the evidence that has been provided to us is not
convincing.
I can see that the couriers had Mr Vs correct address on its system. It has also provided the
GPS coordinates for Mr Vs address and photos taken from google maps  of his house and
Ref: DRN45391482street. However, none of this establishes that the courier  was actually at this address and
delivered the package to the correct address.
Assurant says the GPS  coordinates would have  been taken from the delivery  drivers vehicle
but Ive not seen any independent evidence of this. The coordinates  were  in an email  from
the couriers to Assurant but Ive seen no screenshot or system note to establish that they
were taken from the drivers vehicle at all, or that they were  taken at the relevant time.
I have not seen any contemporaneous  evidence that the driver was at Mr Vs property at the
time he says delivery was made.
I also note the driver apparently went back to Mr Vs property to question  the occupants. If
there were convincing contemporaneous evidence that the delivery had been correctly
made, it seems unlikely this would  have been  necessary.
It is of course extremely difficult for me to be certain about what  happened but I am not
persuaded that Assurant has done  enough to establish that the phone  was delivered to
Mr Vs address. I also have no reason to doubt  Mr Vs testimony that he did not receive the
phone. Having taken account  of all the evidence, I therefore consider Assurant has not yet
indemnified Mr V under the policy.
Given the time that has passed, Mr V might have already replaced his phone.  Therefore if he
would rather have a cash settlement instead  of a replacement  phone then that would seem
reasonable to me. I would invite Mr V to provide details of any such replacement  phone in
response to this provisional decision.
I would also invite Assurant to provide  details  of the cash  settlement it considers appropriate.
I also consider that some  additional compensation is appropriate to reflect  the trouble
caused to Mr V. I consider £50 would be reasonable.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to
provide a further replacement phone or provide  a cash settlement in lieu; and to pay Mr V
the sum of £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
the matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further comments  or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr V confirmed he had nothing more to add. 
Assurant has also responded. It does not agree with my provisional decision. Assurant says 
again that the couriers provided the drivers  GPS or-ordinates for the time of the delivery and 
these show, when entered  into Google  maps, that the driver was at Mr V's address. It cant 
provide screenshots or images of the GPS device in the drivers van, or his hand  held device  
showing these specific co-ordinates. Assurant  says the co-ordinates of the drivers  location 
are automatically sent through to the courier office for it to download  onto its systems, so it 
can provide an accurate  delivery progress on its website. The co-ordinates would not remain 
indefinitely on the device itself for images to be taken.
Ref: DRN45391483Assurant also says that the couriers  normal process, when there is a dispute about a 
delivery having been made, is to make  the driver go back  to the delivery  address too make  
sure they were at the correct location, and to determine that the person who signed for the
package lives at the address  and is recognized by the driver as the person accepting the 
delivery.
Its also part of the couriers  normal investigation to interview the driver and in this case his 
testimony has been very specific and clear stating: GPS correctWe  have received an 
update from the depot which states that driver  has returned to the property and the people  at 
the address are now claiming  that they don't speak English and will not co-operate. He is
100% certain that it is the right property; he is even able to pinpoint  it on street view on 
Google Maps. He checked I.D. when he delivered the parcel and the name was   All 
correct processes have  been followed by driver."
Assurant has therefore asked that I reconsider  my provisional findings.  In the meantime, 
however, it has also stated that the replacement cash  settlement would be £350 which is the 
price of the phone from April 2019. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant says it is normal practice  for a driver to go and try and interview  occupants when 
there has been a disputed  delivery. I have never come across this in any other case. It might 
be this couriers practice but again it would not seem  to me to be necessary if there  were  
contemporaneous evidence of the location  of the driver.  
As set out in my provisional  decision, I have not seen any contemporaneous evidence that 
the driver  was at Mr Vs property at the time he says delivery was made.  The courier  has 
provided the GPS  coordinates of Mr Vs address in an email to Assurant but this doesnt 
establish the driver was at the property at the right time. Ive seen no screenshot  or system 
note - not just from the couriers vehicle or handheld  device but also from the couriers  main 
system - to establish the driver was at the property at the time the delivery was said to have 
been made. 
Given this, I remain of the opinion that Assurant has not done enough to establish that the 
phone was delivered to Mr Vs address.  Taking this together with Mr Vs testimony that he 
did not receive the phone,  I therefore  still consider Assurant  has not yet indemnified Mr V 
under the policy.
Assurant has said the equivalent cost for the replacement phone  would  be £350. I have not 
seen anything to suggest that would not be a reasonable cash in lieu settlement.
Mr V has not stated whether he has replaced  his phone yet or not. If he still wants  a 
replacement phone, he should state  that in response to this decision, otherwise Assurant 
should pay him the £350 it has said would be the equivalent cost, together with the £50 
compensation as set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN45391484my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited  and require it to:
pay Mr V £350 as cash in lieu, or provide a further replacement phone  if Mr V would 
prefer; and
pay Mr V the sum of £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its handling of the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4539148