K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about how Tradewise Insurance Company Limited handled his claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants a cash in lieu payment for his repairs,  and 
compensation. 
background
Mr L was involved in two incidents in January 2018. He called  Tradewises claims line, but 
he wasnt aware he spoke  with an agent  acting  for it. Mr L thought there had been delays in 
his claim.  He thought Tradewise had wrongly held him liable for the second incident.  And he 
thought it had incorrectly recorded  his car as a total write off and this had affected his ability  
to claim damages following a third incident.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Tradewises policy documents informed Mr L that agents could deal with his claim.  She 
thought its offer of £75 compensation for slight delays in receiving information from the agent 
was fair and reasonable. She thought  Tradewise had reasonably  decided  to hold Mr L liable 
for the incident  after considering the evidence available. And she thought Tradewise had 
correctly recorded  Mr Ls car as a write  off. But the car had been  a previous write off so she 
couldnt say that Tradewises  record had had any effect on Mr Ls claim against  another  
drivers insurer.  
Mr L replied that he thought Tradewise had incorrectly recorded his car as a write off as he 
hadnt agreed that it wasnt  financially  viable  for repair.  He thought  this had affected his later 
claim. Mr L asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr L called Tradewises claims line to report his first incident, he said it wasnt made  
clear to him that he was dealing with its agent.  Our investigator has already  explained  that it 
isnt unusual for an agent to respond  to claims and this is made clear in Mr Ls policy 
documents. But Tradewise agreed that it should have been made clear to Mr L in the call 
that he wasnt speaking  directly to it, and it asked the agent  to respond further to Mr L. I can 
see that Mr L was frustrated by this, but I cant see that this caused him any loss. So I dont 
think Tradewise needs to do anything further  about this.
Tradewise agreed  that there had been  slight delays when the first claim was notified. It 
offered Mr L £75 compensation for this. I think thats  fair and reasonable as its what Id 
require in similar circumstances. I havent seen evidence  of any significant  delays caused by 
Tradewise in handling the claims. 
Mr L was unhappy  that Tradewise held him liable for the second incident. The investigator 
has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible  for causing  the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead,  our role in complaints  of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Ref: DRN46587342Tradewise is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Mr L to take over,  
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr L has to follow its advice  in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers  are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
I can see that Tradewise  considered the accident  report  form, engineers  report, Mr Ls dash 
cam footage  and it requested dash  cam footage from the other  party, without success. It 
thought the evidence showed that Mr L was at fault as he entered  a main road from a side 
road and should  have  looked both ways before proceeding. 
Mr L thought the other driver was in error. But I think its reasonable for Tradewise to 
consider how a court would decide  the matter. And it thought, based on its experience,  that it 
wouldnt be able to defend Mr L. So I think Tradewise reasonably investigated the claim  and 
decided liability after considering the evidence available. So I cant  say its done anything  
wrong or require it to change its decision.
Mr L was unhappy  that Tradewise recorded his car as a write  off following the second 
incident. Hed had his car repaired  privately. He said this affected  his ability  to claim against 
another insurer following a third incident. 
Our investigator explained that an engineer assessed Mr Ls car as uneconomical to repair 
following the second incident.  Mr L provided  his own repair estimates, but the engineer 
thought these were  too high. And so I think the car was correctly  recorded as a write off. I 
cant see in the policy that Mr L has to agree that the car wasnt  financially viable  for repair.  
Tradewise later removed  the total loss marker. But there was a previous total loss marker  for 
the car. And so I cant say that the other insurer declined Mr Ls claim just because  
Tradewise recorded  the total loss. And so I dont require Tradewise to pay Mr L any 
compensation for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4658734