K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss A says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case. Having done so, Im not upholding it 
for reason that Ill now explain.
BoS have provided  a copy  of the credit  card application form which Miss A completed. It 
includes a separate  section  headed  Credit  Care dealing with PPI. I can see that Miss A has 
signed in the space  provided to confirm  she wanted to take PPI. And I think  the way the PPI 
is presented made it clear  that she had a choice about taking the cover.  So I think BoS made 
it clear that Miss A didnt have to take out the PPI and that she actively  decided  to do so. But 
I can understand why she might  not remember this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI policy to Miss A. And Ive taken this to be the case  
because this means that BoS needed  to ensure that it was suitable  for her. I dont know how 
it did this. But from what I know of Miss As circumstances at the time, I cant  see any reason  
why it wouldnt have  been suitable. I say this because:
Miss A appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions and limitations.
Miss A says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer at the time. But 
this policy would  have  paid out in addition to any other means  available to her. It could 
have paid out for up to twelve months on a successful  claim if Miss A wasnt able to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. So I still think  she would have 
valued the extra security which the policy gave her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss A. And as it was paid for by 
monthly premiums, it could be cancelled if it no longer  met her needs.
BoS also needed to give Miss A enough  information about the policy  for her to decide  if she 
wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information BoS gave her could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for Miss A, I dont think better information  would have changed her mind  about taking it. I 
think she would still have  thought it gave her useful cover at an affordable  cost.
So I dont  think that Miss A has lost out by anything that BoS may have done wrong when  it 
sold her this policy.
Ref: DRN44670192my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4467019