K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Madison CF UK Limited,  trading  as 118 118 Money,  lent to her 
irresponsibly and without  carrying  out proper affordability checks. She would like all the 
fees and charges associated with the loan refunded.
background
In July 2018 118 118 Money approved a loan of £2,000 for Miss S, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £159 per month over a term of 24 months.  The loan was 
intended to consolidate some of Miss Ss other  borrowing.  When assessing the 
application, 118 118 Money  asked  Miss S about  her financial circumstances and carried  
out a credit check before approving the lending.
Unfortunately, it seems that Miss S ran into some financial difficulties in November 2018 
and may at that time have  entered a repayment  plan which reduced her monthly 
repayments to £125  initially. However, that plan seems to have failed, with the balance  of 
the loan of £2,948.46  being assigned to a third party debt collector in April 2019. Miss S 
has provided evidence  to show that she has made sufficient repayments  to now reduce 
the outstanding balance  to £354.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and concluded that 118 118 Money should not 
have granted  this loan, as it should have been  clear  that repaying  it couldnt have been 
sustainable for Miss S. 118 118 Money  did not accept  that, and asked an Ombudsman to 
review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  it, and Ill explain why.
118 118 Money is aware of its obligations  under the rules  and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat  them here.  But, briefly,  it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure 
that Miss S would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set 
out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means  that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring  financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences
Essentially, Miss S needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere  to repay 118 118 Money  for the loan to be considered affordable 
and sustainable.
Did 118 118 Money  carry out proportionate  checks before granting this loan?
118 118 Money asked Miss S some  questions about  her income  and expenditure and 
carried out a credit check when considering her loan application. The length of the loan and, 
as Ill go on to explain, the information 118 118 Money found from its checks  should  have  
concerned it. It would have been  reasonable for it to carry out additional checks  to get a 
Ref: DRN41912112clearer picture of Miss S financial circumstances, but, even without taking the checks  further, 
I think it saw enough  from the results  of the credit  check to have reasonably concluded that 
Miss S was unlikely to sustainably repay  the loan.
Miss S declared a monthly  income of £2,250 and expenditure of just over £1,000. Those  
outgoings were  broken  down into various  categories, including housing  costs, council tax, 
insurance, food, and amounts needed to service other debts. She estimated monthly 
outgoings of £600 to service existing debts. So, based on what Miss S told it about her 
financial situation, 118 118 Money could  have concluded that she had a disposable 
income of over £1,000, which would have been  enough to service an additional  monthly 
repayment of around £159.
But the results of the credit check it completed showed 118 118 Money a different picture, 
and one to which I dont think it reacted as it should have.  Crucially, it suggested that she 
had a far bigger debt burden, with monthly repayments in the region of £1,400,  made up 
of seven credit card balances (almost  all maxed  out), and nine unsecured  loans  more 
than twice what she had declared in her application. It was also clear that she was 
consistently overdrawn on her current account by more than her monthly income.  Whilst 
she was remaining within the approved  limit, I think the reality was that she was having to 
borrow from a wide range of sources  for day to day living. She was in a cycle  of debt, with 
no evidence of living on any funds  that werent borrowed.
By definition,  the lending  under consideration here therefore cannot possibly be described  
under the regulations as sustainable   as Miss S would clearly have to borrow  in order 
to make repayments. Whilst what happened subsequently doesnt form part of my 
rationale for upholding  this case,  the fact that Miss S had problems making repayments 
within a short time of the loan being approved does bear out its unsustainability. Similarly, 
the fact that the loan was sold on less than a year later also supports that conclusion,  
which 118 118 Money should  have  reached  based  on the information it had available to it 
in July 2018.
Although it hasnt been explored so far in this case, and I am not relying on it to reach my 
conclusion, there is a further debt showing on the credit check that raises concern. 
Described as a revolving credit facility, the credit check showed that Miss S seemingly 
had an approaching repayment of £1,126,  due within the coming payment cycle. This 
would have meant that she needed  over £2,500 to service her debts in the immediate 
term which was under consideration by 118 118 Money  significantly more  than her 
income. However, I have  also considered the possibility that, as a revolving  credit  facility, 
not the full balance may have actually  been  contractually due in the coming  payment.  And 
so the information as presented on the credit check might not present  a fully accurate 
picture. However, if the full balance werent  due in the following cycle, then 118 118 
Money would  have needed  to establish exactly what was due, which it didnt. Given  that 
Miss S already needed around £1,400 to make repayments, excluding this revolving 
credit facility, and at least a modest  estimate of £415 to pay bills and eat, the evidence  to 
suggest she had enough disposable income to take on this additional repayment is weak 
at best.
118 118 Money says that its review into Miss Ss complaint (that is, a retrospective  look at 
what Miss S did after the loan had been  granted)  showed that she settled some of her 
outstanding debt, as expected, using the money  it advanced. I accept that debt 
consolidation was the purpose  of the loan, and that would have had an impact on the 
assessment of expenditure going  forward. However, Ive seen no evidence of 118 118 
Ref: DRN41912113Money making such adjustments and taking  that into account  when assessing the 
affordability of this borrowing for Miss S in 2018. Even retrospectively, 118 118 Money  has 
only been able to pinpoint two fairly minor debts being settled after this loan was granted,  
which it says increased Miss Ss disposable monthly  income  by £92, through  the settling of 
two balances totalling £713   around a third of the sum it decided to lend to her. So I can 
place little weight  on this submission.
Of course,  Miss S was committing to making  repayments to 118 118 Money for 24 months, 
whereas the terms  of the loans 118 118 Money  says she consolidated is unknown.  The 
potential benefit  of Miss S increasing  her monthly  disposable income may only have  been  
shortlived, it isnt now possible to say with any certainty. In the round, I am clear that the net 
positive effect of this lending,  as outlined by 118 118 Money,  has not been shown to either 
be significant or sustained enough to lead to a conclusion  that it made the lending 
sustainable.
So, I think 118 118 Money had enough information  on the credit check  it conducted  to 
see that Miss Ss financial position  was precarious and that she was extensively  
borrowing. It therefore follows that she would have had to borrow  money  in order to repay  
118 118 Money, meaning that this lending  was unsustainable under the regulations  in 
force, and should  not have been  granted.
Putting things right
Both parties  have confirmed that the debt was assigned to a third party in 2019.  118 118 
Money should buy the debt back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is 
not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
It must  remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made  by Miss S made towards the loan as though  
they had been repayments of the principal loan amount of £2,000. Its likely Miss S 
would have made overpayments, so then it must refund  these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.
It must  remove  any adverse information  recorded on Miss Ss credit  file in relation to 
this loan, once  it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to deduct tax from this interest.  It should  
give Miss S a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
Siobhan McBride
Ref: DRN41912114Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4191211