K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting alongside a mortgage  in 1996. It 
gave Mr and Mrs J unemployment cover  and they paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said Mrs J wasnt  eligible for the policy as she 
had an ongoing  medical condition at the time of the sale. 
YBS disagreed saying this would only be a reason  to uphold  the complaint if Mr and Mrs J 
had taken out accident and sickness cover too. So the case  was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint  because it seems  Mrs J wasnt  eligible for 
the policy at the time of applying. 
The eligibility section  of the 1996  policy that YBS provided states  applicants  for PPI must 
meet certain conditions  on the policy start date, one of which  is:
You must be in good health  and not have suffered from any disability or serious 
illness over the past year
It does not state  anywhere that this condition is only relevant if you have selected accident  
and sickness cover. And as Mrs J wasnt in good health, and instead suffered from an 
ongoing serious illness, it seems she wasnt eligible for the cover. I have considered  YBSs 
argument that a pre-existing  medical condition is only relevant to a complaint if the cover 
includes accident and sickness  protection. And whilst I agree this is usually the case, this is 
not what the policy YBS has provided sets out. It clearly states, as shown above, that being 
in good health is an eligibility criteria  for its PPI. I note that the policy states  it should  be read 
alongside the Certificate of Insurance. YBS is unable to provide Mr and Mrs Js certificate,  or 
a sample of such a document. So based  on the available  evidence  I cant fairly conclude  that 
Mrs J met the eligibility criteria. YBS hasnt shown that the condition  set out above wasnt 
relevant to people  who selected  only unemployment cover. This means  I dont think  YBS 
should have sold the policy to Mr and Mrs J.
YBS didnt recommend the cover  to Mr and Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it had to provide clear and fair information to Mr and Mrs J so they could make an 
informed decision about whether to buy it, or not. And it had to make sure that the eligibility 
criteria were made clear to Mr and Mrs J, before they were given the option to take out the 
policy. I dont think it did this. 
Ref: DRN41108752The eligibility criteria were  listed  on the reverse of the PPI application form but it was YBSs 
responsibility to point them out in a clear and fair way. And I dont think  it did enough. I say 
this because had the situation  been properly explained to Mr and Mrs J I dont think  they 
wouldve taken the risk of paying for something  they may not potentially  have  ever been able 
to claim upon.
It follows I think Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of what  YBS did wrong.
putting things right
YBS should  put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, YBS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give 
Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this case.  Yorkshire Building  Society must now pay Mr and Mrs J 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4110875