K820x#14complaint
Mr C took out a packaged bank account  (PBA) with Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) from April 
2010 for which he was charged a monthly fee. He says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr C took out the following accounts with BOS:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
BOS Account June 2002 No
Current account April 2004 No
Ultimate Reward Account  (URCA) April 2010 Yes
Classic Vantage Account May 2018 No
Mr C says that hes not aware  that he agreed to take out the URCA, and he didnt know  he 
had it or was paying fees for it. He also says he didnt know about, and wasnt able to use, 
the benefits.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the URCA was mis-sold but Mr C disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint.
In looking at Mr Cs complaint about the URCA sale I need firstly to consider the following; 
whether he chose to take out the account  and in doing so whether he knew  he had a choice 
between taking out a fee free account or the URCA he bought; and whether BOS advised  
him to buy the URCA or not. 
did Mr C choose to take out the URCA?
Mr C says he has no memory  of taking out the URCA. I dont doubt Mr Cs honest  
recollections but I think his memory is mistaken,  which isnt surprising as it was a long time 
ago. I say this because BOS has provided an application form for the URCA which Mr C has 
signed and dated. So I think its more likely than not that he chose to take the URCA out.
Mr C hasnt said that he didnt have a choice whether  to take out the URCA rather  than have 
a fee free account. Instead he says that he doesnt  remember the sale at all. Mr C had 
previously had a fee free account  with BOS for many years,  so he was aware  they were 
available. And the fees for the URCA would have appeared  on his statements following the 
upgrade of his account. These  were  not insubstantial, so I think  he would  have noticed  them.  
So I think its more likely  than not that he knew he was paying for something  over and above 
his fee free account and he had made  a choice  to do so. I will go on later to consider 
whether he was able to make an informed choice at the time of the sale.  
Ref: DRN47702962did BOS advise him to take out the URCA? 
BOS says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
URCA to Mr C personally or advise him to take it out. Mr C doesnt remember  the sale. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Cs needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that BOS did make  a personal recommendation to him. And based on this services knowledge 
of BOS sales practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that BOS sold 
the URCA to Mr C on an information only basis. This means BOS did not have  to ensure that 
the URCA was suitable for Mr C at the time of the sale but it did have to provide him with 
enough information to make an informed  choice.
did BOS provide Mr C with enough information about the URCA?
I dont know what information BOS gave to Mr C. But BOS was trying to sell him the URCA so 
I think its more likely than not that it gave him a substantial explanation of the product  and 
then followed this up with detailed documentation.
The URCA benefits included preferential rates on overdrafts  and loans; worldwide travel  
insurance, car breakdown cover; mobile  phone  insurance, home emergency cover,  and card 
care protection. The cost of the account was £12.50 a month, but this reduced to £7.50 a 
month if £1000  went into the account. 
BOS has provided evidence that at the time of sale Mr C used the overdraft facility. The car 
breakdown service covered him whether  he was the owner or driver of the car or not; and the 
home emergency cover was there  for him wherever he lived.  So I can see how the URCAs 
benefits would have been of interest  to him. And although again  I dont doubt his honest 
recollections, I think its more likely  than not that he was aware of enough  of the URCAs 
benefits for him to decide to take it out.
So in my view even  if BOS didnt provide Mr C with all the information about  the URCA I think 
its more likely than not Mr C wouldve chosen to take out the URCA anyway. As this was an 
information only sale, it was then up to Mr C if, and how,  he used the benefits.
So overall, I dont  think Mr C lost out in the URCA sale, and I cant  uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4770296