K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the use by Avantia Insurance Limited of a consumer  credit  provider (P) 
to fund his home insurance and with its delay  in requesting payment.
background
Mr S first purchased his home  insurance  with Avantia in July 2016. In June 2018 he received 
an auto-renewal letter to say the policy would be renewed from 13 July. He was then told by 
P that it had declined  to provide credit for him for the new policy.  He received a number of 
reminders from Avantias  agent that administered  the policy  that his payment had been 
declined. He advises  us that he attempted  to make a complaint to Avantia but kept being 
referred to P. He felt that because of the delay in requesting payment he hadnt had the 
opportunity to make other arrangements or seek a policy elsewhere.
Avantia indicated that it had made  it quite  clear in its policy documents that it used P to 
provide credit for annual policies paid monthly.  It also pointed out that it requested  payment  
three days before the policy came into force. It confirmed that the policy remained in force 
pending the complaint and Mr S could  either  make  payments up to date or cancel the policy  
back to when the last premium was paid. Mr S chose to make payment for the premium 
arrears and his policy  was brought up to date.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Avantia had acted reasonably.
Mr S didnt agree and the matter has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
use of credit provider
Avantias use of P is a reasonable way of funding annual policies. Strictly speaking the 
premium is due all at once and it is a concession to allow customers to pay on a monthly 
basis. Insurers might provide the monthly facility themselves  or, as in this case,  use a credit  
provider. Avantia make it quite clear in its policy documents that it will be using P. Indeed 
Mr S had used P for the two previous policy years. So I think this was reasonable.
taking payment
Mr S complains that Avantia, despite  sending the renewal notice on 13 June didnt  request  
payment from P until 10 July. Avantia has explained that it has to wait until the final payment 
is cleared. There is also the point  that it wouldnt be reasonable to take payments any further  
in advance. Although it is an automatic renewal,  the policyholder has the right not to proceed  
with the renewal so it wouldnt  be fair to take any premium until close to the renewal date. 
Im not concerned  here with P, or the notice  it gave to Mr S, but Ive noted  that Avantia kept 
the policy open until the following February  when Mr S was able to pay the premium arrears.  
I think that was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN46691182handling the complaint
Mr S feels  that he received poor customer service  from Avantia as it kept referring his 
complaint to P. As it involved the withdrawal of credit that could be said to be reasonable. 
But the way that a business handles its customer complaints isnt a regulated  activity  which  
falls under our remit to decide, so I cant consider this point further.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4669118