K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr B complain  about Vitality Life Limited. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mrs and Mr B took cover with Vitality in 2015, both were accepted for life cover,  but Mrs Bs
application for critical illness  cover was postponed whilst she underwent tests for a medical 
condition. Mrs B applied later to have critical illness cover added, when her tests had been  
completed. Vitality  didnt  enable this and Mrs B had a period when she wasnt covered, she 
complained.
One of our adjudicators  looked into the matter  and felt that Vitality could have done more.  
They suggested an increase in the distress award made, from £200 to £350, and that the 
requested cover be put into force. As this wasnt agreed the case has been  passed to me to 
consider.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mrs B wanted  critical illness cover and that Vitality have caused some  
delays in this process.  That combined  with the fact that these delays went over a period 
covering Mrs Bs pregnancy, when parents thoughts of insurance protection will be 
heightened, means that I too think the distress award should be increased from the £200 
offered to the £350 suggested by the adjudicator. Im not sure from their response to the 
adjudicators view if Vitality disputes  this, if so they should say so now, giving reasons.
I dont though agree with the adjudicators view that cover  must now be put in place. It
seems to me that Vitality  are still awaiting some medical evidence here, and it isnt 
appropriate for me to insist an insurer take on an unquantified risk. By all means Vitality 
should expedite  matters, and if they do need  more evidence make  it very clear to Mrs B 
what it is that is needed to complete cover, but I dont think I can insist they put a policy in 
force if they are still waiting for risk information.
To take this matter  forward it would  help if Vitality can now confirm what  outstanding 
information there is. And if Mrs B could confirm she still wants cover and hasnt obtained 
this elsewhere whilst waiting. Irrespective of both of these  I still think Vitality should pay Mrs 
B the additional £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Since my provisional decision Mrs B has confirmed she wants to continue  the process.  She 
has questioned  whether  her premium might be higher  as she is a year older. Vitality hasnt 
sent any comment or new evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B was reasonably happy with my provisional  decision, and Vitality had nothing to 
add, I see no reason to depart from it. 
Ref: DRN44215132Looking at the other issue raised  although Mrs B will have to pay slightly more as she is a 
year older, equally she wont have to pay the premiums for so long. So whilst this may be a 
slight disadvantage to her I dont think it is one that warrants an addition award. 
my final decision
Vitality Life Limited should contact  Mrs B within 28 days of when Mrs and Mr B accept this 
decision, if they accept it, with clear details of what extra information it needs to consider her 
for cover. It should also pay her the £150  increase for the inconvenience  and distress of this 
case. Again  within  28 days  of acceptance.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4421513