K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Charter Court Financial  Services Limited trading as 
Precise Mortgages (Precise) acted  unfairly  and unreasonably  when dealing  with their 
mortgage application. They want compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs A wanted to buy a property  and move home, and applied to Precise  for a 
mortgage through a broker. Precise offered them a mortgage. On the day of completion,  
while Mr and Mrs A were  waiting outside  the new property  to move in, they said that Precise 
asked for more information  which delayed completion by a few hours and the removal 
company was unable to deliver their belongings  in time. Mr and Mrs A felt that this was 
unfair and unreasonable, and caused them  stress and financial loss (basic  items had to be 
bought while  they waited  for their belongings to be returned, and the removal company 
charged extra).
Mr and Mrs A complained to Precise. It said that it was about  15 days before completion that 
Precise asked for more information about  Mr As job, confirmation that the last 12 months of 
housing payments were  paid on time and a copy of the shared ownership  letter.  It explained 
that it had made it clear  to the broker  and solicitor that without the information being 
supplied, completion  wouldnt  go ahead,  but despite its efforts  to get the information, Precise  
didnt get it until the day of completion. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs A complained to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld. She said that this was fair and reasonable as offers  could be made subject to 
conditions, including  providing further information to ensure that the mortgage was 
affordable. Precise had asked for the information well before completion  was due but the 
broker took four days to ask Mr A for the information, and in the investigators view failed to 
realise the urgency of the situation.
The investigator pointed  out that Precise emailed Mr and Mrs As solicitors  nine days before 
completion to say if the information wasnt received, the money wouldnt be released. She 
said that it seemed  that this email had been overlooked by the solicitors from the contents of 
a call made the day before completion where  the solicitors  seemed to be unaware of the 
situation. This meant action wasnt taken to delay  completion or provide the information by 
the solicitor. Precise also chased  the broker for the information more than once. The 
investigator said that Precise had acted fairly and reasonably  in contacting  the broker  and 
the solicitor, who shouldve advised  Mr and Mrs A about the options. She also didnt 
understand why the solicitor wouldve told Mr and Mrs A that completion wasnt happening 
on the day, but noted this wasnt Precises responsibility.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They said that the removal company only left because the solicitor 
said that completion wasnt happening that day. The investigator  said that completion had 
happened on the day and Precise had told the broker and solicitor that it would happen. 
Mr A said that this service  was biased  towards lenders and Precise  shouldve asked for the 
information much earlier  before  making the mortgage offer.  He also said that under the 
mortgage regulations,  there was no ground  to require the further  information  and that it 
wasnt reasonable to ignore that Mrs A was told completion would occur by 2.30pm (which  
caused the removal company to leave when this didnt happen as expected).  
Ref: DRN47180202Precise provided a call recording  which showed Mrs A was told on the day of completion that 
the solicitor would be told when the money  would be released but it would be that day, and 
that she wasnt told a precise time when this would  happen. The investigator didnt change  
her view. Mr and Mrs A asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are required to ensure that any mortgage  given to consumers is affordable.  The 
rules on how to assess affordability have become stricter over the years, which shows how 
important this issue has become. All of the further  information required by Precise related to 
the issue of affordability  in my view.
Mr and Mrs As point  is that this shouldve  been considered earlier  before the mortgage offer 
was made.  I can understand their point of view, but its useful to consider  what Precise was 
told in the application form. It was silent about  the relocation of Mr As role and the shared 
ownership scheme. It did however show the considerable distance between Mr As place of 
work (the original one) and the new property. Precise was able to issue  a mortgage  offer and 
ask for further information before sending any money; I dont see how Mr and Mrs A 
wouldve been helped  by a refusal to provide an offer and lenders are able to review  
applications as they proceed  the regulations  allow this. Precise  asked for the extra 
information well before the completion  date, and chased  for it, but didnt receive it.
Its also worth noting that the mortgage offer wasnt withdrawn; what happened  was that 
Precise refused to release the money  until its questions were  answered. This was because 
all the information  held was reviewed by Precise well before completion  was due to occur  
and it was concerned  that affordability remained in question. Given the critical importance of 
this issue, I cant say this is unfair  or unreasonable.
The mortgage regulations make it clear that the ability to ask for more information  doesnt 
mean affordability shouldnt be considered properly from the start. What  this means is that 
the mortgage offer can include conditions that require the provision of more information,  or 
else it can be withdrawn.  In Mr and Mrs As case, the mortgage offer wasnt actually 
withdrawn  Precise asked for more  information  in order to proceed. The mortgage offer 
incorporated the general mortgage terms and conditions, which are important. The general 
mortgage conditions  say theres no legal  agreement until the money is advanced,  and that if 
the information is incomplete, the offer can be withdrawn. The information was incomplete 
and it wasnt unfair  or unreasonable for Precise to say until it was received, the mortgage 
couldnt proceed.
Turning the issue  of the removal company and the information given to Mr and Mrs A by 
their solicitor, that isnt something for which Precise is responsible. And the call recording 
shows that by lunchtime  of the day of completion, Precise  told Mrs A that completion  would 
happen that day and the solicitor would be told the time; it didnt give Mrs A a time within  that 
call. I note that Mr and Mrs A didnt  take out late key insurance with the removal  company. In 
all the circumstances,  I cant  say that Precise was responsible for the removal  companys 
decision to leave.
Ref: DRN47180203my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my 
decision before  2 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4718020