K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in November 2001.  Mrs S says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  
(Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Mrs S says the PPI was added without her consent  and that it wasnt discussed when she 
took the credit card out. So Ive looked carefully at her credit  card application form to decide  
whats most likely  to have happened  at the time.
I accept that I cant know exactly what was said during the meeting between  Mrs S and 
Halifax, but the application form includes a tick box to include PPI. Although the box appears  
to have been pre-crossed before it was printed, the entire application  form is pre-printed.  So 
I think this was the result of a discussion between Mrs S and Halifax.  The form also includes 
another tick box for Halifax Card Protection  which has been  left blank. So this further  
persuades me that a conversation took place and Mrs S chose one of the optional products 
and not the other as thats what suited her at the time. And if Mrs S didnt understand the 
form, or didnt agree  to the PPI box being  selected,  I think  shed most likely have questioned 
it, or not signed  the form.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check  that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. I understand that she was entitled  to up to three months  sick 
pay from her employer,  but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to that, for up to a year.  So 
Mrs S wouldve  been  able to use her sick pay for any other financial commitments she had. 
The PPI wouldve also paid out if Mrs S had lost her job  and from what shes  said, it 
doesnt seem as though she had enough other guaranteed means to sustain her credit card 
repayments if that had happened.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
I want to reassure Mrs S that Ive thought  carefully about everything shes  said. But having 
done so, I dont think that Halifax  mis-sold the PPI to her.
Ref: DRN45244752This means  Halifax doesnt  need to refund everything Mrs S paid for the PPI. But Halifax has 
already offered to give Mrs S back some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I understand that Mrs S hasnt accepted Halifaxs offer yet, but Halifax  will make  
arrangements to pay Mrs S now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524475