K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc reneged on a promise  to pay 
the estate about  £70,000  in interest  payments.
background
The estate  is represented by the executor, Mr M.
Mr O died in late 2002. His wife, Mrs O, reported this to Abbey National at the time, since 
she knew he had some accounts there. The bank  wrote to her in February  2003.  Its letter 
listed five of the accounts, with their balances, and asked her to provide the grant  of probate,  
and also to fill in and return a form which was enclosed with the letter. It said that on receipt  
of those documents, the accounts  would be closed, and the balances would be paid out.
It isnt clear what happened next, except that the accounts were not closed and Abbey 
National did nothing with them. Abbey National subsequently became Santander UK plc. In 
late 2017, Mrs O got in touch with Santander  because she had not heard from it since  2003. 
She told Santander that Mr M was the executor, and so from then on Santander (correctly) 
only dealt with him. Santander wrote to Mr M and asked him what he wanted to do with the 
accounts. It sent him a copy of the 2003  letter, and another  copy of the form. Eventually, in 
2018, Santander told him it would pay the balances of the accounts,  together  with interest on 
all of the balances,  at eight per cent a year from the date of Mr Os death.  The total interest  
came to over £70,000. But not long after that, Santander said it would  not pay the interest 
after all.
Mr M complained, and Santander  paid him £250. Being dissatisfied with that, he brought this 
complaint to our Service. Santander told us that it had only offered the interest in the first 
place because it had thought that Mr M and Mrs O hadnt known about the accounts, and so 
they had been deprived of the money for all of this time. The interest  was meant  to be 
compensation for that. But Santander had subsequently realised that Mr M and Mrs O had 
known about the accounts all along,  and had just chosen to leave them as they were. So 
Santander had concluded that they had not been deprived of the money after all  they had 
had the opportunity to claim it at any time, and could have saved or invested  it elsewhere in 
accounts that would have  accrued more  interest. So Santander had not paid interest.
Our investigator accepted that explanation, and so she did not uphold this complaint. Mr M 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He blamed Santanders  maladministration  for the 
accounts being allowed to remain open  for all of this time.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Santander accepts  that when it did not hear back  from Mrs O in 2003, it should have taken 
some further  action to seek to close the accounts.  It accepts  that its failure to do so, and to 
allow the accounts to remain open  for another 15 years,  was a mistake.  But it does not 
accept that this means that it must now pay interest  to the estate, because   and this is not 
in dispute  Mrs O and Mr M knew about  the accounts all along, and made a deliberate 
decision not to close them.
Ref: DRN49100712There is no suggestion at all that Mrs O or Mr M knew that the accounts  were supposed to 
be closed, and chose  to keep them open  in Mr Os name   in the knowledge that this was 
the wrong thing  to do. I accept that they both acted entirely in good faith. The point is not that 
they did something wrong; the point is that they could have withdrawn the money  at any time 
they liked, as they knew  where  it was. Santander  did not ever withhold or conceal the money  
from them; Santander only (briefly) thought that it had.
The only reason Santander offered to pay interest  at eight per cent a year was to 
compensate the estate  for being  deprived of access  to the money that rightly  belonged to it. 
Once the bank  belatedly  realised that that had never really been the case after all, the bank 
withdrew its offer of compensation. That explanation  is completely plausible,  and I accept it. 
I also think it is reasonable. Santanders inaction in 2003 and since has not caused  financial 
loss to the estate.  Santander did not deprive the estate of the opportunity to earn interest on 
the money by doing something  else with it. So it wouldnt  be fair of me to order Santander to 
pay Mr M £70,000 now, just because it said it was going to and then withdrew that offer.
Santander recognised that Mr M would be disappointed by its about turn, and so it paid him 
£250 for that. I cant comment on that amount, or increase it, because of the rules  under 
which the Financial  Ombudsman Service operates (rules made  by the Financial Conduct 
Authority). Under the rules, I can only award compensation for something  which  happens to 
an eligible complainant, and neither Mr M nor Mrs O are eligible complainants.  In this case, 
Mr Os estate is the eligible complainant, and Mr M represents the estate in his capacity as 
executor. Hes not a complainant in his own right,  and so I cant  compensate  him personally.  
And although I can compensate the estate  for financial  loss, I cant compensate it for 
disappointment or distress, because the estate is a legal entity and so it cannot feel 
emotions. Im sorry if that comes across as a technicality, but Im afraid I cant  help that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4910071