K820x#14complaint
Ms P says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
background
In 2004, Ms P had an elective surgical  procedure for which she paid £3,700 using her 
NatWest credit card.
In 2013, Ms P had surgery to reverse the procedure.
In 2018, Ms P contacted  NatWest to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
At first, NatWest  was unable to find Ms Ps credit card account, so Ms P referred her 
complaint to our service. NatWest sent us evidence to show it had searched its records  and 
couldnt find Ms Ps account. However,  Ms P was able to provide us with some  additional  
information which allowed  NatWest  to find her credit card account.
NatWest declined Ms Ps claim under  section  75 of the CCA  because it was made more than 
six years  after her initial surgery.  It said her claim was therefore  time barred under the 
Limitation Act 1980.
Our investigator didnt  think it was unfair  for NatWest to rely on the Limitation Act when it 
declined Ms Ps claim.
Ms P doesnt think its fair  so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case, Im required by DISP  3.6.3R of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c)codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate)  what [I consider] to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
First, Ms P says its been a battle to get NatWest to admit  she even had a credit  card.  I can 
appreciate her frustration.  However,  as our investigator explained, NatWest  sent us 
evidence to show it had searched its records using the information shed provided and 
couldnt find an account. Fortunately, Ms P was able to provide  us with some  additional  
Ref: DRN46267922information which allowed  NatWest  to find her credit card account and assess  her claim. I 
havent seen any evidence that NatWest  treated Ms P unfairly before she referred  her 
complaint to our service  or that it caused  any avoidable delays.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances,  the finance  provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract  by the supplier. In other words, if the consumer has a claim against  the 
supplier for misrepresentation or breach  of contract, she has a like claim against the finance 
provider.
NatWest says Ms P has waited too long to make her claim. Its referred to the Limitation Act, 
which says a claim must be made within six years of the breach of contract.
Ms P says her implants were  faulty,  which means  the date of the alleged  breach was the 
date of her initial  surgery  in 2004.
Its for a court to decide whether a claim is time-barred. But I can only decide whether its fair 
for NatWest to rely on the Limitation Act to decline Ms Ps claim if I consider the likelihood of 
a court  dismissing  her claim on this basis.
Ms P had six years  from the date of her initial surgery  in 2004 to issue proceedings against 
the supplier for breach  of contract or against  NatWest under section 75  which  means she 
had until 2010.
Im sure Ms P will think this is very unfair as it seems she only learned  that her implants  were  
faulty in 2012  although its not clear  why she then waited almost  six years to make  her 
claim. 
However, the six-year time limit for a breach of contract claim or a section 75 claim runs from 
the date of the alleged  breach   even if the claimant didnt know about  it until much later.
So if Ms P had issued  proceedings  against  the supplier for breach of contract  in 2018  
almost 8 years after the limitation period expired  I think its more likely  than not that the 
court wouldve  dismissed her claim on the basis that it was time-barred. And if a consumers 
claim against the supplier  is time-barred,  she no longer has a like claim against the finance 
provider or it is likewise  time-barred.
As a result, I dont think it was unfair for NatWest to rely on the Limitation Act to decline 
Ms Ps claim. 
I know Ms P thinks this is very unfair   she says she doesnt understand why shes  lost out 
when shes the victim. I have a great  deal of sympathy for Ms P and I dont mean  to dismiss 
or diminish  what shes been through. But NatWest didnt do anything wrong. Its only 
answerable for the suppliers alleged wrongdoing because of section  75  so I think its only 
fair to let it take into account what the law says about when it does and doesnt apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2021.
Ref: DRN46267923Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626792