K820x#14complaint
S, a charity,  is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt inform it of an annual  debit 
turnover limit which must be met in order to qualify for free banking. 
 
background
In September  2018, Barclays wrote to S to explain it was changing the charitys Community  
Account tariff from free banking to one of its standard  price  plans  from November 2018.  It 
said the change  was being  made as Ss annual debit turnover was more  than £100,000.
S complained to Barclays. It said it had been  a customer of the bank since 1984 and had 
always had free banking. It said it had never been  told that there was a limit on turnover to 
receive free banking  and would have operated its accounts differently had it been aware. S 
also questioned  how Barclays  calculated the debit turnover. 
Barclays looked into Ss complaint and issued its final response on 18 October 2018. It said 
the tariff document  relating to its Community Accounts  has included a maximum debit 
turnover since the early 1990s and is available to all its customers as its published on its 
website. It said its decision to implement  the charging structure  isnt going to change. 
S was unhappy with the banks response  and referred its complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He said the banks policy was clear on its website and following a 
review of its Community accounts, it had found  that Ss debit  turnover was over the threshold 
for free banking.  He noted that S had received several years  free banking  despite having a 
high debit turnover,  as a result  of the policy not being implemented.  But he said it is for the 
bank to decide the terms on which it is prepared  to do business  including how it calculates 
debit turnover - and didnt feel he could fairly ask the bank  to reinstate free banking  for S. 
S didnt  agree with our adjudicator, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as our adjudicator and for the same reasons. 
Barclays is entitled to decide the terms of the accounts  it offers to its customers. Back in the 
1990s, it introduced  a limit to the size of charity  that could qualify for free banking  and 
decided how it would  calculate that limit. Its not for me to interfere with that decision making 
process.
In this case, Barclays hasnt charged S for several years when it could have done. Having 
reviewed the charitys accounts last year, it gave S two months  notice of its intention  to 
implement the terms of the account and introduce the charges. While I have sympathy for 
Ss position having been used to banking for free, I cant reasonably  say that its unfair  for it 
to apply the terms and conditions  of the account.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN48831342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4883134