K820x#14complaint
Mr G, on behalf of Mrs G complains that Scottish  Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited 
(Scottish Widows) provided wrong  information about the value of Mrs Gs stocks and shares 
ISA. Hes also unhappy about the level of customer service  they received. 
background
Mr G telephoned Scottish  Widows  on 20 November  2018 to ask about accessing the funds 
from his wifes ISA account. The account was valued at £17,622.64.  After  discussing the 
options, Mr and Mrs G decided to cash in £17,122.64,  leaving £500 in the account to keep  it 
open. 
On 21 November Mr G spoke to Scottish  Widows to find out the exact sale price. He was 
told the price had dropped by £530  from £17,622.64 to £17,092.64. Scottish Widows asked 
Mr G if he wanted to surrender the whole amount or leave  the account  open with a balance 
of £500 (meaning  he would get a payment  of £16,592.64). Scottish Widows explained to 
Mr G that the value was based on the share price on 21 November 2018. Because the price  
had gone down, Mr G decided to take the full £17,092.64 and close the account.  
Mr G made  a complaint  on his wifes  behalf. He was unhappy that theyd received less 
money than theyd been promised during the 20 November 2018 phone  call, and felt 
Scottish Widows  should pay them the extra £530.  Mr G was also concerned about the 
amount of time theyd spent on the phone trying to sort the matter out. 
Scottish Widows  upheld  the complaint. But it didnt agree it should pay Mrs G the extra  £530.  
It accepted itd provided Mr G with misleading  information about the value of his wifes  
account, and that hed spent a long time on phone calls. Scottish Widows explained that it 
shouldnt have guaranteed the value of Mrs Gs account when  they spoke to Mr G on 
20 November 2018. It said it wouldnt have known the correct value until the next day. 
Scottish Widows  said this was a genuine  mistake  on its part for which  it apologised.  And it 
paid Mrs G £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, as well as £12 to cover the cost 
of the phone calls. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Scottish Widows response and referred  the complaint to our 
service. He maintained  that Scottish  Widows  should pay the extra £530. An investigator here 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She accepted Scottish  Widows  had given  Mr G 
the wrong information when he called on 20 November 2018. But she was satisfied that 
despite this error, Mr and Mrs G knew the value of the account would be based on the price  
on the next day, and that they understood the price  could go up or down. The investigator 
felt Scottish  Widows  mistake wasnt pivotal in Mr and Mrs Gs decision  to surrender the 
account  rather  they were unfortunately misled about the amount they would receive. The 
investigator thought  Scottish Widows had done enough to put things right.  
Mrs G didnt agree and raised some further  points with the investigator.  He said it was a 
direct result of information provided  on 20 November 2018  that he and his wife decided to 
keep the account open with a balance of £500. Mr G was unhappy that the account was now 
closed. He also felt the £12 paid by Scottish  Widows  to cover  the cost of the phone calls 
wasnt enough. He said the customer service theyd  received was very poor. To put things 
right, Mr G wanted Scottish Widows  to reopen his wifes account  with a balance  of £500.
Ref: DRN45053052Our investigator put these points to Scottish Widows. It agreed  that Mr G had wanted his 
wifes account to stay open after he spoke to them  on 20 November 2018. But explained that 
during a phone  call on 21 November 2018, when it became clear  the value of the account 
had dropped, Mr G decided to surrender the whole amount and close his wifes  account. 
Scottish Widows  said Mr G had the option of keeping  the account  open, but chose to close  
it. So it didnt see any basis to agree to Mr Gs request  to reopen the account with a balance 
of £500. 
Scottish Widows  said the £12 offered to cover  the cost of the phone calls was based on the 
records it had. But it was happy to consider paying  more if Mr G could provide evidence  to 
support that. Scottish widows maintained the £150  paid to Mrs G for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused was fair. 
Mr G didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. I realise that this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr and Mrs G, but I will explain my reasons.
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr G had with Scottish Widows on 20 November 2018. 
Unfortunately, during  the second  part of the call, Scottish Widows  wrongly  told Mr G he was 
guaranteed to receive £17,122.64  and the £500 he wanted to leave in the account  would 
go up or down depending on the sale price.  Its clear the information Scottish Widows gave 
Mr G was wrong. As this was a stocks and shares ISA, the whole £17,622.64  was subject to 
price fluctuations, not just the £500. 
Scottish Widows  accepted its mistake. But I need to consider if its done  enough  to put 
things right. To do that, Ive looked  carefully at the impact Scottish  Widows mistake  had on 
Mrs G. 
During the first part of the 20 November 2018  call, Scottish Widows confirmed the value of 
the account as £17,622.64 and clearly  explained to Mr G on a number of occasions that if he 
wanted to surrender the account,  the value would  be based on the next days price. So I 
think Mr G was aware the sale wouldnt be based  on the price he was quoted.  
Im also satisfied Mr G was aware the price of his wifes account could fluctuate. This was 
discussed at some length during the 20 November 2018 phone call, where  Mr G asked 
Scottish Widows  why the value had gone down quite significantly over the last six months. 
He also wanted  to know the value  of the account over the last two weeks so he could get an 
idea about how the current value was fluctuating.  
On considering the information Scottish  Widows  provided, Mr G decided to surrender  the 
account. At this point,  Scottish Widows hadnt given  any assurances about  the amount 
Mrs G would receive. 
I can appreciate how Scottish  Widows assuring Mr G later in the call that the sale would go 
through as per the current price  raised  his expectations about the amount Mrs G would get. 
And I can see how that helped Mr G decide  about  whether to keep £500 in the account to 
Ref: DRN45053053ensure it remained  open.  But as Ive said above,  Im satisfied Scottish Widows provided 
Mr G with enough correct  information to enable  him and his wife to make  an informed 
decision about how much  of the ISA to cash in. And on balance, I dont think  Scottish 
Widows mistake was pivotal  to that decision. So I cant say its responsible  for Mrs G losing 
money.   
When Mr G spoke to Scottish Widows on 21 November 2018 it became clear  that the value 
had dropped quite significantly.  Because of this, Scottish Widows wanted to check  there  
hadnt been a mistake  in processing the sale. It also wanted to check  if Mr and Mrs G still 
wanted to keep the account open with a balance of £500, given  the lower  value.  
Whilst I appreciate this took some time, and was frustrating for Mr and Mrs G, it seems 
reasonable to me that Scottish Widows made  these  checks before confirming the situation to 
Mr and Mrs G. Given  the price drop,  it was also good practice  of Scottish  Widows to check  
with Mr and Mrs G if they still wanted  to keep the account open by keeping  a balance  of 
£500.   
Scottish Widows  explained to Mr G that because the 20 November 2018 value of the ISA 
was subject to two further pricings before the sale was processed;  and because  of 
fluctuations in the stock market, the price dropped by more than £500. Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest this price drop was because of any mistake  by Scottish Widows in processing 
Mr and Mrs Gs request  to cash in the ISA. So I cant ask it to pay Mrs G the £530 she lost in 
the sale. I also dont  think the closure  of the account was Scottish Widows fault. Mr and Mrs 
G were given the option to keep the account  open,  but decided  to close  it. So I wont be 
asking Scottish Widows  to the reopen the account. 
I do however think the customer  service  Mr and Mrs G received from Scottish Widows was 
poor. I also think their expectations were  raised and that they spent time and energy dealing  
with their complaint.  Scottish Widows paid Mrs G £150 for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused and refunded the cost of the phone calls.  This seems reasonable to me and in line 
with what Id expect  in similar cases. If Mr and Mrs G have evidence they spent more than 
£12 on phone calls,  then they can provide that evidence  to Scottish Widows.      
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4505305