K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in October  2001. Mr U says Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Us case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  BOS made it clear that Mr U didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  of 
the application form that Mr U completed  more than 15 years ago and I can see he 
ticked the section to confirm he wanted PPI before he checked and signed the credit 
agreement.
BOS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr U so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr U got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible  the information BOS gave Mr U about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  he told us he was 
employed and in good  health   so it wouldve been useful for him if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr U has said, but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr U 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered  to give Mr U back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr U now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4834771