K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about the amount of compensation Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) has offered him in relation to the mis-sale of payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  on his credit card.
background
Mr As complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card. The credit 
card was taken out in October 2007.  
Mr A complained to Capital One that the PPI had been mis-sold.  Capital  One looked at 
Mr As complaint and in January  2018  wrote out to Mr A explaining it thought  PPI hadnt 
been mis-sold PPI. But Capital One did say that Mr A had been  unfairly  charged a high 
level of commission on the premiums he paid, and offered  to refund Mr A the commission  
and profit share it received  that was above  50%.
Capital One worked  this out to be £175.09 (after tax). 
Mr A disagreed and brought the complaint to our service. He thought the policy had been 
mis-sold. Mr A didnt  accept Capital Ones offer of compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and thought  Capital One had mis-sold the 
PPI to Mr A.
Capital One agreed  with the adjudicators findings and worked  out what  it owed Mr A.
Capital One, worked  out that it owes Mr A £525.28 (after tax). And its offer is designed to 
place Mr A, as far as is possible, in the position  he would be in now if he hadnt taken PPI.
Mr A didnt accept this amount either. And he thinks he is owed a lot more in compensation.
He feels that it hasnt been recognised that the PPI was mis-sold and Capital One were  
acting fraudulently in charging him PPI. 
Mr A also thinks  it was intrusive to be asked  about his circumstances in 2007 when the PPI 
was taken. Mr A wants additional  compensation to recognise this. 
Mr A also says his credit  card balance was high for the duration  of his policy meaning he 
paid a lot more towards the PPI over the 11 years. 
In total Mr A thinks he should get around £40,000 in compensation.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and thought Capital Ones  offer was fair and that it 
didnt need to do anything further.
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. As the matter hasnt been  resolved its been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47549352the sale of Mr As PPI policy
I know that Mr A feels strongly  about  how the PPI came to be sold.  But Capital One, after it 
had looked at Mr As complaint initially, thought it hadnt mis-sold him PPI. It had a right to 
look at how it sold the PPI to Mr A and to defend its position if it didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong.
And Mr A had the right to bring the complaint to our service, which is what  he did.
Mr A was unsure as to how the PPI was added and thinks that it was added fraudulently. I 
can see that Mr A didnt tick for PPI on the application form  so it wasnt  added  then. But 
Capital One has said it was added when Mr A called in to activate the card in October 2007 
and that matches  with when his credit card started  and with PPI being charged from that 
point also. 
So I hope that answers that particular query he had. I dont think  it was added fraudulently 
and I am not going to award any additional  compensation on this aspect.
Mr A was unhappy that he had to provide information and evidence about his circumstances 
in 2007 when the PPI was taken. This information  was important and it led to our adjudicator  
considering that PPI had been mis-sold. When this was put to Capital One it agreed.  And its 
offered to put Mr A in the position hed now be in if he hadnt had PPI. 
So I need to consider whether or not Capital One has offered fair compensation, in line with 
our approach, when  we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
Capital Ones offer
Broadly speaking, when  I decide, or a business  agrees,  that a PPI policy  has been mis-sold, 
Id expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they 
not taken out the PPI policy, as far as is possible. 
With a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card this typically  means a refund of all the PPI 
premiums charged,  the credit card interest charged because  of the PPI, any fees/charges 
directly caused by the PPI policy and 8% simple  interest  to compensate  the consumers 
for the time theyve been without the money.
Capital One has all of the information  relating  to Mr As card account.  It has sent us a month-
by-month breakdown showing how its calculated Mr As compensation and its breakdown 
covers the entire period  Mr A held his card and policy.  
So Capital One knows how much Mr A was charged for PPI. Its restructured  the whole 
account to show  what the balance would  have been without any PPI added.  And its offered 
to refund those premiums  and the interest that was charged on them  and also any fees that 
were caused  by the PPI. Capital One has also added 8% simple  interest per year on the 
extra he paid because of the PPI. 
Having looked  at Capital Ones offer of compensation it includes all the elements Id expect 
to see.
Ref: DRN47549353Mr As credit  card balance and his credit card limits
Mr A thinks  he held a high balance on his credit  card of around  £3,000.  And he held this 
balance for a lengthy period. 
But Capital One, as I said earlier, has all the information relating to Mr As credit card.  
Mr As credit  card limit in 2007 when he took the card was £200. In Jan 2008 it was 
increased to £500.  In March 2009 it increased to £1,100. In December 2010  it increased to 
£1,700. In December 2011 it was increased to £2,300, and this limit remained up until   
October 2017 when  it went  to £3,300.
So Mr As balance wasnt always around £3,000 as he suggests. And also,  looking at how 
Mr A used his card he was very rarely ever at any of the limits of his credit  card.  There were 
times when  he cleared  his outstanding balance and there were  times when he didnt spend 
on the card.
I dont think Mr A spent as much as he recalls and so his balance wasnt  as high as he 
thought. This means he paid less for PPI than he remembers.
So Capital Ones offer of £525.28 (after tax) as compensation to place Mr A in the position 
he would  be in if he hadnt taken PPI is fair. 
my final decision
Capital Ones offer of £525.28 (after tax) as compensation to place Mr A in the position he 
would be in if he hadnt taken PPI is fair. It is up to Mr A to decide whether he wants  to 
accept this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4754935