K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that he was mis-sold  an interest only mortgage by a broker which was 
subsequently taken over by Legal & General  Partnership  Services Limited (L&G). For 
simplicity, Ill refer to the broker as L&G, though it had a different name at the time.
Mr M wants compensation for having  been  on a high standard  variable rate for 12 years and 
for not being  able to remortgage  to another lender.
background
Mr M and his then partner approached L&G in March 2006. The adviser  completed  and gave  
them a suitability document  and a key facts review document with a mortgage 
recommendation.  
Under Repayment Method the suitability  document records:
You  wanted to guarantee that your mortgage  is repaid at the end of the term. My initial  
recommendation therefore was that your mortgage be set up on a Capital and Interest basis.  
This proved to be too expensive  for you. I therefore  recommended and Interest only 
mortgage due to the cost. You have  informed me that it is your intention  to convert the 
mortgage to Repayment  once your loans have been cleared.
And under Term this document records:
I have recommended a term of thirty  years  because it fits with your budget  and means that 
you can still look to reduce the term when you convert to a Repayment mortgage.
The key facts document shows that:
-Mr M and his then partner had four existing loans at the time they took out the 
mortgage.
-Mr Ms partner  earned £22,000  a year and Mr M earned £16,500  basic pay a year.
-The property they wanted to buy was valued at £116,000.  The recommended 
mortgage allowed  them to have a maximum of 120% of the value of the property.
Mr M and his then partner took out the recommended mortgage.  The mortgage was for 
£104,400 plus £695 in fees, over a 30 year term. There was also the option of an unsecured  
loan for £16,600.
In 2009, Mr M and his partner split up. The mortgage was transferred to Mr Ms sole name.
In early 2018, Mr M complained to L&G that the interest only mortgage had been mis-sold in 
2006. He said they hadnt been offered a repayment mortgage, even though they could 
afford it. Theyd been offered  a mortgage  for 120% of the propertys value,  and the house 
had since fallen into negative equity. He said he was stuck on a high standard variable rate. 
L&G didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It set out what the documents  completed at the time 
had said. L&G said that these showed  the adviser had initially  recommended a repayment 
mortgage but Mr M and his partner had a £600 budget for the mortgage payment, and it 
would have cost more to have a repayment  mortgage. L&G copied the section Ive set out 
above which recorded the advisers  recommendations. And L&G set out that Mr M had been 
free to remortgage  without a penalty  since 2009.
Ref: DRN43789652Mr M wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. He said he didnt agree the advice  had 
been suitable. He wanted compensation for having  suffered 12 years  on a high standard 
rate, and for not being able to remortgage to another lender. He also said the property had 
been sold in late 2018. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said that the documents showed that 
options had been discussed  for repayment or interest only mortgages. They  also showed 
that Mr M and his then partner had declined the repayment  option on the grounds the 
monthly payments  would be too expensive. 
The adjudicator also pointed out that the recommendation  showed  that the adviser had 
noted that Mr M and his then partner intended to change to a repayment mortgage in future, 
and advised it was open to them to reduce the mortgage term at that point too. And he 
recommended they review options when the initial fixed  rate period ended.
Mr M wasnt satisfied.  He said he now understood  the advice process more clearly  than he 
had in 2006, and at that time hed trusted  the adviser to provide the best possible advice. He 
said there was no evidence that the comments on the documents  were  what he and his then 
partner had said. Mr M said theyd never  been given the option for a repayment mortgage. 
Mr M said the risks should have  been more clearly  highlighted. He believed  that an interest 
only mortgage was the wrong  advice, and so was the product theyd been recommended  
because it allowed them to borrow more than 100% mortgage. Mr M said the adviser hadnt 
discussed payments  for a repayment mortgage.  Nor had the adviser considered a longer 
term of 35 years.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about  took place a long time ago, in 2006. There are time limits 
which govern what  this service can and cant consider. But in this instance, L&G has agreed  
to let us consider the complaint even though it was a long time ago.
Mr M disagrees with whats recorded on the documents completed in 2006. He says theres 
no evidence that the comments on the documents were what  he and his then partner had 
said. And he says they were never  given the option for a repayment  mortgage, which  
conflicts with whats recorded  on the documents.
What was discussed at the 2006  meeting
Where the evidence in a complaint conflicts, I make my decision on whats more  likely than 
not to have happened. Here, I find that its reasonable to rely on the written documents for 
an accurate account  of the facts. It was a long time ago, and written records  made  at the 
time tend to be more  accurate than memories  from some 13 years  later.  As far as Im aware, 
this is also the first time that Mr M has disputed  what was said at that meeting. Importantly, 
copies would have  been given to Mr M and his then partner at the time. The first page  of the 
suitability document  says:
Ref: DRN43789653 I strongly recommend  that you read and understand  the key facts illustration If you have 
any questions about any of these documents, or you feel this Mortgage Record of Suitability 
is an inaccurate record of our discussions, please  contact me as soon as is possible.
Theres no record of Mr M and his then partner going back  to the adviser to say that what  
was recorded  was inaccurate. And they proceeded to take out the recommended mortgage.
So I find that the facts  of what  was said and discussed are as set out in those documents. I 
therefore find that the adviser did suggest  a repayment mortgage,  but that Mr M and his then 
partner declined this option because they wanted  to pay less each  month. I note that this ties 
in with the fact that they already had four existing  loans,  and the mortgage  offered a further 
£16,600 loan facility. 
Suitability 
Mr M believes that the mortgage he and his then partner took out wasnt  suitable because it 
was interest only, was for more than 100% of the value of the property,  and because  the 
adviser should have considered a 35 year term.
The documents show that the adviser  did suggest  a repayment mortgage, which Mr M and 
his then partner  declined. Given that the customers had declined the option of repayment 
because they wanted to pay less, I dont consider an interest only mortgage  was unsuitable. 
The financial  climate in 2006 was different from that of today, and it would be inappropriate 
for me to transpose todays rules and guidelines  backwards to 2006 when they did not apply. 
At that time,  lenders did legitimately offer more than 100%  of the value  of the property.  
I also cant take into account what has happened since  to the property market,  or to Mr M 
and his ex-partner.  Mr Ms told us that the property went  into negative equity, but that 
couldnt have  been foreseen in 2006.  And Mr Ms partner,  who earned more  than he did at 
the time of the advice, left the mortgage.  I cant  hold L&G to be responsible for either of 
those factors which have  led to Mr Ms current financial situation.
Its not clear to me why Mr M argues that the adviser  should have considered  a 35 year 
term. This would have been a more expensive option because the longer the mortgage term, 
the more a borrower ultimately pays in interest.  So I cant  see why Mr M believes that this 
might have been a more  suitable option.
What happened  later
Mr M has said that he wants compensation for having been on a high standard  variable rate 
for 12 years, and for not being  able to remortgage to another  lender.
The mortgage which Mr M and his then partner took out in 2006 had a penalty (Early  
Repayment Charge)  if they paid it off before 2009.  But from that point on, Mr M was free to 
move to another fixed rate deal, and/or to remortgage. That would  be subject only to his 
financial circumstances at the time. So I dont  agree that the 2006 advice meant that Mr M 
was prevented from moving  to a more advantageous  rate and/or lender for 12 years.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN43789654Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4378965