K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs P bought the policy in 2002,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at screenshots of the online application process Mrs P wouldve used at 
the time of her sale.  From  that, I can see there  wouldve  been  a section for PPI, which gave 
an overview of what it was for and what it cost. Then there were two options  to choose from: 
one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Both options were equally prominent.  According to 
the electronic  record of Mrs Ps application,  she chose the option  to buy PPI. So I think  that 
Canada Square  made Mrs P aware she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it, though I can understand if she no longer remembers  doing so after so long.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so they didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs P enough  information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Mrs P chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations.
While Mrs P had some  benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those, and 
it offered her more  comprehensive cover, especially when her benefits  reduced to just half 
pay. Mrs P also mentioned she may have  had a different type of insurance, but that wouldve 
covered different things and wouldnt have been relevant to the PPI. So the policy  would 
have been useful for Mrs P if something went  wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mrs P could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN47060152my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4706015