K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P (the policyholders)  say Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unreasonably 
withdrew cover for a claim they made on their legal expenses insurance.
Any references to IPA include the acts or omissions  of agents working on its behalf.
background
Firstly, I need  to make clear what this decision does  and doesnt cover.  Im focussed on 
those elements of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint which  relate to the claim they made  on their 
legal expenses insurance. Thats what IPA and its agents are responsible for.
Im not considering  the policyholders  allegation  that their package  of household insurance,  
including legal expenses  cover, was mis-sold.  Thats for a different business (X) to respond  
to. And its now the subject of a separate complaint were looking into.
Further, I dont have  the authority to address issues raised which  relate to the conduct or 
quality of the legal services  Mr and Mrs P received. These should  be referred to the relevant 
firm in the first instance, and then the Legal  Ombudsman if necessary.
Mr and Mrs P have  helpfully  provided  a detailed account of events. For brevity Ill summarise 
the key points.
The policyholders bought  their household  insurance  package in April 2016  using a 
comparison website. This included legal expenses cover which was provided by IPA.
In October  2016 Mr and Mrs P had cause to make  a claim.  While theyd been on holiday  a 
neighbour had begun to construct a fence, which they say was inside  an established 
boundary line. As well as encroaching, this action had caused damage to their property.
After a legal  assessment of the policyholders  claim, in January 2017 IPA confirmed they 
would provide support for pre-action correspondence and negotiations. Following a 
surveyors report to determine  the boundary line between properties in September 2017, 
further legal  activity in support of their case was authorised.
However, by July 2018 Mr and Mrs Ps neighbours ceased responding to pre-action 
correspondence. This meant the next step wouldve been to commence proceedings. At this 
point the legal team advised  IPA that it wasnt proportionate to pursue  the case. So, cover 
was withdrawn.
Mr and Mrs P have  raised many  issues  in their complaint. I wont  be responding to each 
point here,  but I can assure them Ive thought about  everything theyve  told us. My decision 
will focus on their key concerns where  IPA and its agents are answerable, including:
-The focus placed on the monetary  value of the claim rather than delivering a remedy,  
for example  by securing a mandatory  injunction through  court proceedings
-The effect of the policy terms which made pursuit of a boundary  dispute through to 
proceedings effectively impossible
-Ambiguity in key policy  terms, specifically the conditions around the legal 
assessment of reasonable prospects for their claim
Ref: DRN40377422-Conflicts of interest  between IPA and the solicitors providing  the legal advice
-The lack of experience of those  providing  the legal advice
-The handling of the claim and complaint, for example inaccuracies and 
inconsistencies in communications
IPA said it had relied on the assessment  of legal professionals  and the terms and conditions  
of the policy. It didnt think it had done anything wrong.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr and Mrs P disagreed,  so their complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I dont doubt the events  of 2016  came  as a shock to Mr and Mrs P. And I can see the stress 
and strain the situation continues to cause them. Anyone in their place  would feel the same 
way  its a horrible position  to be in.
What I need to do though is consider the actions of IPA in meeting its obligations under the 
insurance contract it had with the policyholders. I need to understand if it got things wrong  
and if it did what the impact of this was.
Mr and Mrs P say the crux of their complaint is that the purpose of the legal action against 
their neighbours was to make sure the original boundary is reinstated.  It wasnt about 
seeking a financial  settlement.
In this regard  the policyholders note that in December 2016 and again in October  2017  the 
legal advisers appointed  by IPA from their panel of solicitors said:
There is no monetary value in relation to the claim for trespass and the boundary  issues 
however, the insureds  use and enjoyment  of his property is being affected. The property 
damage element  may contain a monetary value, but we do not have confirmation of this yet. 
In any event, it is proportionate to investigate  further.
Bearing these  arguments in mind,  I turned to consider Mr and Mrs Ps contract of insurance 
with IPA. The key facts summary confirms cover for up to £100,000 of advisers costs  for 
certain types of legal action. This included  support  with problems related to nuisance or 
trespass and for action  against parties  causing physical damage to their home.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ps legal expenses  claim was initially accepted.  An 
insured peril had occurred. However, the policy summary went  on to note significant and 
unusual exclusions or limitations. These included:
It is a key condition of this insurance that there  must be reasonable prospects of success in 
taking legal action  before a claim for legal  costs will be accepted  (see Prospects of Success 
Condition in the main Policy Wording).
General exclusions  are set out in the main policy document. Of relevance in this case, it 
says there  is no cover  where:
Ref: DRN40377423c) A reasonable estimate of your advisers costs of acting  for you is more  than the amount 
in dispute.
h) We form the view that you do not have a reasonable chance of winning the case  and 
achieving a reasonable outcome  [see] Conditions   Reasonable Prospects.
The relevant  policy conditions (bolding is my emphasis)  say:
Reasonable Prospects - at any time we may form the view that you do not have a more 
than 50% chance  of winning the case and achieving a reasonable outcome. If so, we may 
decline support  or any further support. In forming this view we may consider: 
a) The amount  of money at stake.
b) Whether  a reasonable person without  legal expenses  insurance would wish to pursue or 
defend the matter.
c) The prospects of being able to enforce a judgment.
d) Whether  your interests could be better achieved in another  way.
Drawing these matters together, I start by observing that its a requirement of virtually all 
legal expenses policies  that any claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. From  what 
Ive seen, I dont  think  theres actually  a dispute between the parties about that.
However, even if a case has good  prospects  of success, it may not be proportionate to 
pursue. Court rules  aim to discourage people from bringing cases that arent  cost effective 
and the winning party may be penalised  on the costs a court  will award.
This is the nub of this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. They want  a remedy  to their 
situation. Their  prime  purpose isnt a financial settlement. This is perfectly understandable.
Nevertheless, the policy condition for reasonable prospects makes clear  which  factors  would 
determine whether  the policy would respond to a claim. And this not only entailed a chance 
of succeeding  in excess of 50%, but also that a reasonable  outcome  would  be achieved. 
One of the tests open to IPA was whether an average person without legal expenses  would 
pursue matters. Litigation  can be expensive. The average privately paying customer  is 
unlikely to want to bear the cost of proceedings where the potential costs  are out of kilter 
with the potential benefits.
IPA sought a legal assessment of this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ps claim in September  2018, 
bearing in mind the point theyd articulated  about seeking a remedy  to their boundary  
dispute, not a monetary  settlement. They key elements of the resulting advice provided  by a 
partner at the panel solicitors were:
Proportionality in boundary disputes  of this nature is notoriously  hard to precisely  define  
because sometimes there are wider issues in play and a pure analysis of proportionality 
based on the value of the land in dispute or diminution in value of the insureds property 
does not provide a reasonable benchmark.
I think that all the circumstances of the case need to be taken into account including the 
factors mentioned  above, and these  must  then be weighed against the chances of success 
and the costs of proceedings.
Ref: DRN40377424If the chances of success are very high then a landowner may take the view that it is worth 
taking the matter to trial even if the costs of so doing  are much higher than the value of the 
land in dispute, because the chances of success are high and thus there  is a high likelihood 
of the majority of the costs being recovered  from the other side.
Having said that one has to factor in litigation risk and the possibility of losing.
In this case the area in dispute  appears  to be about  500 mm over the length  of the dividing 
fence and I think it would be very hard to suggest that this justifies  court  action and a court 
declaration. Whilst the expert evidence appears  supportive of our clients  case, when one is 
dealing with such small measurements the margin  for error needs to be taken into account.
Furthermore, I would  estimate  that if this case went all the way to trial the costs could well be 
in the region of £60-£75,000 with the loser paying the majority of the winners  costs.  Thus  
there is a possible downside exposure of £150,000  and in my view a reasonable person, 
properly advised,  and without the benefit of legal  expenses  insurance would think  very long 
and hard before exposing himself to that level of risk and expenditure.
Whilst the courts may very well express  a view that a particular case  is a waste  of time, the 
courts are there to resolve disputes as a last resort, and so would not ban a case from 
coming to trial. However a judge  would certainly expect parties in a case such  as this to try 
and resolve matters by mediation and if at the end of the case  the judge felt that 
notwithstanding the outcome, both parties  had been unreasonable the judge may well order 
that each party bears their own costs as opposed to the loser  paying the winners  costs.
Where an insurer withdraws support for a claim as IPA has done here, it isnt for us to look at 
the merits of the underlying dispute.  And unless there was something  obviously wrong  with 
the legal  advice, which isnt the case here,  we wouldnt comment - were not legal experts.
Instead, I need to consider whether IPA has fulfilled its side of the insurance  contract  
reasonably. From what Ive seen  with regard this aspect of the policyholders  complaint  I 
think it has.
Mr P has enquired about obtaining his own legal assessment. Thats  a matter for him. He 
would need to fund any advice, which would  need  to be from an appropriately qualified 
lawyer. Advice would need to consider the terms and conditions  of his insurance  contract, as 
well as the circumstances of his dispute. If that advice was favourable in the key areas at 
issue here, then he could ask IPA to reconsider its position on his claim.
In responding  to the investigators  findings on his complaint Mr P asked her to consider a 
scenario. He invited  the investigator  to imagine:
If I were your next-door neighbour  and whilst you were  on holiday, I demolished your front 
boundary wall between  ourselves and put a boundary fence 400 millimetres over onto your 
front garden so that you could no longer park your car on your drive. The value of the land I 
have taken, even  in London, would  not be worth more than £10,000
For you this is not about money it is about putting right a wrong,  justice.  It is a gross  intrusion 
into your property. You are seeking a remedy not money. You may perhaps also seek to be 
reimbursed costs you have incurred as a result  of my actions.
Arguably this scenario  draws an important distinction with the policyholders  case. This 
boundary dispute  appears to have led to an even more significant impact  than in his case. 
Thats because the siting of the new fence  means  our investigator can no longer park her car 
on her driveway. An even more material infringement of how she can use her home.
Ref: DRN40377425Of course,  we are dealing  with hypotheticals here. But I think  Mr Ps scenario outlines a set 
of circumstances  where, keeping all other matters equal, its possible that a legal 
assessment mightve  resulted in a different outcome  for an insured  person under a similar 
contract.
Mr P asserts  that no boundary dispute,  whatever the circumstances, could achieve funding  
for proceedings under IPAs policy terms and conditions. I dont think its possible to draw  
that conclusion  based only on his particular  experience. But its certainly a matter for IPA to 
determine the risk its prepared to take on and manage, for the premiums it charges.
Mr and Mrs P say theres ambiguity in the policy terms and conditions. Ive thought  about  
this carefully. Drawing on the excerpts Ive already set out, with bolding to highlight  areas of 
argument theyve  raised.
Firstly, the policyholders note that in the policy summary when it sets out the significant and 
unusual exclusions or limitations it says:
It is a key condition  that there  must be reasonable prospects of success in taking legal 
action before a claim for legal costs  will be accepted (see Prospects of Success  Condition 
in the main Policy  Wording).
There isnt a Prospects  of Success Condition. I can see that mayve  caused confusion. But I 
think that wouldve  been short lived because in the general exceptions  section it sets out the 
circumstances when  costs wont be met, when:
We form the view that you do not have a reasonable  chance  of winning the case and
achieving a reasonable outcome [see]  Conditions  Reasonable Prospects.
The reasonable prospects condition is fully articulated in the policy  document. But Mr and 
Mrs P thought parts of this clause were unclear. For example, it sets out the matters IPA 
may consider in forming a view about  whether a reasonable  outcome can be achieved 
by taking legal action.
Mr P and Mrs P argue the use of the word may indicates flexibility  is available to IPA. It 
doesnt have to consider all the matters listed. I think thats a fair interpretation, but it also 
means it can take these  matters into account where  it considers appropriate. Nothing Ive 
seen makes me think the factors IPA took into account in considering the policyholders  claim 
under this condition  were  unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs P focus on the wording  of the clause  which IPA have placed significant reliance 
on in its decision about whether a reasonable outcome couldve been achieved from the 
claim against their neighbour. That is:
Whether a reasonable  person without legal expenses insurance would wish to pursue or 
defend the matter.
The policyholders say the reasonable  person test is unfair. They ask whether a reasonable 
person is a nurse with a family or a rich businessman.  They say the former needs  cover far 
more than the latter. But because of his/her  financial circumstances wouldnt  be able to 
pursue the case.
Ref: DRN40377426I understand the point Mr and Mrs P make. But I think  the reasonable person test is simply a 
framework for thinking about what most people, the average person, would do in the 
circumstances. And in this case, the legal  assessment is that most wouldnt pursue matters 
to proceedings  given  the risks and exposure involved.
The policyholders also say the use of the words would wish to pursue in this clause 
are significant. They  say it sets a lower bar than if it simply read would pursue. They 
argue this is because  the term doesnt imply a person will go ahead with the claim 
regardless, merely they would desire or hope to take on the claim.
My interpretation would be that the reasonable person who wished to pursue matters  would 
do so understanding the extent of the risks and exposure they were taking on (given that 
they were without legal  expenses  insurance).  So, I dont think Mr and Mrs P make a telling 
point here.
IPA hasnt produced  a perfectly worded policy document. For example, it should make  sure 
references to sections tie up properly with the actual headings. But Im not persuaded its a 
material point in relation to this claim.  I think the relevant terms are sufficiently clear  and not 
misleading.
Mr and Mrs P say that when theyve  challenged IPAs  position  on their claim it has changed 
the rationale for declining  it. For example, in July 2018 the focus of its argument  was the 
costs of providing legal  support had already exceeded the value of the claim.  Months  later it 
focussed on the test of what  a reasonable person without recourse to legal expenses  
insurance would do.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs P that IPAs position evolved when it was setting out its arguments  
for withdrawing cover for their claim  between May and October  2018.  I think  it wouldve been 
better if it had grasped the key argument sooner  it was the remedying of their situation  that 
mattered, not the monetary value for things  like getting the offending fence taken down.
Although it seemed to take a while for the penny to drop  IPA did ultimately commission 
fuller advice. And as Ive already set out, I think this set out why it wasnt  proportionate to 
advance the policyholders claim to proceedings. And it resulted in the same outcome as the 
earlier, less rounded advice  there was no longer cover for their claim.
Its important to note, as the policy conditions state, the assessment of reasonable prospects 
isnt a once and forever exercise.  As a case progresses new information, arguments and 
positions emerge.  I can see IPA was clear  with the legal advisers about what  funding had 
been approved  for which activities, for example pre-action correspondence and negotiation.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs P that the assessments  provided by the panel solicitors in 
December 2016  and again  in October  2017  noted their case had prospects of success  and 
was proportionate to pursue. But these assessments  werent cast in stone and made  clear  
the context of further investigation.
The outlook  for a case  can change and its reasonable  for IPA to seek  to manage  its 
exposure by requiring updated legal assessments of the reasonable prospects  for a case. 
So when Mr and Mrs Ps neighbours stopped engaging, that wouldve been  a trigger  to 
reassess the position. This isnt an unusual  or unfair practice.
Ref: DRN40377427Mr and Mrs P note that IPAs policy required them to use legal representatives from its panel 
of solicitors. They believe theres a conflict of interest in the relationship between IPA and 
the legal  advisers  because  of the commercial  agreement  in place between them.
Legal expenses  policies usually give the insurer the freedom to choose  which  solicitors to 
appoint for advice and assistance up to the time where legal proceedings start. Theres 
nothing inherently  objectionable about requiring  policyholders to use services of the insurers 
appropriately trained staff or pre-selected panel of solicitors.
There are exceptions, for example  where  there would be a conflict of interest,  say if the 
panel solicitor would be in breach of their code of conduct by accepting the case, or where 
there was a complex or novel claim that required niche expertise that the panel  didnt have.  
From what  Ive seen, neither is the situation  here.
Mr and Mrs Ps legal advisers were bound  by a separate professional  duty to them.  Ive not 
seen anything to suggest their solicitors failed to live up to that responsibility. While they say 
the firm wrote to them confirming a conflict of interest, as they noted this was at the end of 
the process and appears to be in relation to their disagreement with the advice the legal 
advisers provided. As Ive mentioned already, issues  of professional conduct and service 
quality are matters for the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr and Mrs P also touched on the experience  of the legal advisers working on their case.  
Ive reviewed the case file and can an early  detailed legal assessment  of their claim was 
conducted by an experienced  solicitor, with relevant experience and who was a partner in 
the firm.
Although several  trainee solicitors  also contributed  to the progression of the policyholders 
claim, Ive no reason  to doubt they were properly supervised. In any case  its also clear the 
later telling pieces  of advice were  delivered by experienced solicitors.
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how their claim and subsequent complaint have been 
handled by IPA. They provide the example of the final response letter  they received in 
October 2018. Mr P says:
I take issue  with a number of factual inaccuracies in this letter.  In particular, the re-writing  of 
the position the insurers were taking to assess the claim.
[IPA] states  [panel solicitors] emailed us on the 5 May 2017 and they advised  that a 
surveyors report would be required to determine the exact location of the boundary between 
your property and your neighbours. [Panel solicitors] believed that the report was necessary 
to confirm whether  your claim remained proportionate to pursue. 
This is not the case. On 21 March  2017, [panel solicitors]  wrote  to me, saying a surveyors  
report was required in order to confirm that the claim has prospects of succeeding in excess 
of 50%. Not to confirm that the claim remained proportionate to pursue.
I can see these different responses as to why a surveyors report was necessary wouldve 
been confusing. The right answer was also material to Mr and Mrs P. Thats  because  IPA 
said if the report was to gauge whether their claim was proportionate to pursue then it would 
pay for the report.  But if it was to assess the prospects of success, then in line with policy 
terms it wouldnt be able to meet the costs.
Ref: DRN40377428Ive read the correspondence between IPA and the panel solicitors. This bears out what IPA 
stated in its final response. I dont know why the panel solicitors didnt communicate  more  
effectively with the insurers on this matter. I can see that eventually  they made  the position 
clear to IPA. I dont think it would be fair to hold IPA responsible here.
I know there are other examples of when matters havent progressed  as smoothly as they 
mightve been. There are lessons to learn,  but on balance I dont think these handling issues  
had a significant impact  on the policyholders. I think their experience  is more  a function of 
the number of parties involved and the nature the matters  being dealt with.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs P. But I dont  think it would 
be reasonable for me to require IPA to reinstate legal expenses cover  for their boundary 
dispute in the given  circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4037742