K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained to Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited. She is unhappy about the 
annuity it arranged  for her late husband,  Mr S, in 2007. She believes the annuity  should 
have included a spousal benefit but it doesnt.
 
background
Mr S set up two annuities in 2007. Aviva is responsible for both. One was set up with a 50 
per cent spousal  benefit but the other,  which was a much larger policy,  wasnt. Mr S died in 
2018 and Mrs S expressed her concerns to Aviva. She explained that there  had been  an 
understanding with her late husband  that these pensions  would  both include benefits  
payable to her if she survived  him. She was younger and the company  they ran could  only 
afford to pay for a pension for one of them. She understood that there would  be a spousal  
benefit from both of Mr Ss pensions.
Mrs S pointed out that she had been  named on the pension payment form which had been 
completed in 2007 for this annuity.  And she said that Aviva couldnt  offer any satisfactory  
explanation as to why there was no spousal benefit  on this annuity  when  there was on the 
smaller pension plan.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that the annuity had been arranged in line with the 
quotation it had provided in 2006.  This was for a single  life annuity only.
Mrs S referred the complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. She 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She sympathised with Mrs S but explained that 
the correspondence sent to Mr S in 2006  set out that the quotation was for a single life 
annuity with a guarantee period of five years. This correspondence was returned in 2007 
with the payment form. This form did name Mrs S but the annuity would have been payable  
to her if Mr S had died within the five year guarantee period. The investigator noted that 
Aviva didnt hold any other records of contact with Mr S from that time.
Mrs S didnt agree. She questioned what advice Mr S had been given at the time and said 
that there  was no way he would knowingly have allowed her to lose out on the benefits  from 
this pension. She reiterated  that she had been named for spousal  benefit, and felt that it was 
convenient for any contact records to have been  lost.
The investigator responded to these points but didnt change her view.  As no agreement  has 
been reached the case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I dont uphold this 
complaint.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision Mrs S was hoping for and I do sympathise with her. I 
do note the significant financial impact that losing out on any benefit from this annuity, as 
she had anticipated,  will have on her day to day life.
Ref: DRN40367942However, I can only uphold a complaint when a business has got something  wrong.  In this 
case Im not satisfied that I can reasonably  conclude  that the annuity was arranged  
incorrectly.
There is some weight  to the point  that Mr S did arrange a second  annuity with a spousal 
benefit. This raises the question as to why he didnt do the same with this annuity. But I 
could only speculate about that and I must  have regard  to the actual evidence that is 
available. Aviva says it has no contact records from the time but we do have some 
contemporaneous documentary evidence.
The quotation that was sent in 2006 is available  and was for a single life annuity.  And the 
correspondence sent with it did include an explanation that a joint annuity  could  be provided. 
It also said that Mr S could take advice if he wished. This was the quotation that was 
accepted and returned.
Mr S was then sent correspondence which confirmed  the annuity.  The schedule that was 
included is available  and this set out that this was a single life annuity,  guaranteed for five 
years. It made no reference to any spousal benefit.  
I have considered Mrs Ss recollection,  and the anecdotal evidence of the meeting  with a 
financial adviser when  the plans were  arranged, but I must attach appropriate weight  to the 
contemporaneous documentary evidence. The annuity that was arranged  was consistent 
with the quotation and with the schedule from the time. And Im satisfied that the option of a 
joint life policy was set out along with the option  of taking advice.
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. The balance of the evidence  doesnt 
support the complaint that Aviva set up the annuity incorrectly. The contemporaneous 
documentary evidence  that is available is reasonably clear and suggests that the annuity 
was set up in line with the instructions Aviva  received. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4036794