K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs C complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC wrongly recommended an unsuitable and 
unnecessarily expensive package of insurance policies and with the wrong dates. Their 
business income was wrongly recorded  along  with the taxation position, while the individual  
trusts werent fit for purpose. 
background
Mr W and Mrs C also said that a joint life, first death policy,  with a shorter term, would have 
been significantly cheaper.
Lloyds did not uphold the complaint, and said:
The directors wanted to ensure  that in the event of eithers premature death the 
survivor had the option to buy their shareholding  from the deceaseds estate, and in 
the event of a critical illness that funds would be available  to ease the financial 
situation
The directors valued their business at £1,000,000 and were happy for this sum to be 
used. It was up to them  to decide  how much  protection  they wanted
Cooling-off papers  were issued in April and May 2009
The policies were  written under a Business Assurance Trust (BAT)  with each 
director naming the other as 100% beneficiary;  in the event of a claim,  the nominated 
trustees would  pay monies to the surviving  beneficiary
Details of the policies were previously  provided to Origin  Financial Limited  in 2011 
and Premier Wealth in 2015 - but no concerns  were  raised
A Deed of Appointment of Additional Trustee and  a Deed of Variation of Default 
Beneficiaries were  requested by the directors in 2014
The policies were  set up for business continuity,  not for loan repayment. Any pay-out  
would be tax-free but there may be a tax liability on the premiums paid
The term of the policies were set up according to each directors selected retirement 
age
An adjudicator at this service  broadly  agreed  with Lloyds response, saying he did not 
believe its advice was manifestly unsuitable given:
The advisors suitability letter stated that the directors partners  were  not interested  in 
the business and in the event of eithers death they would prefer  a cash settlement 
rather a shareholding
The business insurance valuation was around £434,000 but Mr W and Mrs C wanted  
a sum of £1 million  assured
The advisor recommended individual critical illness and level term assurance plans 
with a sum assured of £500,000  each  and to run until their respective retirement 
Ref: DRN46503192ages; but that after discussions the directors chose £200,000 critical illness cover 
and £300,000 life cover each
The advisor recommended they increase this cover when circumstances permitted
He explained  the tax implications and suggested they seek further advice about this
The trust documents included the correct  beneficiaries and included  a warning that 
two additional  trustees  should be added
With the benefit of hindsight  a different set-up  might have been cheaper  or delivered 
a better  return but this did not necessarily indicate that the original  advice was wrong
Mr W and Mrs Cs representative did not agree, and said:
This advice arose as a result of a bank loan and the arrangements  should have been 
reviewed when  this was paid off
The policies were  of 22 and 24 years respectively;  the advisor could not have  safely 
assessed Mr W and Mrs Cs long-term  business prospects to make  such a 
recommendation for long-term cover   and for the sum assured
Mr W and Mrs C deny  that they suggested the £1 million cover  sum or the 
subsequently recommended amounts. In any case it was for the advisor to provide a 
detailed calculation to support any valuation  and proposed sums assured
Mr W and Mrs Cs intention was simply to ensure that in the event of eithers death 
the surviving director would have sufficient  money  to purchase their domestic 
partners shares from their beneficiaries
Given that company  valuations constantly change, any policies should have been no 
longer than five or six years in duration; such shorter term contracts  would have had 
much cheaper premiums, something which was of crucial importance to Mr W and 
Mrs C.
Splitting the cover  between term and critical illness policies made a mockery of the 
whole process
The proceeds of Mr Ws policy was set up to pay out to their joint business not Mrs C. 
The policies were  set up such that if Mrs C had suffered  a critical illness, the benefit 
payable under the critical illness policy  was originally  £200,000. In the event of death 
the total under both policies payable was circa  £500,000.  Why is the value of the 
shareholding based on the policyholders  reason for making  a claim and not the 
value of their shareholding?
Also, with Mrs C no longer being  a shareholder  after a claim, and there  being  no 
other shareholders, why would Mr W need  to continue with his policies?
If Mr W was the claimant, with his polices  being written under trust for the benefit  of 
the business, Mrs C would have to raise  enough cash to purchase her brothers 
Ref: DRN46503193shares. The question  then arises as to why Mrs C would  need to continue  with her 
policies; also what would  happen if Mrs C was unable to raise  enough cash to 
purchase her late brothers shares?
Comparative quotations show that a joint life, first death policy would have been at 
least 35% cheaper; also, they would have  paid just 15% of the amount theyve spent 
on premiums if theyd  been recommended a more  suitable  six year policy
A contract  of insurance is a contract  of the utmost good faith. This should  have been 
pointed out to the complainants when they felt the value of the company was more 
than the amount calculated by the advisor. It should have been made clear to Mr W 
and Mrs C that if theyd valued  the shares at, say, £100,000,00 and a claim was 
made, the insurer could simply pay out the companys value as assessed by a 
recognised accountancy  firm, not some dreamt up value
The insurer would be supported in this view by case law which says that one cannot 
make a profit from insurance
The adjudicator  said he was not a financial advisor and it was not his role to decide  
what should have  been recommended. So how could  the adjudicator say whether 
this advice was suitable? 
Before assessing  this complaint I asked Lloyds for quotes for comparable joint policies taken 
out at the same time.  It said:
It did not sell joint life policies such as the type Mr W and Mrs C were  advised to 
start. Its advisors  could  only advise  on single life policies; so it could not provide 
definite joint life quotes from the time
But it had used  an office tool to produce  joint life quotes for decreasing term policies,  
and modified the figures to provide comparable level term policy  quotes
This showed that a joint life cover policy of £300,000 over 25 years would have been 
£5.09 per month cheaper than two individual  policies, while one with critical illness  
cover - for £200,000 over 25 years  - would have  been  £11.21 per month cheaper 
than two individual policies. This included  life cover at no additional cost to the 
customer
It confirmed that it would have paid out on any claim at the full insured  value  and not 
sought an independent valuation of the business
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and mainly for the same  reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did do something wrong.
Ref: DRN46503194As I agree with the adjudicators assessment of all the complaint points I will not repeat all 
these but would like to reiterate some key considerations  in deciding not to uphold  this 
complaint:
The advisors fact find and suitability letter lists a detailed set of figures about Mr W 
and Mrs Cs business including turnover, gross profit, net profit,  valuation,  break-up 
value, employee  wages etc. Given this level of detail, I am satisfied that these figures  
would have been provided  by Mr W and Mrs C, so if there  were  significant errors they 
couldve, and shouldve corrected these
Based  on these figures I think it was reasonable for the advisor to recommend cover 
of up to £500,000 at least. It was then up to Mr W and Mrs C to decide how much  
cover they wanted to take out
I do not believe the amended recommendation of £200,000 critical illness and 
£300,000 was manifestly unreasonable. I see no reason  why Mr W and Mrs C were 
not in a fully informed  position to decide  whether to go ahead with this level of cover
I also dont believe it was unreasonable to recommend policies designed  to run till 
their respective retirement dates. If they felt they were unlikely to want cover for this 
period or didnt  expect to continue with the business for this period, Mr W and Mrs C 
could have questioned this. I dont  believe this was a complex issue  which  needed an 
experts advice in order for them to dispute the recommended periods
Of course, a significantly shorter period of cover would have been much  cheaper but 
this would be true of most, if not all, insurance policies. However, the cost of cover  
would have been even more expensive  at the subsequent renewal dates, 
particularly given  Mr W and Mrs Cs ages at that point. That is why most  people do 
not choose and are not recommended short term policies when they appear to have 
a long-term protection need. I do not accept that Mr W and Mrs Cs situation  was 
fundamentally different, even though business protection  has its own distinct  needs 
and considerations
I have seen no persuasive evidence that Lloyds would not have paid out the full sum 
assured in the event of a valid claim. I do not share  Mr W and Mrs Cs view that this 
would be considered profiting from insurance.  Lloyds has confirmed this
While  Lloyds did not offer joint policies at the time, it was still required to make  a 
suitable recommendation based  on Mr W and Mrs Cs overall needs and objectives. 
So if two separate  policies were  manifestly  unsuitable then the advisor  should  have 
told them  that he could not recommend a suitable  policy/policies
But I do not believe separate  policies  were manifestly unsuitable given they provided 
bespoke cover based on Mr W and Mrs Cs differing ages and likely requirement  for 
business protection
Crucially, I am not persuaded that the cost of separate policies was sufficiently more 
expensive to make this an unsuitable recommendation. Based on Lloyds recent 
calculations (which  I have  no reason to doubt), the difference  in cost was relatively 
small: joint life and critical illness cover probably being available  for around £16 a 
month less than the single policies they purchased i.e. about 6/7% less
Ref: DRN46503195While  Mr W and Mrs C argue they had no need  for separate policies, there was in my 
view at least some value in the additional joint cover, and the cost of this appears to 
have been relatively  small, so I dont feel it was manifestly unreasonable to 
recommend single policies  especially as  Lloyds did not sell comparable joint 
policies at the time
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4650319