K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  (Halifax)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  at a meeting in 2001  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mr S for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ss monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. Halifax says this was £160.12 initially and cost £9.70 a month. 
According to the mortgage application,  Mr S worked in the printing sector and had been  with 
his employer for over a year and a half when he signed the mortgage application. Mr S has 
said he was a factory worker not entitled  to sick pay or redundancy pay. What  I have  about  
his job and length of service makes me think it likely that if he was entitled to sick pay or 
redundancy pay his entitlement  was likely  significantly less than 12 months  full pay.
According to the mortgage application  form, Mrs S was employed as a factory operative and 
had been there over a year and a half when she signed the form. The form indicates her 
earnings at the time were  around two thirds of Mr Ss.
In what they sent us for this sale Mr and Mrs S indicated  they had health issues at the time 
but didnt give any details of these. We asked  for more about this but didnt  receive more.
Halifax has sent us evidence showing the mortgage  account closed in 2003. Mr and Mrs Ss 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs S 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and lcimitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN47243602The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN47243603The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
Ref: DRN47243604drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ss 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs S and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Halifax hasnt been able to give us any 
paperwork for the PPI application. But given how long ago the sale was and how long ago 
the mortgage ended,  I dont find this surprising and it doesnt make  me think  Mr and Mrs S 
didnt complete paperwork for the cover. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said they had no interest  in PPI and have said it was just included  as 
part of the mortgage package. I give their recollections some weight. But they were set out 
for us a great many  years after the sale  so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ss 
recollections were no longer vivid. Also, Ive nothing else to make me think Halifax wouldnt 
normally have given  customers like Mr and Mrs S a choice  about the PPI at the time and 
didnt do so in this case. 
Overall, what  I have  isnt enough to make me think  the PPI was just included  as part of the 
package like Mr and Mrs S recall.  Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely 
Mr and Mrs S knew the PPI was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
Id add that the mortgage application here appears  to have been originated by and sent on 
to Halifax by a third-party intermediary for Mr and Mrs S. Third-party  involvement like this 
would seem to offer even less reason to think it likely Halifax  just included  the PPI with the 
mortgage  as the mortgage product itself was selected by Mr and Mrs S or the third-party,  
not by Halifax.  So this only tends to reinforce  the conclusion I reached  above.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs S say Halifax  didnt give advice. 
But if Halifax  did provide  advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind, I think  its fair to 
proceed on the basis that Halifax  provided  advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  the PPI was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs S. Theres no record of what Halifax  discussed in relation to the PPI. Halifax had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Ss financial  circumstances  from the mortgage 
application, like how long theyd  been  with their employers, the fact their employment was 
permanent (rather than fixed term or short term)  and their annual incomes showing Mr S as 
the higher earner. But theres no specific evidence to show  that Halifax did enough to ensure 
Ref: DRN47243605the PPI was suitable and establish Mr and Mrs S had a need  for it. For example, Ive nothing  
to show that Halifax  asked Mr S about his work redundancy and sick pay entitlements.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-The monthly cost of the PPI appears  to have been affordable  for Mr and Mrs S.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely theyd suffer a loss of income  if 
Mr S couldnt work for a prolonged period, even allowing for the work redundancy or sick 
pay he mightve been entitled  to. By helping  with their mortgage costs,  the PPI benefit 
would help Mr and Mrs S manage  the consequences in that situation   and help reduce 
the chances of their home being  put at risk at what could be a difficult time if Mr S were 
unemployed or too sick to work. In saying  this I also bear in mind Mr S was the higher 
earner and also Mr and Mrs S have told us they didnt have any savings to fall back on. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. There  
was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which wouldve made  it difficult for 
them to claim. The policy  terms didnt exclude  disability claims for pre-existing  health  
issues either  although  we havent been  given  details of any health issues  for Mr S. 
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr S were unable to do his own or any similar job, and unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But it 
still provided valuable  cover given Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and the loss of income 
theyd likely suffer were Mr S unable to work for a prolonged time due to unemployment  
or disability. Also,  as the PPI protected payments on a mortgage  on Mr and Mrs Ss 
home, I bear in mind the potential  consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were to have  become  
unable to make repayments  on loans secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect their mortgage  payments if Mr S were 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have taken 
the PPI without any sense of what  it was for and how much  the premium  might be. But the 
evidence from the time of sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient information 
Ref: DRN47243606about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before 
Mr and Mrs S agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs S all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ss. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs S 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs S would have  acted differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN47243607Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs S had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  them the PPI or advised them 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments if 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of sale that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Although  I 
consider it more likely  than not they knew they would have to pay something for the policy, it 
doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact  premium at the point they applied. But I think it 
unlikely they wouldve taken the PPI without some idea of the approximate cost.  Also if when 
they started  paying  it the cost had been significantly at odds with what theyd expected at the 
sale, its possible they mightve raised  this with Halifax or reconsidered their decision at that 
time. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S wouldve found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs S would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  as there was an additional cash payment. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr S wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim Mr S be unable  to do his own or 
any similar job, and be unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
Ref: DRN47243608the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr S was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs S should the insured risks have become a reality. Also I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr S wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he 
was in permanent  employment and the policy terms didnt exclude  disability claims related to 
pre-existing issues. So I think Mr and Mrs S still had some good reasons to take the policy.  
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs S might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs S from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their circumstances, still had some  
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr S were unable  to do his 
own or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience,  education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what  to do. And 
I accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although, given  their circumstances, on 
balance I think they wouldve  still been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that payment for any claim they made would be 
limited to 24 months. This may have  differed from what they expected and mightve hoped 
for. But its likely Mr S was entitled  to receive  less than 12 months full pay as sick pay and 
his redundancy  entitlement was also likely  less than 12 months  pay. In those circumstances, 
I consider it likely Mr and Mrs S wouldve still thought a policy  that paid up to 24 monthly 
benefit payments  would help them manage the consequences were Mr S unable  to work, 
particularly for a prolonged period, in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy  
allowed for multiple claims to be made, could help reduce  Mr and Mrs Ss outgoings  at a 
difficult and uncertain  time and help reduce the chances of their home being put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs S would still have taken  the policy. It was suitable  for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr S were made redundant, or unable  to work due to accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration,  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN47243609Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they wouldve been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they wouldve been in if they 
hadnt bought the policy. Thats  because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have  
taken it, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation,  as that would put them in a 
better position than they wouldve been in if everything  had happened  as it shouldve done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs S think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN472436010my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4724360