K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a declined claim made under his travel  insurance policy with AXA 
Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
background
While abroad Mr M purchased a single  trip travel  insurance policy online, to provide cover 
from 16 to 23 April 2018. While on his trip Mr Ms bag was stolen and he also had the need 
for medical  assistance.  
Mr M made a claim under his policy for the theft of his bag, as well as the medical expenses 
incurred. AXA declined  the claim.  It said no cover  was in place as the policy  was purchased  
after the trip had already started. Mr M was unhappy with AXAs response and brought  his 
complaint to this service  for consideration. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. They  
considered the terms of the policy to be clear,  in that they highlighted no cover  would be in 
place if the trip had already started  at the time the policy was purchased. Mr M did not agree. 
The matter  has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding  this complaint and will explain why. 
When taking out the policy,  Mr M was sent a welcome email. This email stated Already  
Travelling? If you have purchased this policy whilst abroad this policy  will not
cover you. Taking this into account,  I think Mr M should have been aware that his policy  
would not cover his trip. The terms and conditions of the policy were also available to view 
online, before he took it out. 
In particular the policy defines Trip as follows :
Trip
- Means any holiday, pleasure trip or journey made  by you within  the area of travel shown
in the schedule which begins  and ends in your home area during the period of
insurance, but excluding one way trips or journeys. However any trip that had already
begun when you purchased this insurance  will not be covered, except  where this policy
replaces or you renew an existing annual multi trip policy  which fell due for renewal during
the trip.
It also says elsewhere :
Any trip that has already  begun when you purchase this insurance will not be covered,
except where this policy replaces or you renew  an existing annual multi trip policy which
fell due for renewal  during the trip.
Ref: DRN42314122Mr M made a claim for his medical expenses and the theft of his bad. Neither of these claims 
would be covered under the policy as no cover would be in place as the trip had already 
started at the time of the purchase  of the policy. 
As Mr M could never have received the benefit of the policy,  AXA should  refund the 
premiums he paid,  if it hasnt already done so. But otherwise I think the policy conditions are 
clear and he isnt covered  for his claims, as his trip had started  before  he purchased the 
policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I make no award  against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4231412