K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr E complain  that a car they have been  financing through  an agreement with 
CLS Finance  Ltd (CLS) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs and Mr E took receipt of a used car in August 2017. They financed the deal through  a 
hire purchase agreement with CLS. At the point  of supply the car had already completed 
65,440 miles and was about eight years old.
Mrs and Mr E say they first noticed  the Engine  Management Light was on in October 2017 
and that they called the dealership about the problem.  They reported the problem to CLS in 
April 2018. They said that the cylinder  head gasket had developed a leak and that a garage 
had suggested  the engine  wasnt refurbished but was botched. Specifically they noted that 
the rocker cover hadnt been sealed properly. 
CLS didnt support  Mrs and Mr Es complaint. They  said they were only responsible for the 
condition of the car when it was supplied and they disputed that Mrs and Mr E had reported  
the issue in October  2017. They said the first report of any issues with the car was when the 
coil pack and spark  plugs  were exchanged  in April 2018. 
They commissioned an independent engineers report of the car. The engineer  noted  that 
the engine was misfiring  and that the Engine  Management Light was illuminated.  He 
suggested further diagnosis was required to establish the root cause of the problem.
CLS didnt think this suggested there was evidence of a fault at inception  of the deal. They  
subsequently defaulted Mrs and Mr Es finance  agreement when payments werent received 
and the car was therefore repossessed in October 2018.
Mrs and Mr E referred their complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her 
opinion. She agreed with CLS. She thought the first evidence  of any issues with the car was 
in April 2018; eight  months after purchase and after the car had completed  3,950 additional 
miles. She thought it was most likely that if there were faults with the engine when the 
agreement was struck; they would have shown themselves  earlier and she therefore  didnt 
think it would  be fair to hold CLS responsible.  She also reviewed  the process by which CLS 
had repossessed the vehicle and terminated  the contract. But she didnt think theyd done  
anything wrong  as she noted  that payments hadnt  been received and the business  had 
warned Mrs and Mr E of the consequences.
Mrs and Mr E didnt  agree with the adjudicators view of their complaint. They  said they 
hadnt touched the cars  engine and the garages comments about it being botched 
demonstrated the faults must have been  there  from the beginning. So they asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs and Mr E so please let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN41366582Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs and Mr E acquired their car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our service  is able to 
look into complaints  about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then CLS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied.  The car here was 
around eight years  old and had travelled  about 65,000 miles when Mrs and Mr E took receipt  
of it. I think  a reasonable person would  expect some wear  and tear on a vehicle of this age 
and mileage.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask CLS to put this right. 
But CLSs  responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
CLS are right to suggest that legislation would  encourage us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the case.
Here, I am persuaded that its most  likely the fault first occurred in April 2018. Thats the first 
record we have of anything going wrong.  Id therefore expect Mrs and Mr E to demonstrate  
the fault they complained  of was present from the beginning. But Ive not been persuaded by 
the evidence that thats  likely  to have been  the case.
Mrs and Mr E had been able to drive the car for about 4,000  miles and I think  if something 
was wrong with the engine they would have  not only reported  problems but have had the car 
looked at before April 2018.
Ref: DRN41366583Ive noted that CLS offered to fund some of the repairs if a quote  was provided but 
Mrs and Mr E didnt  provide that quote.  I think CLSs  offer was a fair one and the onus was 
on Mrs and Mr E to demonstrate the extent of any damage and its origins. I dont think, in the 
circumstances, sufficient  evidence has been provided on either  issue and I therefore dont 
think theres sufficient evidence this vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality.
I can see that Mrs and Mr E are also unhappy  about the termination of their finance 
agreement. Ive taken a look at the processes CLS applied and I dont  think  theyve done 
anything wrong. 
The terms of the finance agreement allowed them to terminate the agreement if payments 
werent met. The account was in arrears of over £458 in September  2018 when the default  
was issued. As payments werent received  the account was terminated later that month. I 
dont think CLS did anything wrong.  They were acting within the terms of the finance  
agreement.
The finance  agreement also allowed  them to repossess the car if no more  than a third of 
payments had been received at the point of termination. Mrs and Mr E hadnt  paid this 
amount so I think CLS were able to repossess the vehicle  and use the proceeds of the sale 
to reduce the outstanding  debt.
Overall, I dont  think theres sufficient evidence  that CLS have done anything wrong here and 
Im not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4136658