K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when he 
asked for help in getting money  back on a transaction he had carried  out, but which  he 
thought had amounted to a breach of contract.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr C and HSBC so I wont repeat it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In October  2018 Mr C bought train tickets for two journeys from TrenItalia. One was from 
Milan to Pisa which cost £90.97 and the other  was from Pisa to Milan which cost £20.97. 
These were  two separate  transactions.  Unfortunately both train journeys were  delayed by 
about 2 hours each.  Nevertheless Mr C travelled on the delayed  train.
Mr C feels there has been a breach of contract because  he did not receive the service he 
paid for, and so he brought  a claim to HSBC under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. HSBC rejected  it on the basis that there  had been no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
Mr C was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint 
but didnt think  HSBC had acted unfairly. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. 
I need to consider whether HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr C. I take 
into account both HSBCs  view and that of Mr C. My aim is to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the evidence before me. Where that evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive  
or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, I consider what is more likely to have  happened in the light of the available  evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
When Mr C contacted HSBC he asked to bring  a claim under section 75. In certain 
circumstances, section  75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier  of 
goods or services,  and the provider of the credit, if theres been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
But there are financial limits. For each transaction complained  about  the value of the 
transaction has to be within £100  - £30,000, and in Mr Cs case each transaction was not. I 
appreciate that the combined  total of his transactions was over £100, but it is the transaction 
amount which  is the critical  figure. Section 75(3)(b) says that claims cant  be made,  
Ref: DRN48616652so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding  £100  or more  than £30,000.
In Mr Cs case the price was under £100  and so is not within those limits. 
So, I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for similar  reasons. The claims Mr C wishes  to bring  fall 
outside the section 75 limits  and so HSBC are entitled to reject the claim as it is not one 
Mr C can bring. 
So I cant say HSBC  have  acted unfairly  and Im not upholding  this complaint. Whilst I know  
this must be frustrating for Mr C, Im afraid we cant help. Any dispute he still has should be 
raised directly with the retailer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4861665