K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that GE Money  Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
has unfairly turned down  their claim under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
background
Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare from a timeshare provider on 13 May 2007. Under the 
agreement, Mr and Mrs B bought a number of points that could be used every year in 
exchange for holidays at properties owned or run by the timeshare  provider, so their 
agreement didnt relate to a specific  property.
The agreement cost a total of £27,643  and was partly paid by Mr and Mrs B trading in an 
existing timeshare agreement for £17,905. The balance of £9,738 was paid by taking out a 
loan with GE Money. The loan was for a total of £25,533.01 as it covered  both the cost of the 
timeshare agreement and also credit for refinancing  an existing loan. The loan was closed 
on 9 June 2008.
On 2 February 2018 Mr and Mrs B, through a professional  claims management company, 
complained to GE Money  about the loan.  In particular, they said the benefits of the 
timeshare agreement had been  misrepresented by the provider and, under s.75 CCA, GE 
Money could be responsible to answer that complaint. In addition they complained that the 
credit agreement was unfair  under s.140A CCA. To put right these problems, Mr and Mrs B 
asked GE Money to pay compensation.
GE Money  didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said the way the arrangement was set 
up and paid for meant the CCA didnt apply in the way Mr and Mrs B thought  it did. In 
particular, the loan proceeds were  paid to a different  business than the timeshare provider,  
so GE Money didnt  think Mr and Mrs B got the consumer protection  they thought  they did 
under the CCA. In addition,  Mr and Mrs B were making a claim to which  the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA)  applied. That set out very specific time limits within  which Mr and Mrs B had to 
claim, but they had missed the deadlines  to do so. That meant GE Money said it didnt need 
to consider the claim.
Unhappy with GE Moneys  response, Mr and Mrs B asked for our service to consider the 
complaint. One of our investigators  looked at the issues  and concluded  that there were the 
right types  of arrangements in place that meant Mr and Mrs B could have brought a claim 
under the CCA. But he thought GE Moneys  decision to rely on the LA as a reason not to 
investigate the claim  was fair. So he didnt think GE Money needed to do anything further on 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion our investigator reached for the same reasons.
In response to the claim, GE Money raised  two issues:
Ref: DRN430904021.did the way in which the arrangements were  made mean Mr and Mrs B couldnt have 
made a claim under  the CCA?
2.did Mr and Mrs B bring their claim in time?
For Mr and Mrs B to be able to make a successful claim against GE Money, Id have to find 
that the answer was yes to both of those questions. Having considered the available  
evidence and arguments, Ive found that it was fair for GE Money to rely on the LA as a 
reason not to investigate the claim. That means that GE Money  have a complete defence  to 
any claim made, so I dont need  to make a finding about the first identified question. Ill set 
out my findings on the time limits of each of the two possible claims under the CCA.
The claim under s.75 CCA
S. 75(1)  CCA reads:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly  and 
severally liable to the debtor.1
Mr and Mrs B have  said that the timeshare provider misrepresented to them the nature and 
benefits of the timeshare  agreement and that the provider was the supplier for the purposes 
of s.75 CCA. 
If I were  to find that there  was the right type of arrangements  in place for Mr and Mrs B to 
make a claim, GE Money would normally need  to consider the merits of that claim. But if GE 
Money thought  the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be 
entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering  the claim.  
A claim  for misrepresentation against  the supplier  would be brought  under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887  
that this type of claim is an action founded  in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought  for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under  both of those  provisions,  a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause  of action accrued. 
Here Mr and Mrs B have brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA.  That claim 
was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs B 
had six years from the date on which the case of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal  claim occurred. So in Mr and Mrs Bs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim  for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think  that was the date they entered into the agreement  to buy the timeshare, so 
13 May 2007. It was on that date that, on their case,  they entered  into an agreement based  
on the misrepresentations of the timeshare  provider. They say, had the misrepresentations 
not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare.  And it was on that day that they 
suffered a loss, as they gave up their old timeshare and took out the loan agreement with 
1 GE Money say there isnt the right type of debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  falling within s.12(b) or 
(c) of the CCA. This forms part of the issue to be decided  under question  1 above, but for the reasons 
set out I dont  need  to make  a finding  on this
Ref: DRN43090403GE Money.  It follows, I think the cause of action  accrued on that date, so they had six years 
from then to bring a claim against either  the timeshare provider or GE Money. But they didnt 
contact GE Money about this until 2 February 2018, which was outside of the time limits  set 
out in the LA.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have made several  arguments why they dont think this is 
correct. I will deal with each in term.
They have argued that under s.8 LA, the actual time limit is twelve years.  This provision 
covers actions on a speciality. I do not think Mr and Mrs Bs agreements with the timeshare  
provider and GE Money were anything other than simple contracts, and not specialities. But 
if Im wrong about that, it was held in Green  v Eadie and others  [2011]  EWHC B24 (Ch) that 
any claim brought under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 fell within  s.2 or 9 LA and 
this meant  the six year limitation period was to be used and not the twelve  year period 
specified in s.8 LA.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have also pointed to s.14A LA. It deals with negligence 
claims and in certain circumstances extends the time in which a claim can be brought.  It is 
titled Special time limit for negligence actions  where facts relevant to cause of action  
are not known at date of accrual.  In summary, it states that in an action for damages for 
negligence, a claim must be brought either  within six years from the date of the cause of 
action accruing or from three years  from the date the claimant  knew,  or ought reasonably to 
have known, the facts  about the damage that gave  rise to a claim, whichever was the later.  
I dont think s.14A LA is of any help to Mr and Mrs B as it deals with claims involving 
negligence. Having considered the nature of the sale, I dont think  the timeshare provider 
owed Mr and Mrs B the duty of care needed to give rise to a claim in negligence. But even if 
Im wrong about that, I think that two of the three  concerns Mr and Mrs B have raised would 
have become apparent shortly after taking out the agreement.  I think  Mr and Mrs B would 
have known that something  had gone wrong  within the first few years of membership, so I 
dont think s.14A CCA could have provided  the extension required to mean GE Money  
couldnt have  fairly  relied on the LA. 
Mr B has provided a witness statement that sets out the misrepresentations he said 
happened. They are set out in a pre-printed  form drafted by his representatives. On it he has 
ticked various possible statements about  how the timeshare was sold to say whether or not 
he is alleging that the provider did anything  wrong. For example, he has ticked  to say he  
went to the sales  presentation because he was led to believe hed get a free holiday, that 
hed won something  and the presentation  would only last for a short  time, but he didnt  tick to 
say he thought he was getting  a free gift, food or drinks. But at the bottom of the form, Mr B 
has written out three specific allegations  which I take to be his specific allegations  of 
misrepresentations that he says were made. I will consider  each in turn.
Mr B said he was told availability would  not be a problem when he took out the timeshare, 
but this proved not to be true. He said that he needed to use school summer holidays, but 
when he tried to book there wasnt the availability he needed.  Linked  to this was Mr Bs 
second allegation that he was told the timeshare club was a private members club, but when 
they went on holiday they found that people could buy holidays there on the open  market. 
He thinks this contributed  to the problems he had booking  holidays.
Mr B hasnt set out when  he first discovered these two problems, but I note he took out the 
timeshare in 2007. If s.14A LA applied to this claim, Mr R would have to demonstrate that he 
Ref: DRN43090404brought his claim  within three years of when he knew, or ought to have known, about the 
problems. But he didnt  complain until 2 February  2018, so for s.14A LA to be of any 
assistance to him, he would have to show that he didnt know  about these problems before 
3 February 2015.  That would  mean he would have had timeshare membership  for over 
seven years without realising he had a problem booking holidays and that non-members 
were able to stay at the resorts, which I dont think is plausible.  If this really was a problem 
for him, I would have  expected him to have  realised this in the years shortly after buying 
membership.
Mr Bs third allegation is that he purchased  a specific  named type of timeshare membership 
that gave him an interest in a property,  but he later found out that he couldnt  get any interest 
out of the property until much later and only when  all members  of the club agreed  to sell. 
Having looked  at the product he purchased in 2007 and the named product he has 
complained about,  I think they are two separate  things. He has alleged that he was 
misrepresented the benefits of a product that wasnt actually  for sale in 2007, so I think he is 
mistaken in his recollections.  So overall, I cant see that s.14A  LA is of any assistance in 
extending the time to claim against  GE Money.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have also pointed to the limits set out in s.11A LA, but that 
section applies only to defective products, so does not apply to Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have also said that our own rules say that a consumer can 
bring a complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years  of 
when a consumer  realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives 
are referring to set out the time limits  within  which a consumer  needs to complain to a 
business about a regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  governed  complaint  handling,  so here the complaint  I am considering  is 
that GE Money unfairly turned down their claim about a regulated credit agreement. But the 
reason it decided to turn down the claim was because it didnt think it was legally  liable due 
to the operation of the LA, so that is why I have  considered that legislation.
It follows I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when assessing  the s.75 
CCA claim  and when it said it was brought too late
The claim under s.140A  CCA
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs B could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt  due to the time that had passed.  GE Money 
responded to say it objected to our service  considering this provision as it says Mr and 
Mrs Bs representatives never  raised this in their letter of claim, so we had expanded our 
investigation.
I have read the letter of claim sent to GE Money by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives. The 
letter is five pages  long and refers to s.75 CCA, but doesnt actually set out the basis of Mr 
and Mrs B specific claim. That is contained  in a position statement and in the witness  
statement of Mr B referred to above.  The position  statement  is long (35 pages) and in many 
places repetitious,  but on pages eight to twelve the position on s.140A CCA is set out. So 
although Mr and Mrs Bs representatives didnt actually refer to s.140A CCA  in the original 
letter of complaint, Im satisfied that is something  our service has been asked to consider.
Ref: DRN43090405But in any event, I would be able to consider s.140A CCA even if Mr and Mrs B had not 
raised it separately. Schedule 17 of the Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000 deals with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service and how the FCA sets its rules. Paragraph 13(3)  reads:
The FCA may make  rules providing  that a complaint is not to be entertained (except 
in specified circumstances) if the complainant has not previously communicated  its 
substance to the respondent  and given him a reasonable opportunity to deal with it.
Here I think the word substance means that I can consider the subject matter of a 
complaint, rather than the precise way it is written, communicated  or presented. And it was 
held in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2008]  EWHC  2142 , at paragraph 26:
The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction  is 
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude  within which the ombudsman can 
operate
So even if Mr and Mrs Bs representatives  hadnt mentioned  s.140A CCA  directly, I think  it 
would have been proper of me to consider its effect.
As set out above, the credit agreement ended on 9 June 2008. It was held in Patel v. Patel  
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB)  that when considering s.140A  CCA,  the time for limitation  purposes  
ran from the date that the credit  agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the 
claim was made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation  period  is six years,  so Mr 
and Mrs B would  have to bring an action within six years of 9 June  2008.  As they didnt  do 
that, I think they brought their claim too late.
GE Money  didnt assess any s.140A CCA claim and I think  it should  have done so, so I cant 
say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim.  But for the reasons set out above,  I dont 
think it would  have  upheld  the claim if it had properly  considered it. So I dont think it needs 
to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs claim against GE Money 
Consumer Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4309040