K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited (PLACL)  has acted 
unreasonably in deciding to pay her late husbands  annuity to his daughter, rather than to her.
background
In 2013, the late Mr W set up a new annuity scheme with PLACL. It had a 10-year guarantee 
period, meaning  his annuity would pay out for 10 years,  even if Mr W died before the end of 
the 10 years  and the annuity payments had to be paid to someone else.  He sadly died in 
2015, and after reviewing all the available information about Mr Ws wishes,  PLACL decided 
it would  pay the annuity to his daughter, and not to Ms F.
Ms F complained, highlighting that she was his widow and should have received these monies.
Our adjudicator looked at the case and thought that PLACL had acted within  the terms and 
conditions of the policy in using its discretion about  to whom it should  pay the annuity. Ms F 
disagreed, although didnt  say why, and asked an ombudsman to look at the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In addition  to the points of argument 
raised by both sides, Ive reviewed several  documents to help me decide  this case, and 
having done so Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as per the terms and conditions of the policy, I can see that PLACL is indeed entitled 
to exercise its discretion  in deciding to whom  it should pay an annuity in the event of the 
annuitants death before the end of the guarantee period, as follows:
Payments will be paid by Partnership to an individual or individuals decided  upon 
at the discretion of Partnership after taking  into account any personal  wishes  
previously expressed by the Principal Annuitant
Ive gone on to think about  whether it appears  to me that PLACL exercised that discretion in 
a fair and reasonable way. It has explained the evidence it used in order to reach its 
decision, none of which indicates  that Ms F would obviously be the most appropriate 
beneficiary. In particular, I have noted  the following:
-Mr Ws Declaration and Acceptance form when setting up the annuity  with 
PLACL, which  sets out that there  is no dependant listed on the policy.  Ms F is not 
mentioned anywhere.
-Mr Ws will, which specifically sets out that he is making no provision for Ms F, 
having done so in his lifetime.
-The fact that Mr W and Ms F were  separated.
I also note that PLACL has reviewed its decision following  submission of further  evidence  by 
Ms F, but did not conclude that the information she had provided materially altered its 
conclusion. In short, I have seen no evidence of PLACL acting outside of the terms and 
conditions of the annuity, or in an unreasonable or unfair way.
Ref: DRN42295212It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and PLACL  doesnt  need to 
do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4229521