K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about a short-term loan granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Ms W says she couldnt  afford this loan and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford it when she took it out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed one short-term loan for Ms W in June 2016. The loan was for £400  and 
was due to be repaid  over three  months. Ive set out the details below.
loan no. applicationprincipal  amount 
(£)no. of repayments 
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 15/06/2016 400 3 512
One of our adjudicators has looked into Ms Ws complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld. She thought the checks QuickQuid carried out were not proportionate. 
And thought  that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen this loan 
wouldve been unaffordable for Ms W and would not have agreed to it.
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, 
the case has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Ms Ws loan.  And thought that had it done so, it wouldve likely 
understood that this loan was not sustainably affordable for her based on the disposable 
income she had available. These findings  were set out in some  detail in a view letter to the 
lender.
Quick Quid responded  to adjudication raising two points. It first said:
In response  to the assessment of Ms W's complaint, which  recommends CashEuroNet  UK 
uphold loans  funded post 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot agree  with the 
recommendations. Please note that in our prior responses we provided detailed  information 
indicating why these  loans were responsibly lent to Ms W. Therefore,  we agree that this case  
should be moved to the ombudsman queue for a final decision.
QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business submissions  to us where it said:
 
We started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June 2014  and all the 
changes were completed by 28 February  2015. Starting 01 March  2015 before Ms W 
borrowed her loan,  QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review  that is consistent  with 
the FCA Handbook and that was in place at the time we received  authorisation by the FCA. 
We confirm that this assessment was conducted  properly  and individually for this loan.
Ref: DRN41731732This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic  argument  directly and through 
earlier final decisions. So I am not going to expand on this point any further here, though  I 
have considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Ms Ws complaint and what  both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Ms W borrowed  the loans in question.  Bearing  in 
mind the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN) and its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Ms Ws complaint and the points put forward  by 
both parties.
When Ms W took out the above loan with QuickQuid,  she borrowed £400, due to be repaid 
over three months, and the highest  of her repayments was £512. At the time Ms W applied, 
QuickQuid recorded  her monthly income as £1,100 and her total monthly living  expenses  as 
£575. It broke down  these  expenses into monthly  figures of - £150 for housing, £75 for 
utilities, £50 for transport, £75 for food, and £150  for her regular credit commitments. It also 
had a section  labelled  other  where it recorded  a monthly figure of £75.
Given both the size of loan 3, and the highest monthly repayment due in relation to Ms Ws 
stated monthly income, I think QuickQuid  needed  to do more  to ensure Ms W could  afford to 
Ref: DRN41731733meet her repayments  on this loan in a sustainable  way. I think  that to do so, it needed to look 
further into Ms Ws financial  circumstances. So that it could gain an up to date picture of her 
regular monthly income, as well as her monthly outgoings. This would include her current 
monthly living costs, any regular credit repayments,  and an up to date position on any 
outstanding short-term credit commitments she may have entered  into recently.
 
From QuickQuids submissions to our service,  when it assessed  Ms Ws applications, it 
seems to have included a monthly estimated disposable income figure  (EDI), which it says 
it used to assess the affordability  of Ms Ws application. I dont know exactly how this was 
calculated but I understand it incorporated information about monthly credit commitments  
from Ms Ws credit file checks.
But QuickQuid hasnt  provided me a copy of the credit check  it said it ran, so I cant see what 
allowances its made from what it found on the credit check, and whether this included any 
outstanding short-term lending. And from what I can see, in this case, it doesnt seem like 
the EDI  was any different to the figures  Ms W disclosed herself. So, from what Ive seen, I 
have insufficient  evidence available to say whether  or not QuickQuid carried  out 
proportionate checks. So Ive looked at the evidence Ms Ws provided, to work out what I 
think proportionate checks wouldve shown QuickQuid at the time. 
Having done so, I think proportionate checks wouldve shown  QuickQuid  that  Ms W owed 
in excess of £750 to another  short-term  lender  in the month her first payment was due. And 
that when this amount was deducted from her declared monthly  income of £1,100,  along 
with the regular monthly credit commitments  and living expenses she disclosed of £575, 
wouldve meant that her current  monthly expenditure already exceeded her income, and she 
was in no position to be able to meet even the smaller repayments on this loan sustainably.
QuickQuid has argued that: As detailed in Ms W's contract,  this loan was due to be repaid 
over the course  of 3 monthly repayments,  which allowed Ms W time to put aside funds to 
account for the final repayment. 
Ive considered QuickQuids point here, but I can see that in the months leading up to taking 
out this loan, Ms W was borrowing similar  amounts from other  short-term  creditors  every  
month. And she seemed unable to maintain her repayments on these credit commitments 
from her available  income and/or savings without needing to borrow  further. And instead,  
she seemed to be taking  out additional short-term loans each month to plug a hole in her 
finances; a hole that grew further  with the additional interest applied to each agreement.  
I think its therefore more  likely, that proportionate checks  wouldve revealed to QuickQuid 
that Ms Ws current  pattern  of needing to borrow  to meet existing short-term debt was likely 
to continue. And that her monthly commitments towards  this short-term debt, meant that her 
disposable was insufficient to meet both the smaller earlier, and larger  later repayments  on 
this loan sustainably.  So as a responsible lender, I think QuickQuid would not have agreed 
to this loan knowing  this. 
Ref: DRN41731734what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to the above loan 
for Ms W. So it needs to refund all of the interest and charges Ms W paid on this loan.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loan it agreed  in June 2016
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Ms Ws credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Ms W still owes some of the principal  balance she borrowed on this loan, QuickQuid may 
use that refund,  to repay the outstanding  principal  balance  owed.  If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any principal balance outstanding, there is still a 
sum outstanding, a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should be arranged.
If QuickQuid no longer owns this debt,  it needs  to buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms W.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4173173