K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a store card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
On this particular  complaint,  our adjudicator requested more  information about Mrs Ss 
employment circumstances as shed stated she was part time employed. Mrs Ss 
representative responded by telephone  to say she was employed and told us the name  of 
her employer. 
Following our adjudicators assessment, Mrs Ss representative responded again  saying she 
was part time employed, but no further  details  were provided. Ive also noted that on another 
complaint brought to our Service by Mrs Ss representative in relation to a policy  sold in 2003  
by the same business,  they were unable  to confirm any further details such as the number of 
hours worked per week and our adjudicator also attempted to contact Mrs S directly but 
there was no answer. 
For the purposes of my decision,  Ive considered it more likely than not that Mrs S was part 
time employed at the time of this sale, but for at least 16 hours per week as theres no 
supporting evidence that she wasnt after numerous  information requests from our Service.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
I think FICL made Mrs S aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ss store card application form. On this 
form there was a section  with the heading ACCOUNT COVER  (Only sign this box if 
Ref: DRN40768592you require Account Cover). Mrs S has signed the box to agree to take out PPI as 
well as signing the overall application.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But FICL did still have to give Mrs S good  enough information  about the policy  
so she could decide if she wanted to take it out.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
But based on the available information, it seems likely Mrs S was eligible for the 
policy and doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. Based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the policy  
couldve been useful  to her, particularly as shes told us she had no other  means of 
making her repayments if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was made 
unemployed. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments.  But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4076859