K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about the service  she received  from Connells Limited (Connells) 
throughout her mortgage application.  
background
Ms S became a lifetime  member of Connells Mortgage Services  in April 2016 at a cost of 
£499. Having  used Connells services previously when buying her first property,  Ms S sought  
a new mortgage  deal and so arranged  a meeting with one of Connells advisors. 
Ms S has complained about  various examples of poor service  she received throughout her 
application, which she says has caused her a great  deal of distress and inconvenience. This 
includes:
Feeling her first appointment with the advisor was rushed, lacked detail and meant 
she was not given enough information  about how the re-mortgage would work;
Being  asked whether shed received a key facts  document, and then never being 
sent any such document;
The Connells advisor failing to apply for enough  funds for the re-mortgage   leaving 
a shortfall of around £1,300  and when attempting to contact the advisor who 
arranged the application, Ms S was informed  she had left the organisation;
In an attempt to rectify  the situation,  the advisor that took over the application then 
added a larger amount onto the loan than was required, which Ms S felt compelled  to 
accept in order ensure  she was able to complete within the tight timescales 
remaining.
Ms S complained to Connells about  the service shed received, saying she had lost 
confidence in the organisation, and requested a refund of her lifetime  membership fee. 
Connells noted that the service theyd provided Ms S had, at times,  fallen below  an 
acceptable standard and acknowledged  that their communication could have been better. So 
they offered  Ms S £100 as a gesture of goodwill  in recognition of the distress  and 
inconvenience suffered, but refused to refund her membership fee given  that she had 
already used the service twice. 
Our investigator upheld  Ms Ss complaint in part. She agreed that the service  provided had 
been poor and felt that further  compensation should be paid. So the investigator 
recommended that Connells pay an additional £75, but she didnt think it would be fair to ask 
them to refund the membership fee given  that Ms S had made use of Connells services.  
Ms S accepted the investigators recommendations, but Connells disagreed with any 
additional compensation being paid, as they considered their original offer to be fair and 
reasonable. So the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for the same reasons  as the investigator, and I consider a total of £175  to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN47893062Connells say it would  be unfair for any further compensation to be paid as there is no real 
evidence that theyd done anything  wrong.  But this is in direct contradiction to what theyd 
said in their final response, where they awarded £100 in recognition  of the lack of service 
and lack of communication when the original [advisor] left. And I further agree with the 
investigator that it appears Connells made  various  avoidable mistakes  during the application,  
such as failing to send the key facts document despite checking with Ms S whether it had 
been received,  and making a second  error  in terms of the amount of borrowing required  all 
of which  wouldve added  to Ms Ss frustrations.
Connells submit that £100  is fair compensation. So Ive considered whether, in the 
circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience suffered. The power  to make such an award is provided for in 
DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which  sets out that I can 
award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer.  But such 
an award must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or 
inactions) have had. 
So in order to award further  compensation  to Ms S than the £100 already  offered, I would  
have to be satisfied  that the wrongful actions of Connells have  had a greater impact than just 
minor inconvenience or upset, which I think it has in these circumstances. For example, I 
can see that Ms S discovered there were not enough  funds  for the re-mortgage  while  she 
was on holiday,  which led to additional  stress in having to sort everything out while  she was 
away, which she says ultimately  ruined the trip. Ms S was also dealing with an illness  in the 
family at the time, and says that Connells errors and poor service  caused her additional 
anxiety. 
So, having  considered the individual impact the poor service  had on Ms S, I consider a 
further award of £75 to be fair in the circumstances. But for the same  reasons as the 
investigator, I do not feel it would be fair to ask Connells to refund Ms Ss membership fee, 
given that shed already made  use of their services. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I direct Connells Limited to pay a total of £175 compensation 
(including the £100 already offered)  within  28 days of being notified  by us of Ms Ss 
acceptance of this decision  thereafter interest to accrue on that sum at the simple  rate of 
8% per year until the date of payment (less  any tax properly  deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789306