K822xComplaint
Mr W is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance;  BPF), following his claim under Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in 
relation to a fixed  term loan he took out to finance solar panels. 
Background 
Mr W is represented in this complaint. Many  of the submissions made, have been put 
forward by his representatives. But for the sake of simplicity I will just refer to them as 
Mr Ws comments. 
In 2013, Mr W entered an agreement with a third party, S, for the installation of solar  
panels on his property. As part of the arrangements, Mr W entered  a fixed term loan with 
BPF to pay for these panels  and their installation. S acted as the credit intermediary for the 
loan. The total amount,  including  interest  and charges,  repayable over the 10 year term of 
the loan was around £12,500. 
Mr W has said that he was told that the solar  panels  would produce  energy, which  would not 
only reduce the amount he needed  to buy from his energy supplier, but that the energy 
supplier would also pay for the energy  he produced. He has said S told him this would  mean 
the solar panels  would be self-funding.
However, Mr W has said that the solar panels did not result  in the level of savings required 
to offset the monthly cost of the loan. And he considers S to have misrepresented  the 
arrangements. Mr W says he would not have  taken the loan had he been given correct  
information. 
Mr W contacted  BPF in 2017  to raise his concerns.  He then wrote to them  in 2018 and 
claimed under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). He said that, as a result of sections 
56, 75 and 140A of the Act, BPF was responsible for the actions  of S when it sold the loan. 
And he wanted BPF to cancel the loan, refunding all payments made with interest. Mr W 
also wanted payment  of commissions BPF paid to S. 
BPF accepted that S may have made misrepresentations  and said it was willing to uphold  
the claim.  Based on estimates from a solar industry  expert it had commissioned, BPF offered 
to put Mr W in the position he would be in if the savings from the solar  panels over the term 
of the loan equalled the repayments Mr W had to make under the loan. 
Mr W remained unhappy with this and, as BPF had provided the appropriate referral rights, 
he brought his complaint tot his service. He said that he didnt purchase the system  simply to 
self-fund; he was advised that this was an investment and would make money. Mr W was 
also concerned  about  the cost of future maintenance of the solar panels. 
Our first investigator thought the offer put forward by BPF was fair and reasonable. It meant 
that Mr W would not be likely  to pay any more for the panels than he would save  from having 
them; i.e. that they would be self-funding. And that any savings from having the solar  panels 
beyond the end of the loan term would provide Mr W with additional  benefit.  The investigator 
also felt that it would not be appropriate  to directly  compensate Mr W for not achieving the 
level of additional  benefit S may have  said the solar panels would provide.
Ref: DRN46867062Mr W remained unsatisfied. He said that the potential future  cost of maintenance of the 
panels meant that he was likely  to be out of pocket. And that he would  be willing  to consider 
a more disruptive  outcome. Mr W also said that had he not been tied into the loan, he might  
have used this money  elsewhere. And that he has suffered distress and inconvenience, and 
incurred legal costs,  which  he should  be compensated for. 
Another investigator thought the issue seemed to be not so much  about the solar panels 
themselves but that Mr W was led to believe that the panels would pay for themselves. And 
that a fair outcome  would be putting Mr W in a position where the panels were self-funding 
over the original term of the loan, which is what BPFs offer did. The investigator also 
confirmed that BPF was willing  to pay Mr W £100 in compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay in responding to Mr Ws claim. And that it would add 8% 
simple interest to any amount Mr W has overpaid on his loan. The investigator  said that it 
would not be fair to make a misrepresentation true, and any misrepresentations over an 
investment return hadnt led to an identifiable loss for Mr W. 
Mr W was still unwilling  to accept this as a resolution  to his complaint. He felt the level of 
compensation should be higher, taking  into account  his personal circumstances, the legal 
costs hed incurred,  and the loss of investment return he might have achieved elsewhere. As 
such, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of this service is to resolve disputes  fairly and reasonably with minimum formality.  
Generally speaking, where a financial business is found to have  not acted appropriately, we 
will try to put the complainant in the position  they would have been in had the business acted 
appropriately.
In this case, the complaint  that this service  is able to consider is whether BPF has 
appropriately dealt  with Mr Ws claim under the Act. Whilst  the mechanisms of the Act mean 
that BPF can be held liable for certain  actions of S, it should be borne in mind  that it was not 
BPF that made any of the representations to Mr W at the time of the sale.
BPF has accepted that S may have made misrepresentations when Mr W entered the 
arrangements, including the fixed term loan.  As such, my decision is focussed on 
determining whether the offer made by BPF is fair and reasonable. In cases like this one, 
determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. There are a range of options that might 
be considered  fair and reasonable. 
So, my role is to determine  whether BPFs offer was an appropriate response to Mr Ws 
claim under the Act, taking into account  the particular circumstances of this case.
BPFs initial offer, prior to Mr W referring  his complaint to this service, was to reduce the 
outstanding balance of the loan to just over £2,400  and to reduce  the interest rate on this to 
0%. This was based  on calculating the estimated savings to Mr W of having the solar panels,  
over the 10 year period of the loan, as being  around £8,000  and deducting from this the 
amount Mr W had already  repaid on the loan. This would  mean  that the cost of Mr Ws 
purchase of the solar  panels would be offset by the benefits they would provide, or that they 
would be self-funding  over this 10 year period.  
Ref: DRN46867063I agree  with the investigators comments that the main issue  Mr W has isnt the solar panels  
themselves, but rather financial  implications  of these. And the offer initially put forward by 
BPF in response to the claim largely  addresses this. The outcome of this offer is that Mr W 
would not suffer a direct  financial loss from purchasing the solar panels. 
Overall, I consider BPFs  financial offer in response to Mr Ws claim to have been largely 
appropriate. 
However, it did not take into account  the fact Mr W has been  without  money he otherwise 
would have had, had the arrangements been self-funding from the start.  Mr W has also said 
he was led to believe he would get a return on the panels. In his claim letter to BPF he said 
he was told:
The monthly benefit would outweigh the finance  payments and there  would be a 
slight surplus each  month.
Since that time, he has said that the whole point of him buying the solar panels  was to help 
him save money, not merely pay for itself over a 10 year period. And that, as a result of the 
misrepresentations, he has had money  tied up with the solar panels that could have been 
used elsewhere.  
However, whilst  I note the different figures Mr W has referred to, the comments  in his claim 
letter suggest that the return he expected was slight. And ultimately  the panels are likely to 
offer a return.  BPF has now also agreed  to add interest to the overpayments Mr W has made 
and so he has a reasonable  return on this money.  And after the 10 year period used by BPF 
for its calculation, the savings provided  by the panels will solely  benefit Mr W. Additionally,  I 
have not been provided with any evidence that persuades me Mr W was actively seeking to, 
or was most likely to have, made  other investments.
As such,  I am not persuaded that it would be fair for BPF to be required to compensate  Mr W 
any more than its current offer in relation  to the misrepresentations it is accepted that S likely 
made to Mr W. 
As noted above,  the complaint being considered is BPFs response to Mr Ws claim.  It would  
not be fair or reasonable, nor would it be in line with the Act, to hold BPF responsible for any 
distress or inconvenience caused to Mr W by S.
Mr W has though said that, as a result  of BPFs failure to initially  respond in 2017,  he has 
had to seek legal representation and BPF should cover the cost of this. However, it was 
Mr Ws choice  to seek legal representation that he has to pay for. Free legal advice is 
available. And, crucially, legal representation  is not required  to either  complain to financial 
businesses or to bring a complaint to this service.  So, I do not think BPF should be 
responsible for Mr Ws choice here or the cost of this. 
There was a delay  in BPF appropriately  responding to Mr Ws claim though. And I think  £100 
is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate him for the impact of this, taking  into account 
the particular circumstances  of the case and Mr W himself.
Taking all of the circumstances of this case into account, I think BPFs  offer is fair and 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN46867064Mr Ws loan has, I understand, continued  to operate as normal during the course of this 
complaint. So the exact settlement will depend on the status of the loan at the time of 
settlement. But BPFs offer is that it will:
rework Mr Ws loan so that he pays no more toward this than he is estimated to save  
over the 10 year period of the loan as a result of having the solar  panels.
pay Mr W a sum of interest relating to any payment  Mr W made  toward his loan that 
was more than he would have, had the arrangement been self-funding already. This 
interest will be 8% simple  interest  from the date of each overpayment  to the date of 
settlement, and
pay Mr W £100 compensation.
If Mr W accepts this offer, he can choose  to pay of the outstanding debt directly  or continue 
to make monthly payments. BPFs offer includes the option for Mr W to either continue with 
the current monthly repayments of £104.66  or to reduce these to £63.26 paid over a longer  
period until the debt is settled.
If BPF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
the interest payment, it should tell Mr W how much  itss taken off. It should  also give him a 
certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs.
My final decision
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  has made  Mr W an offer. I conclude that the offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited should settle this complaint as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4686706