K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains about the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  in respect  of its handling of 
her debt. She wants RBS to allow her to consolidate her debt into her mortgage. 
background 
Mrs G held a mortgage  with RBS and also had unsecured borrowing from RBS, including  an 
overdraft, personal loan, and credit  card.  
In late 2017, Mrs G lost her job. Over time Mrs Gs debt had increased, so that by early  2018 
her unsecured debt stood  at around  £31,500. 
Mrs G was in touch  with RBS, discussing her debt.  
In January 2018 she provided evidence of her income and expenditure. This demonstrated 
that she was unable to sustain or reduce her debt. 
RBS decided to issue a notice of default  in relation to her personal loan and overdraft. 
RBS left Mrs Gs credit  card in place, and this continued to incur interest and charges. 
Mrs G sought  advice  and, with her advisors, wrote to RBS in February 2018. She stated that 
she had considerable equity in her property and asked that she be allowed to re-mortgage, 
to allow  the bank to secure  her debts, and to give her a lower  interest  rate on her debts. 
RBS did not respond  to this letter. 
In March 2018, Mrs G and her advisors  sent a further letter, asking for a response.
In April 2018, after the default  notice  had expired, RBS decided to close  Mrs Gs loan and 
current accounts. It had not responded to her letters at that point. 
Mrs G complained to RBS. She felt that RBSs delay in responding to her letter had caused  
her accounts  to be closed  before her application  could be considered. 
RB responded to Mrs G in May 2018, over several letters. RBS acknowledged that it had 
received but not responded to her application. RBS sent Mrs G some flowers as an apology.  
Under a separate letter, RBS defended its decision to have applied interest to the accounts. 
And finally, when Mrs G advised that the flowers she had received were  damaged,  RBS 
offered Mrs G £30.80  compensation  in lieu of the flowers. 
Mrs G was not happy with this and contacted us. She felt that she had been treated unfairly 
and had been denied the opportunity to have her application considered in the context of 
open accounts. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view to the parties. 
Over this time, Mrs Gs credit card had remained open and accruing interest. 
Ref: DRN41970392Following discussion with our service, a settlement of the complaint  was reached. It was 
agreed that RBS would refund to Mrs G all interest charged to her credit card after it 
received her income  and expenditure form in January  2018.  It was also agreed that Mrs G 
would be permitted to apply for her debts to be consolidated with her mortgage, and that 
RBS would pay to Mrs G £200 compensation for not responding to her letters. 
RBS paid £200 compensation to Mrs G in December 2018. Mrs G then corresponded  with 
various parts of RBS, seeking  to have her application to consolidate her debt considered. 
Mrs G received emails which appeared to pre-judge her application,  and which suggested 
that she would not be allowed to consolidate  her debt with RBS under any circumstances. 
Mrs G therefore  contacted us, and asked that we issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mrs Gs frustration and upset at the situation she found herself in. Her 
debts became very large  and she clearly  wanted to avoid her accounts  being closed. In 
suggesting a change to her mortgage  it is apparent that Mrs G felt her situation could be 
significantly improved with some  co-operation  from RBS. 
I accept that it was poor service for RBS to not respond to her letters  in February and March 
2018. I appreciate  that it must have significantly added to Mrs G anxieties to have 
approached her bank  with a proposal  and then to have two months  of uncertainty while 
waiting for a response which  was not forthcoming.  In this time, she continued to incur 
interest charges  on her credit card, and her accounts were then closed after a default, 
changing the context of her application to re-mortgage  to what she considered an even less 
favourable one. 
I do, however,  have  to acknowledge that by the time Mrs G and her advisors approached 
RBS with a proposal,  Mrs G was in very serious  debt and RBS had already made  significant  
steps towards closing  her accounts and enforcing the debts, having already issued a default  
notice in January  2018. 
I must also make clear  that RBS have not at any time been obliged  to lend, or to extend its 
lending, to Mrs G. Businesses  are entitled to decide whether to lend to any customer, based 
on their own criteria and commercial view.  
For these reasons, I previously indicated  to the parties that I did not consider it likely that the 
outcome of Mrs Gs application was affected  by the delay in RBS processing her request, 
but I thought that the delay had caused Mrs G significant distress and inconvenience. 
I also considered that RBS should  have stopped applying interest to Mrs Gs credit card 
account at the point  when  it became aware that she could not afford  to reduce her debt. For 
this reason, I recommended that RBS refund any interest charged  after it had received Mrs 
Gs income and expenditure information, in January  2018. 
RBS agreed to consider an application  for debt consolidation  from Mrs G, but as it did so it 
stressed that it would  not be under any obligation to extend lending to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN41970393Mrs G has now provided evidence  which suggests that the decision not to extend lending to 
her was made prior to her applying. 
Whilst I understand that RBS was under no obligation to agree Mrs Gs application, I do not 
think it was consistent  with the spirit  of the settlement to have allowed an application which 
would be pointless.  
For this reason, I consider that RBS should pay a further  £100  compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  to Mrs G, on top of any compensation already paid. 
I also make  formal my view that RBS should  refund any interest charged to Mrs G after 23 
January 2013.  
I realise that Mrs G would like me to direct RBS to accept  her application to remortgage, as 
this would have  the most  profound effect  on her circumstances. I cannot, however, direct  a 
business to lend to any individual where  it does not wish to. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mrs G, but I hope that I have explained my 
reasons and the limitations in helping  her situation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to:
Refund to Mrs G any interest charged  to her after 23 January 2018.  Such  refund  may 
be offset against Mrs Gs debt; and 
To pay Mrs G £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience  (including the 
£200 compensation already paid to her, but not including the £30.80  paid in lieu of 
flowers). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197039