K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc was wrong to offer him a credit  card in 2008  and 
subsequently raise his credit limit and shouldnt have sent out a further card after the 
balance was paid off in 2013.  
background
In December 2008 Mr C took out a credit card with Capital One. His credit limit was 
increased in May 2010. The outstanding  balance  was paid off by his mother  in 2013  but a 
new card was sent to Mr C and he spent  money on this. Mr C defaulted on his payments in 
May 2014 and no interest or charges  have  been applied since  then. The account  was 
subsequently sold by Capital One to another business. 
Ive explained  to Mr C in a separate decision that we cant consider his complaint  about 
Capital One offering him a credit  card or raising the limit on that because these were made 
out of time. But I said we could consider the complaint about sending a further  card in 2013.  
I let Mr C and Capital  One know my initial thoughts on this complaint earlier this month. I 
said it did appear his mother had spoken  to Capital One in early 2013 and subsequently paid 
off the balance on his card. Mr C believed she asked for the account  to be closed at that 
time. Unfortunately a call recording  wasnt available but the notes from the time didnt  say 
either Mr C or his mother asked for that to be done.  
And as the balance  had been  paid off I wasnt sure why Capital One wouldnt  have  acted on 
that request  if it had been made. It was possible it had simply failed to act in error. But I 
thought if that was the case then either Mr C or his mother would have got back  in touch with 
Capital One to find out why the account  hadnt closed as requested. So I didnt think Capital 
One had done anything  wrong here. 
Following that Capital One had written to Mr C in October 2013 about a cashback  offer.  But 
it didnt appear that was what  had led to a new card being sent to him. Capital One told us 
that was because Mr C reported his card as lost and asked for a new one to be sent. I 
thought that was likely because it was referenced in a note from the time (on 9 November). 
And I didnt  think Capital One did anything wrong  in sending a new card in response to a 
request for a replacement card on an account  that was already open. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said he had asked Capital One to close  the account in 
2013 and it hadnt acted  on his request. He thought the account was closed until he received 
the information about the cashback  offer. And as he believed the account was closed he 
shouldnt have been sent that information.  He said he returned the promotional material and 
it was because of that he was sent a new card on which he then spent a significant  sum of 
money. He also raised concerns about  how Capital One had applied its vulnerability policy.   
Mr C also had separate concerns about the sale of his debt to another business  and what 
that business did following that (including  the amount  of money  it was pursuing him for). So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48012002I appreciate Mr C strongly believes he asked for his account to be closed in 2013.  However,  
that isnt what the notes  from the time say. In addition, as Ive already explained, Im not 
clear why Capital One wouldnt  have acted  on that request  if it had been  made.  And while Mr 
C says he thought the account had been  closed (which is why he didnt follow  this up) Ive 
seen statements he was sent after his mother contacted Capital One which I think  would 
have indicated the account  hadnt  in fact closed.  
Turning to the new card he was later sent its not in dispute Capital One sent him 
promotional material about a cashback offer. But while  Mr C thinks it was as a result of that 
he was sent the new card that isnt reflected in the notes from the time. They say the card 
was sent out because  he reported his previous card as lost. And theres nothing in the notes 
to suggest the new card was sent in response to the cashback offer. So I cant  say Capital 
One has done anything wrong  here either. 
Mr C has also expressed concern about the sale of his debt by Capital One to another  
business. Thats something weve considered as part of a separate  complaint and it doesnt  
form part of the issues Im looking at in this decision.  Ive asked the investigator  who looked 
at that complaint to contact Mr C about  this. 
I also understand hes concerned about Capital Ones vulnerability  policy.  It looks like these 
points were addressed  in a more recent final response from Capital One. If those concerns 
relate to the decision to offer him a credit  card then for the same reasons I explained in my 
jurisdiction decision this isnt something well be able to consider. But if it relates to more  
recent events then we might be able to look at this as part of a separate  complaint. So thats 
something Mr C may want to discuss with our investigator. 
Mr C has also raised concerns about  the actions of the business  his debt was sold on to. 
Again thats  something that would  need to be considered  as part of a complaint about that 
business. However, it does appear the courts have been involved with this matter  and so Im 
not clear this is something wed be able to help Mr C with. But if he wants us to consider that 
issue in more detail  he should raise it with our investigator.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4801200