K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains the vehicle he acquired on a conditional  sale agreement financed  by PSA 
Finance UK Limited was misrepresented and not of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost 
price of the vehicle to be reduced and the credit agreement adjusted.
background
Mr I says he acquired the vehicle in June 2016, from a dealer Ill refer to as A. He says he 
was told by a manager  at A that the vehicle came  with a full service  history. But he later 
found there was a year missing. He says this means hes paid too high a price for the vehicle 
- as the price would be affected by the previous service history.  He thinks  the finance 
agreement should  be considered void.
PSA told us at the time Mr I had acquired  the vehicle hed been working for A. It said it 
understood A didnt advise a vehicle  had a full service history  unless  it was still within  the 
manufacturers warranty period. In this case it said the warranty had expired in 2015. And it 
didnt think the lack of a full service history reduced  the re-sale  price of a vehicle outside the 
warranty period.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 January 2019.  PSA have not 
responded or provided any further  information. Mr I has replied and has supplied  emails 
which he feels supports  his complaint about  misrepresentation.  He also doesnt agree  
theres no evidence  to show that lack of a service  history has affected the value of the 
vehicle. He thinks its general knowledge that the value is affected. I thank Mr I for his 
response. But Im not minded to change my provisional view.  Ill explain why - and deal with 
the issues hes raised in more detail - in my final decision  which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr I is upset as he feels the vehicle was misrepresented regarding  the service 
history. And that he feels if hed known of the missing service he would not have been  
prepared to pay the advertised  price of the vehicle.
Under present  legislation as the provider  of both finance and the vehicle, PSA would be
responsible for any misrepresentation,  made by the credit broker, which  occurred at or 
before the point  of sale in relation to either the agreement or the description of the vehicle. 
Its also responsible  for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to act upon it. I 
dont apply the law directly but I do take it into account. So if I thought thered been a 
misrepresentation or the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect  PSA 
to do something about it.
We are an evidence based service and where  evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory - 
as some of it is here - Im required  to reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That 
is not to say one party  is right and the other wrong.  Its just what I think  is the most  probable  
explanation as to what took place.
Ref: DRN45464062Mr I says he was told the vehicle came with a full service history.  Unfortunately theres no 
additional supporting evidence of this - such as an advertisement or sales  brochure. 
Although I understand why Mr I might not have retained any advertising material.  Many of us 
would discard what  might reasonably be seen as unnecessary  paperwork.  And its only in 
hindsight that its relevance might  become  apparent.
Ive seen a detailed service history  which shows  the vehicle was first registered in 2012 and 
had annual services  up to 2015. Ive also been told by PSA that the vehicle was serviced in 
May 2016, 24 June  2016 and June 2017. The latter two services would have been after Mr I 
acquired the vehicle and dont really affect  the issue of the alleged misrepresentation. The 
documentation Ive received relating to May 2016  confirms only that work  was done on the 
front brake discs  and pads - but does not refer to a full service.
PSA has suggested the fact that Mr I worked as a salesman - and had effectively sold the 
vehicle to himself - meant  there  could  have been no misrepresentation.  I dont agree with 
this analysis.
Whilst Mr I completed  some of the administrative processes  in relation to the sale, the 
evidence suggests  the sale itself was overseen by a manager. And this is only to be 
expected. Its hardly likely a business would allow an employee to negotiate  the price  of a 
valuable vehicle costing  in excess of £20,000 with himself.
Nor does  the fact that he was a salesman with some knowledge of the industry have  any 
direct bearing on the issue.  If a false statement of fact was made to Mr I about the service 
history - it would still be a misrepresentation unless it could be shown Mr I knew  it was false.  
And if he knew it was false he would presumably have said so at the time and tried to 
negotiate a lower price  or chosen  not to proceed  with the deal.
Ive also been  told its not the normal practice  of this dealer to advertise that a vehicle out of 
warranty is supplied with a full service history. But whilst Im happy  to accept that - it wouldnt  
necessarily mean that an exception wasnt made  in an individual situation.
Whilst taking all the above into account Im still unable to find theres been a 
misrepresentation. I think its highly likely there was a pre-supply discussion between Mr I 
and the manager about the vehicle. And that probably included  mention of the service 
history amongst the many other aspects that normally  surround  such a deal. But in order for 
me to find thered  been a misrepresentation Id have to think there was probably a false  
statement of fact. Not simply a misunderstanding or mistaken assumption being made as to 
what was being  said. There is insufficient  persuasive evidence for me to reach that 
conclusion. 
And whilst Mr I has said the value of the vehicle has been affected by the lack of the service 
history Ive not seen  evidence to support this. Im aware Mr I feels this is general knowledge 
which can be proved  by reference  to trade  journals. But I dont think  this offers  any real 
support to his case. Im prepared  to accept that in certain circumstances a lack of service 
history might  affect the value of a vehicle. This is most likely to be relevant when a warranty  
is still in force and requires proof  of regular  servicing  to remain valid. But with older  vehicles - 
out of any manufacturers  warranty  - its much less significant. And service history is only 
one of many  factors  in determining the price of a vehicle.  And even if it was an issue which  
affected vehicles  in general - Id still require evidence this vehicle was impacted.
Ref: DRN45464063I also express some surprise that if the issue was as important to Mr I as he says - it took 
until October 2017 to raise it as a concern. Mr I has told me he discovered  the lack of service 
history in June 2017. And Ive seen the emails hes received  from A in July 2017  about the 
issue. So I accept he was concerned at an earlier date than Id originally thought.  But the 
point Im making is unaffected.
Mr I is alleging a misrepresentation. And Ive already referred  to the necessity for there to be 
not only a false  statement  - but one which causes the consumer to act upon  it. So if it was 
material to the purchasing  decision  Id expect the absence of the service documentation to 
be a matter which was not only raised at the time of supply but was regularly followed up. Mr 
I says the emails are evidence of incorrect information given post -sale. But they couldnt 
have affected  his decision to acquire the vehicle.
As far as the vehicle  not being  of satisfactory  quality - Ive seen no evidence which would 
lead me to this conclusion. Mr Is original  complaint  sought a price  reduction - as opposed to 
rejecting the vehicle - which would have been the more likely preferred option  had the 
vehicle not been of satisfactory quality. Ive not seen anything to suggest the vehicle is not 
working correctly.
Nor am I able to say the vehicle was not as described. This seems to turn on much  the same  
issue as the alleged misrepresentation which Ive dealt with. And Ive seen no evidence that 
in any other  respect  the vehicle was other than as described.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr I, Im not intending  to uphold this 
complaint as I dont  think there was a misrepresentation.  Or that the vehicle  was not of 
satisfactory quality. And I dont think its likely  hes suffered  a financial loss due to any of 
these factors.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4546406