K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
1998. Mrs C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Cs signed  credit  card application form and I believe Lloyds 
made it clear that Mrs C didnt have  to take out the PPI. I think she chose to take it out as 
Ive seen no evidence  to support what shes recently  said about being pressured  into 
buying it.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs C it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it doesnt appear she was affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the cover despite  her employers sick 
pay and the family help she says she could have relied on.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But I think it likely  she chose  to take it out  so it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs C about  that. Because Lloyds didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to 
Mrs C any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs C the difference between 
what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
Ref: DRN42325292hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs C 8%* simple 
interest if Mrs C paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4232529