K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Future 45 Ltd mis-sold  her a mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
background
Mrs R purchased a 12 month  mechanical breakdown insurance policy  online through     
Future 45. When she purchased the policy her car had covered around 116,000 miles.     
Mrs Rs car later developed a fault so she contacted the insurer to claim on her policy.  
The insurer  said it would need it would  need to diagnose the fault to know if the claim was 
covered. It also said due to the mileage of Mrs Rs car it would only cover 50% of the repair  
cost, as explained in the terms  and conditions. Mrs R wasnt  happy about  this and 
complained, she said the policy should cover the full cost of repair.  She said if shed known 
about this before she bought the policy she wouldnt have bought  it. 
Future 45 reviewed Mrs Rs complaint  and didnt uphold it. It said the website clearly 
explained the betterment contribution. It said that as Mrs Rs car had covered more than 
60,000 miles the policy would  only provide a contribution towards the repair  cost.  Mrs R 
didnt agree and brought her complaint here.  
Our investigator reviewed  Mrs Rs complaint and recommended  it was upheld. She found 
that the term wasnt highlighted clearly enough to Mrs R. She agreed that if it had been    
Mrs R most likely wouldnt have bought the policy. She asked Future 45 to refund the 
premium and add 8% simple interest  to compensate Mrs R for not having the money. 
Future 45 didnt  agree, it said the term was prominently displayed on its website so Mrs R 
should have been aware of it. 
As Future  45 didnt  agree  the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Future 45 sold Mrs R her policy online  in a non-advised sale.  This means  when it sold the 
policy it needed to provide  her with information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive reviewed the online sales process to see what information Mrs R would  have been  
provided with at the time. On the web page, when  buying the policy,  you need to scroll down 
and look at the bottom, there is then a list of main features the policy  includes.  
Item 12 on the list says No betterment  contribution  due to age of car, only mileage  when over 
60,000. It then has a link you can click to find out more information  about this. Im not satisfied 
this is clear enough to let Mrs R know the warranty would  only contribute 50% towards a repair 
cost. Considering her car had done  over 100,000 miles  it would be important to Mrs R to know  
how much  the policy would cover. And Im not satisfied item 12 on the list did enough to let 
Mrs Rs know  she would  only get a 50% contribution if she made a claim. 
Ref: DRN41817332Ive therefore  looked  at what Mrs R would have  done if shed known about this term. Mrs R 
said if shed know about this term she wouldnt  have bought the policy.  Mrs R also hasnt 
continued with her claim because of this term. She said shed rather the premium was 
refunded to her instead of claiming  on the policy for a similar amount. Im persuaded by    
Mrs Rs testimony  that she wouldnt have bought this policy. Because of this Future 45 
should put Mrs R back in the position  she would have been in if the information had been  
clear and refund her the premium of £867.03. It should also add 8% simple interest per year 
to this amount,  to compensate Mrs R for not having  the money. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Future 45 Ltd to pay Mrs R £867.03.  It should  add 8% simple interest per year to this 
amount, calculated from the date she paid it until the date it makes payment.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Future 45 Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN4181733