K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Northern Bank  Limited mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1997, Mr and Mrs G took out a home  improvement  loan with Northern. At that time,  they 
were sold a regular  premium, single cover  PPI policy to protect the repayments  on their loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs G 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding it for the 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs G have provided a copy of a printed application form for their loan. Theres  a 
section on the form headed Homemaster  Payment Protection Plan. And I can see that pre-
printed crosses have  been placed in the boxes provided to indicate  that neither  single  nor 
joint PPI cover was required. They think this shows that they didnt opt for PPI cover. 
Mr and Mrs G also say that they dont recall  PPI being discussed  with them at the time and 
they dont think  they were  given any documents about PPI to read. 
But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place over twenty years ago and memories of 
such meetings do tend to fade with time.  I can also see that the loan application  which 
Mr and Mrs G have provided is unsigned. So I think its quite possible that they changed 
their minds  about taking  PPI before signing  a final version of this form, or that they decided  
to apply for PPI after their loan application  had already been  completed.
Unfortunately, Northern doesnt still have  copies of any of the documents  that were produced 
when this loan and PPI were  taken out. However, I dont think this is that surprising  given 
this all happened so long ago; businesses arent required to keep such records  over these 
long time periods. But I know that Northerns normal sales  process would have been  to 
require each applicant  requiring PPI cover to fill in a separate  PPI application form. And as 
the monthly premiums  for PPI were  collected separately from the monthly mortgage 
repayments - by standing  order   a separate standing order  mandate would also have been  
needed to enable these payments to be made. 
I can see from the copies  Ive received of Mr and Mrs Gs bank  statements  that a monthly  
PPI premium of £9.36 was collected by standing  order from them. So although neither 
Northern nor Mr and Mrs G have  retained  a copy of a PPI application or the standing  order  
mandate, I think that its likely that these were completed at the time. I dont think  that in 
these circumstances  its likely that a PPI policy would have been set up by Northern without 
Mr and Mrs G being  aware of this and agreeing  to it by signing the necessary paperwork.
Ref: DRN49273822So having  carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think its most likely that 
Mr and Mrs G actively  decided to take out PPI cover on their loan, knowing that they had a 
choice. But I can well understand why they might not be able to recall this now.
Northern say that this would  have  been  an advised sale,  where  the PPI policy  was 
recommended to Mr and Mrs G based  on their circumstances at the time. And Ive taken this 
to be the case,  because  this means that Northern needed to ensure that it was suitable for 
them. Northern says that the premium  charged shows that this was a single cover policy,  but 
it cant now be sure whether it was Mr or Mrs G who was the insured party. However, given 
that it seems  that Mr G was by far the main income earner at the time, I think its reasonable 
to assume that the policy covered him.
I cant now know all the steps that Northern may have taken to ensure that the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G. But I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I 
say this because:
Mr G appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr G says he would have received a statutory redundancy payment if hed become 
unemployed and sick pay from his employer  if hed been  unable to work because of an 
accident or sickness. So he doesnt  think he needed the cover that the PPI gave him. But 
this policy would  have  paid out in addition to this. And a secured loan is an important 
financial commitment, where  ones  home  is potentially at risk if the monthly repayments 
cant be met. I can also see that Mr G was the main breadwinner  in the household  with a 
number of dependents. So I still think Mr and Mrs G would have valued the extra  security  
that the policy provided if things had gone  wrong.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs G. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  have been  cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
Northern also needed to give Mr and Mrs G enough information for them to decide  if they 
wanted to take out the PPI policy. I think its quite possible that the information they were 
given could have  been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think  
the policy was unsuitable, I dont think that better information  would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I think theyd still have thought  it gave them useful cover at an 
affordable price.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  which  Mr and Mrs G have made in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment  of their complaint. But these havent changed my mind about not 
upholding it. I still dont  think  that Mr and Mrs G have lost out by anything that Northern may 
have done wrong  when  it sold them this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN49273823my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Northern Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4927382