K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) didnt allow a transfer out of his 
bank by a third party hed authorised by letter.
As a resolution hed like compensation for the financial  embarrassment caused to him with 
other parties  involved and for the damage  of his character and honesty.
background
On 29 November 2018, Mr T was away on a business  trip. He asked a third party  to make a 
transfer from his bank account  to someone elses bank account.  He wrote a letter  
authorising the third party to do this. But Halifax said that they couldnt accept the letter as 
authorisation for the transfer.  
Mr T found out that the transfer  didnt happen  so he called Halifax asking them  to carry out a 
one off transfer over the phone. Halifax said that they were  unable to do this as the payee  
wasnt set up on the account. They also said that Mr T wasnt set up for telephone banking.  
Mr T says that, on a call, Halifax  hung  up on him. Halifax say that the line was cut off. 
When Mr T returned  from his business trip, he visited a Halifax branch. He was told that the 
transaction couldnt be completed for security reasons. Halifax suggested  writing  a cheque 
as an alternative.  As Mr T didnt have  a cheque book, this was arranged  for him. 
Halifax also confirmed that, due to a system error, Mr Ts signature was no longer stored on 
the banking internal systems. 
Mr T complained to Halifax. They found  that they had been right in not allowing the transfer  
to go through  on 29 November  2018.  But, they did acknowledge  that they had provided poor 
customer service  so offered him £100.  
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome so he brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that Halifax was justified in not 
allowing the transfer. She also thought  that the £100 compensation offered for poor 
customer service  was fair. 
Mr T didnt  accept this decision so the complaint  has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr T wont be happy with my decision. Im not upholding this complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Transaction to third party
I understand why Mr T is frustrated that Halifax didnt allow  the third party, that Mr T had 
authorised, to carry out a transaction on his behalf.  But, I also think that Halifax acted 
Ref: DRN40688462responsibly in not accepting  this authorisation. They are under a duty to protect  their 
customers money. So, I see why they didnt want to accept an authorisation that wasnt in 
the proper form. 
I dont agree with Mr T that the letter  that he wrote and a cheque were effectively the same 
thing. Had he written  a cheque, then Halifax wouldve had more reason to believe that the 
payment request was being made by the account holder. The same  doesnt hold with a letter  
which couldve been written by anyone. Although  it was written by Mr T, in this case, Halifax 
didnt know this at the time that it was presented.  
Mr T says that Halifax didnt accept that he had made a payment to the person that he 
wanted to transfer  the money to before. He provided a bank statement and payment receipt 
showing payment  to this person. But, what I can see is that, although  a payment was made, 
there is nothing showing  that this person  was set up as a payee  on Mr Ts account. This is 
what Halifax wanted to see and he wasnt there  as a payee. 
Regardless of this, I still think that, as Mr T wasnt set up for telephone banking, Halifax 
could still have refused  to carry out the transaction even if the person was set up as a payee. 
I think that Halifax were right to refuse to carry out the transfer. 
Customer service
I think that Halifax couldve added  the third party mandate  when Mr T visited  the branch. But 
this did happen  quite soon after so I dont  think  that Mr T suffered too much inconvenience. 
I have considered Mr T saying that Halifax hung  up on him. I cant say that this happened.  
Halifax couldve offered  him a cheque book sooner and also told him about the third party 
mandate. 
In considering all of the above, I think that the £100  offered in compensation of the poor 
customer service  is fair. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the decision that Mr T was hoping for. I hope that Ive clearly 
explained why Ive reached this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) to do 
anything else other than to pay the £100  compensation  for poor customer  service if this 
hasnt already been done. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Rita Parmar
Ref: DRN40688463ombudsman
Ref: DRN4068846