K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service he received from Santander UK Plc when  he called to 
arrange a balance transfer.
background
In March 2019, Mr J called Santander  with a query and to request a balance  transfer. The 
call handler answered the query and then started  the process of a balance transfer. During 
the call, the call handler answered further queries  about a promotional offer linked to the 
balance transfer  and whether it would be eligible for cashback.
Throughout the call, Santanders  call handler said the line was quite poor and, as a 
consequence, she had to ask Mr J to repeat his answers sometimes.  Mr J found this 
frustrating.
Santander wasnt able to complete the balance transfer. The call handler explained this to 
Mr J and suggested that he check all his details were up-to-date  and correct  before 
attempting the transfer again. Mr J was adamant the details were  correct and asked to raise 
a complaint. He was unhappy with the length  of the phone call and that the balance  transfer 
hadnt been completed. 
Santander offered  £20 to say sorry for the length  of the call. And it told us that Mr J managed 
to successfully complete  a balance transfer a few weeks later, on 28 March 2019. 
Our investigator thought that £20 was fair in the circumstances  of this case, and didnt  think  
Santander should take any further action. Mr J has said that he wasnt  given £20 for what  
happened here and thinks this compensation related to another complaint. But Santander 
has explained that the £20 cheque it issued was to compensate Mr J for this matter.  Mr J 
asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So it has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it may come  as a disappointment to Mr J, I wont be upholding his complaint  
Ill explain  why. 
I should point  out that its for a business  to decide what  internal processes and procedures it 
has in place. This generally isnt something with which our service would interfere, as such  
matters are within the scope of legitimate  commercial judgments. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation between Mr J and Santander. I appreciate that it 
can be frustrating when  a call takes longer than anticipated. But Santander clearly explained 
that the call might take a while, and I dont think it caused the call to become unnecessarily  
long. I also dont think Santander can fairly  be held responsible for the issues  with the call 
quality which  contributed to the length  of the call. 
Ref: DRN46083192Santander declined  the balance transfer request in this call. This was as a result of failed 
validation checks.  Santander has shown us that its procedures require a consumer to pass  
validation checks before it will allow a balance transfer to go ahead.  And this links to its duty 
to protect  itself and its customers from fraud. So it would be unfair of me say that Santander 
did something wrong by declining  a balance transfer when Mr J didnt pass  its validation 
checks. But Im pleased to see that the balance transfer went  through  a few weeks  later.
So Im not persuaded that Santander  did anything wrong here. In fact, I think  its worth 
pointing out that Mr Js language was, at times, inappropriate  during the call. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, Santander  offered £20 to compensate Mr J for the time he was on the 
phone for. Mr J said the £20 he received was for another matter but he hasnt  produced any 
persuasive evidence  that supports this. So it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Santander to do anything further here - I think the £20 gesture  of goodwill is sufficient.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4608319