K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the way National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) treated  
them when they wanted to take out a new fixed interest rate on their mortgage. They say 
NatWest treated them very unfairly and forced them to go through an unnecessary  and 
stressful mortgage application.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. I 
explained why I thought  NatWest hadnt  taken a proportionate or fair and reasonable 
approach to Mr and Mrs Ts request and how I proposed that the complaint  should be 
settled.
I invited Mr and Mrs T and NatWest to let me have any more  evidence or arguments  they 
wanted to submit before I made my final decision.
Mr and Mrs T said they were pleased that I intended  to uphold their complaint. They  pointed  
out the effort they had had to put in to present their arguments and the unfair  advantage  they 
feel banks have in this sort of situation. 
Mr and Mrs T also said there were a number of better deals available  from other  providers at 
the time they expected  to be able to choose  a new rate for their mortgage in October 2017, 
and that NatWest had a better deal available then as well. They  believe they could have got 
a cheaper rate had they gone elsewhere,  and have been disadvantaged by staying with 
NatWest.
NatWest said it agreed with my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I certainly take Mr and Mrs Ts point about  NatWest being in a stronger position to make  its 
case than they were. A bank will have  far more knowledge of relevant rules and regulations 
than most  consumers. One of the reasons this service  exists is to level that playing field, and 
we dont expect  consumers to be experts  or to present their case  in a particular way. I 
recognise that Mr and Mrs T have put a lot of time and effort  into their complaint; I took 
account of the overall impact this whole  matter has had on them in proposing  NatWest  pay 
them compensation. I remain of the view that £300  is fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs T have  said they expected to be able to choose a new mortgage deal in October  
2017, and thats when  NatWest told them they couldnt do so without going through  a full 
application process. I proposed in my provisional  decision that, if Mr and Mrs T wish,  
NatWest should  backdate  their mortgage arrangement  to any better two-year  fixed-rate  deal 
it had available  a little later than that, on 21 November 2017. 
The first record I have  seen NatWest has of Mr and Mrs T enquiring  about  a new rate is on 
21 November 2017. That record  says Mr T phoned  because he couldnt  do a rate switch 
online. It is of course possible  that NatWests records are incomplete;  nevertheless, 
Ref: DRN49474792weighing everything  up, Im satisfied that 21 November is when the application process  
started. If Mr and Mrs T had tried to switch earlier and been unable  to do so, I think it was for 
them to discuss this with NatWest. In all the circumstances, I still consider 21 November 
2017 is a fair date to use when looking at alternative rates that were  available.
Mr and Mrs T may well have got a better deal with another  lender, but I think its clear they 
didnt want to change  mortgage providers at the time. So I think  its reasonable to take 
account only of the rates  NatWest was offering in re-working their mortgage, if they decide to 
take a different rate once it has given them information about what  was available.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  this complaint.  National Westminster Bank Plc should:
-pay Mr and Mrs T £300  compensation; and 
-provide Mr and Mrs T with details of the two-year fixed-rate mortgage deals which  would 
have been available to them when they asked about  a new rate on 21 November 2017. If 
Mr and Mrs T choose to switch to a different deal which they could have had then,  
NatWest should  backdate  it to 2 January 2018  and refund any extra  interest Mr and Mrs 
T have been charged because they are on a rate of 1.8%.  Any adjustments  should also 
take account of any difference  in product  fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49474793copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the way National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) treated  
them when they wanted to take out a new fixed interest rate on their mortgage. They say 
NatWest treated them very unfairly and forced them to go through an unnecessary  and 
stressful mortgage application.
background
Mr and Mrs T had had an interest-only mortgage with NatWest  for a number of years. In 
2013 and 2015, they had taken two-year fixed interest rate deals. They had chosen those 
arrangements themselves.
The 2015  fixed  rate was due to finish at the end of 2017. Mr and Mrs T tried to choose  a new 
rate as they had done before, but NatWest told them they couldnt. It said this was because  
a new fixed rate would  take the mortgage  past the end of its agreed  term, and Mr T would be 
over its age limit of 70. It required Mr and Mrs T to go through an application process  and 
receive advice about the best mortgage  deal for them.
Mr and Mrs T felt they had no choice but to go ahead on this basis. The process took several  
weeks, and they had to provide various information  and documents. The mortgage  term was 
extended slightly, and Mr and Mrs T accepted  NatWests recommendation of a two-year  
fixed rate at 1.8%.
Mr and Mrs T complained about the process  theyd been put through. NatWest said it had to 
follow rules set by the regulator, and it had to look at all Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances and 
give them  advice because they were changing their mortgage term. It accepted  it had made 
some mistakes and its service could have  been better; it said it was sorry for that and paid 
Mr and Mrs T £100 for any inconvenience.
Our investigators thought NatWest was entitled to require Mr and Mrs T to go through a full 
mortgage application, and that the £100  compensation  NatWest had paid was fair.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They felt the main thrust of their complaint had been ignored and 
NatWest hadnt  taken account of the fact they were existing mortgage customers  or applied  
the relevant regulatory rules correctly. The mortgage  had already  been set up to end after Mr 
T is 70 years  old, so his age shouldnt  have been  an issue. They were also concerned  about  
whether NatWest had recommended the best deal for them.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
When Mr and Mrs T contacted NatWest in late 2017, they didnt want to borrow any more  
money, and they didnt  want  to extend  the mortgage  term. All they wanted  to do was take a 
new two-year fixed rate, because their existing  fixed rate was ending.  They  also wanted to 
keep their mortgage with NatWest as longstanding customers.
Ref: DRN49474794The shortest fixed rates NatWest offered at the time ended at the end of February  2020.  
That is after Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  term was due to end, so I can see why the mortgage  
term had to be extended slightly. However, the necessary extension was of just a few 
months and, in the circumstances,  I think it was disproportionate and unnecessary  of 
NatWest to have required  Mr and Mrs T to go through a full mortgage application. 
In reaching that conclusion, I have taken account of relevant rules  and regulations. As both 
NatWest and Mr and Mrs T have pointed out, those include the Mortgage Conduct of 
Business (MCOB) rules, which changed  in 2014 following the mortgage market review.
The purpose of the changes  to the rules  was not to force existing mortgage customers 
through an unnecessary process.  And they provide  for lenders not to have to carry out an 
affordability assessment  in certain  circumstances. Those include where a customer  isnt 
borrowing any more money  and there are no changes to the mortgage terms which  are likely 
to be material to whether  the customer can afford  the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T werent borrowing  more money. And I dont consider that a term extension of 
around three  months  was material to affordability here. Mr T was already retired  and, while 
the extended term did take him further  into retirement, this was only for a few months. 
Besides that, the new rate saved Mr and Mrs T around £300 a month, compared to what 
their mortgage payments  would have been  on NatWests  standard  variable rate. So I 
consider that a rate switch was clearly in Mr and Mrs Ts best interests  and in the light of 
MCOB 11.7, an assessment of affordability wasnt necessary in these circumstances. I dont 
think Mr Ts age was really relevant, given that the mortgage was already due to run until he 
is over 70 years old.
That is not to say NatWest wasnt entitled to do a full assessment of Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances. But, for the reasons Ive explained,  I find that wasnt  a fair and reasonable 
approach here.
Mr and Mrs T have  said they found  the whole process lengthy, upsetting and stressful.  I 
think they should fairly receive some compensation  to reflect that. I dont think, though, that 
this means a fair outcome  is for them to receive  a refund of the £995 fee they paid for the 
mortgage deal they got. Having considered the overall impact on them and the time the 
mortgage application took, I assess a fair award  at £300  in addition to the £100  NatWest 
has already paid them for other shortcomings.
Mr and Mrs T have  also questioned whether NatWest recommended  the most suitable  
mortgage deal for them.  They have, in the past, been able to select their own mortgage 
arrangements, and they were frustrated to have  to rely on NatWests advice on this 
occasion.
This issue was raised at a late stage, so NatWest  hasnt  yet had the opportunity  to look into 
it. I consider  that it should now do so, bearing  in mind the length of time the process  of 
getting advice  took for Mr and Mrs T and any effect that may have had on the availability of 
two-year fixed rates. If a lower rate would  have been available  to Mr and Mrs T when they 
contacted NatWest about a rate switch on 21 November 2017,  I consider they should fairly 
have the option of now switching to that better deal and NatWest  should backdate it to 
January 2018,  so they do not lose out.
Ref: DRN49474795my provisional decision
My provisional decision  subject to any more evidence or arguments I receive from Mr and 
Mrs T or NatWest by 8 February 2019   is to uphold this complaint. I propose to require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:
-pay Mr and Mrs T £300  compensation; and 
-provide Mr and Mrs T with details of the two-year fixed-rate mortgage deals which  would 
have been available to them when they asked about  a new rate on 21 November 2017. If 
Mr and Mrs T choose to switch to a different deal which they could have had then,  
NatWest should  backdate  it to 2 January 2018  and refund any extra  interest Mr and Mrs 
T have been charged because they are on a rate of 1.8%.  Any adjustments  should also 
take account of any difference  in product  fees.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4947479