K822xComplaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  refused to let him 
cancel his lease  on a faulty car.
Background 
In November 2016 Mr M acquired a new car which was funded by a hire agreement with 
VFS. He paid an advance  rental of £2,180 and monthly payments of £ £273.65 were  payable 
over three years. In March he noticed rust spots on the bodywork and took it back  to the 
dealer. After discussions with the dealer the car was repaired in June 2018.  
Mr M made a complaint to VFS in May 2018 and it offered him £540 for the trouble and 
upset he had suffered.  Mr M then brought his complaint to this service  where  it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.  He noted VFS 
wasnt aware of the issue until May 2018 and he thought it had tried to resolve the problem 
fairly. However, he suggested it offer an additional £420 and agree that no charge be made 
for any rust related damage when the car was handed back.
Mr M didnt  agree and sent in recent photos  which showed the rust had reappeared. VFS 
suggested it pay him £1,500 and he be allowed to return the car early. Mr M didnt agree and 
so the matter has been referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the lease agreement, in this case  is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. VFS is 
also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a complaint 
about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goqods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr M had every reason  to expect his new leased car to be in good order  and it is clear  it 
wasnt. During the delivery  process  the car had been affected  by iron filings which  later 
Ref: DRN44817842caused rust spots to appear. I dont consider that to be satisfactory  and VFS agrees. That 
means the only remaining issue to be resolved is the level of compensation which should be 
paid to Mr M to reflect the distress and inconvenience he suffered, and his loss of 
enjoyment.
As far as VFS is concerned it was first made  aware of the problem in May 2018 and I agree 
with our investigator that it sought to help Mr M in having the paintwork repaired. I note Mr M 
says the dealer wasnt as helpful,  but I cant hold VFS responsible  for that.
For the use of the car over three years Mr M agreed  to pay £12,031. For some of the time he 
owned it rust spots were showing. The early  problem  was repaired, but the spots  reappeared  
towards the end of the contract. I am not aware that the rust caused Mr M any problems in 
driving the car and their impact was cosmetic. However, he was denied use of it while the 
car was being repaired.
Although Mr M has suggested  he should be given back all the payments he made. I dont 
consider that to be reasonable.  He had use of the car and it is only fair that he should pay for 
that use. The offer put forward by the business amounts to some 12.5% of Mr Ms payments 
and given the nature of the fault I consider this to be fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mr M compensation of £1,500.  Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
2 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4481784