K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2010 alongside  a personal loan.  Mrs D says Police Credit  Union Limited  (PCU) mis-
sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs D has said PPI was not explained. PCU has said the optional nature of the policy would 
have been clear. Where theres a dispute about  what happened, I have to base my decision 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking  into account all the evidence  that is 
available.
Both parties  agree Mrs D would have phoned  PCU  initially before being  sent documents  to 
complete, sign and return. PCU  no longer have a recording of the call, which  isnt surprising 
considering how long its been  since the sale took place. 
But based  on the evidence I do have, I think PCU made it clear  that Mrs D didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this. I say this because PCU have provided a copy  of the credit  application  
completed at the time. I can see there is an option to select or decline PPI and PPI has been 
selected. Mrs D has signed  the form which I think indicates that she wanted the cover.
PCU has also provided the separate PPI application form completed at the time. I can see 
there are three options: 
to take accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover (ASU);
to take accident  and sickness only (AS); or
to not take insurance. 
ASU cover has been selected  and Mrs D has signed the form  so I think this indicates  that 
she chose to take the policy with the specific cover, knowing that she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it.
PCU didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information PCU gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN45573072Mrs D has said she didnt need  PPI as she would have received six months full followed by 
six months half sick pay from her employer. But the PPI provided cover for 24 months per 
claim for accident and sickness as well as 12 months per claim for unemployment. So the 
PPI would have  covered  Mrs D for longer than her sick pay. Mrs D has said she wasnt  told 
that the PPI would not pay out alongside  her sick pay  but this isnt correct.  PPI would pay 
out in addition to her sick pay. 
Mrs D has said she had a life and critical illness cover  policy  with her husband so she didnt 
need the PPI policy.  But this is separate  product  to PPI and would not have  covered  the 
same thing that a PPI policy  would have. 
So overall, I still think Mrs D wouldve found  the PPI useful should she have lost her job or 
become unwell. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said but these points dont change my decision. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs D paid on her policy  and whether PCU treated  
her unfairly. PCU has told us that the commission for Mrs Ds policy was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how PCU has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ds commission was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell her about the commission  
 so I dont think  PCU treated her unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mrs D back  any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4557307