K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed in transferring his Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP) to another provider which caused him losses as he was unable to make  
the investments  he wanted.
background
Mr S put in a request  to transfer his SIPP from Barclays in November 2017. But this wasnt  
fully completed until the end of April 2018.  
Mr S contacted Barclays a number  of times  to try and find out what was happening and 
complaint about  the delays. He felt that Barclays had deliberately  delayed  the transfer  to 
improve its cash position. 
Barclays acknowledged that the transfer had been completed outside  of its agreed service  
timescales, and apologised for this. It offered Mr S £250 in recognition  of the inconvenience  
hed been caused. 
But Mr S calculated his losses  as £750,  based  on his cash balance and the average growth 
on his SIPP.
Barclays said the transfer was in-specie meaning his investments stay invested and were 
not sold and bought back. It said any growth in his SIPP would  be through these investments 
not through his cash balance, which had stayed around the same amount since mid 2017. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and she thought the offer of £250 for the 
trouble Mr S was caused was reasonable. But she also thought Mr S should be 
compensated for the delay in transferring his cash funds. She said that he did then invest 
these funds after the transfer was complete. The adjudicator  thought Barclays should apply 
interest to Mr Ss cash  fund from the date of the last transferred  investment element  to the 
date the cash  was transferred. She said this should  be at an annual rate of 8% simple.
Barclays agreed and calculated this amount to be £115.88 after tax had been deducted.
But Mr S didnt accept  the adjudicators findings.  He said that he was denied  access  to his 
cash fund through  the time of the transfer  and lost out on the return on investing it through  
the delay. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has told us that transfers like this can typically take between six to eight weeks for 
equities; and twelve to fourteen weeks for complex transfers. The cash holding is the last 
part to be transferred. From the records, I can see that it received Mr Ss transfer instruction 
on 1 December 2017, and the transfer  of his stocks, funds and bonds  held within his SIPP 
completed on 4 April 2018. His cash holding was then sent on 26 April 2018. 
Ref: DRN42097492Barclays has acknowledged  that this was outside of its agreed  service timescales and has 
apologised to Mr S for that. Its offer of £250 reflects this, and I think thats reasonable 
compensation to acknowledge  the delay and his efforts to chase up what  was happening.
However, Ive also considered whether  Mr S has been financially disadvantaged through  the 
delay for his intentions  for his SIPP.
As the transfer  was completed  in-specie, his investment holdings remained invested. 
Although I accept there is the possibility Mr S may have made  changes  to these investments 
had the transfers  been  completed sooner, I dont think, on the basis of the available  
evidence, I can conclude  that this would have  happened. So I dont think he could be said to 
have suffered a specific financial loss on these  because of the time the transfer took.
The cash  holding was always  going  to be the last to be transferred. However,  this wasnt  
sent until some weeks after the last of his investment holdings, and it isnt clear  to me what 
caused this delay. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest that this was intentional  to benefit 
Barclays.
Barclays has told us that Mr S still had access to his cash  until the transfer of it begun  to be 
processed, and he could  place trades  by contacting  it by phone.  However, Mr S has said he 
wasnt made aware of this. And I can see that he did make purchases  from his cash  holding 
after the transfer on 9 May and 15 May. However,  I can also see from the historic statements 
of Mr Ss holdings that the amount he had in his cash holding had stayed at roughly the 
same level since August 2017.
It isnt possible to know precisely what Mr S wouldve  done  if his cash holding had been 
transferred earlier, or had he known he could still place trades over the phone. So I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to suggest  that a comparison  with the average growth on his 
investments should  be applied  to his cash balance for the period of additional time the 
transfer took. And my understanding is that there  was no point during which  the cash 
amount wasnt in an interest bearing  environment, other than perhaps  for a few days after 
the transfer occurred on 26 April 2018. Its possible that the interest earned in the 
replacement SIPP would  have  been higher, but, taking everything into account,  I think 
Barclayss offer to pay 8% simple  interest  between  4 April and 26 April 2018, along with the 
£250 Barclays has already offered, represents  a fair settlement  for this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to:
-pay Mr S interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to Mr Ss cash holding between 4 
April 2018 and 26 April 2018; and
-pay Mr S £250 for the inconvenience this matter has caused him.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN42097493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4209749