K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax will not remove the other 
account holder  from her joint account  unless both of them visit a branch  with identification.
background
Mrs P holds accounts jointly with her husband and they are now separated. She has taken 
over the mortgage  with Halifax into her name  and now wants  to take over the other 
accounts. She cannot understand why Halifax wont accept written  instructions as it verified 
both of their identities  when they visited a branch about the mortgage.  And the other account 
holder visited on his own about  this but was turned away.
Our investigator clarified that the instruction about the other  accounts  was not given at the 
same time the mortgage was dealt with. So Halifax required Mrs P and the other  account  
holder to visit a branch together to change the account. It had not made  a mistake.
Mrs P did not agree  and wanted  her complaint reviewed. The investigator  had changed her 
mind and Mrs P said she was going  to miss out on a switching bonus  as she intended  to 
switch one of the accounts to another business.  She did not think Halifaxs requirements 
were reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has provided a copy of its policy about  joint accounts and I can see is following this 
here. We dont have a role in saying what the processes should be as we are not the 
regulator. My understanding is that Mrs P remains in contact with the other account holder. 
And although there would  be an element of inconvenience in them both having to go to a 
branch I dont see any evidence the other  account holders refused to do so. Nor do I see 
that there  are exceptional circumstances that would make this an inappropriate request by 
Halifax. 
Our investigator initially thought the signed  instruction had been provided to a mortgage 
advisor in branch. But in line with our approach either party  to a complaint can submit  more 
evidence. And Halifax  says that instruction  about the account was sent by post.  It couldnt  
have been verified  or actioned at the time the mortgage was dealt with.
So Im afraid  that I dont  find that Halifax has made a mistake or acted  unfairly.
Ref: DRN49876802my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4987680