K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds handling of Mr Ds private 
medical insurance claim. 
background
In May 2018, Mr D called  AXA to request  authorisation for treatment of a medical condition. 
AXA provided the authorisation, and then sent Mr D details  of several specialists.  AXA 
advised Mr D that if the specialist  he wanted to use wasnt fully recognised  by them,  then 
only 60% of the costs  would be payable. 
Mr D had further conversations with AXA about specialists. He was told in June  2018  that his 
preferred specialist wasnt fully recognised by AXA. Therefore,  AXA would cover 60% of the 
cost, but Mr D would  need  to cover the shortfall. He didnt go ahead with the treatment at 
that time.  
In November 2018, Mr D received  his renewal premium from AXA.  He called AXA in early 
December and explained he wanted  to cancel his cover because  his preferred specialist 
wasnt fully recognised by AXA. At this point, AXA realised that Mr Ds medical  condition  
wasnt covered under  the policy terms, and that it shouldnt have given him authorisation in 
the first place. It apologised for this and offered him £200 compensation for its error.  
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this service. He renewed his cover.   
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the £200 
compensation was fair compensation for AXAs error. However, she noted the specialist 
Mr D wanted to use for his treatment  had had his recognised status withdrawn by AXA in 
September 2018. She thought Mr D would have cancelled his policy in September 2018 if 
hed known this. She therefore recommended AXA refund  Mr Ds premiums paid since this 
date, plus interest. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 January 2020. My provisional findings were:
Ive checked the policy terms,  and I think its clear that Mr Ds claim isnt covered. Although 
AXA unfortunately led Mr D to believe his treatment would be covered, he didnt actually go 
ahead with the treatment, and so he hasnt incurred a financial loss as a result  of AXAs 
wrong advice. 
That being  said,  Mr D has experienced a loss of expectation. As the investigator pointed  out, 
AXA had plenty of opportunity to recognise that it had made an error in authorising the 
treatment and correct  this. Unfortunately, it was several months before this happened. I think 
compensation is therefore appropriate in the circumstances, but Im satisfied  that the £200 
already offered by AXA is reasonable. 
The next point  for me to consider is whether AXA should also refund any of Mr Ds 
premiums. 
I see that Mr and Mrs D decided  to stop paying premiums a few months after the policy 
renewed in December 2018, and the policy lapsed in April 2019.
Ref: DRN42872222Our investigator thought that Mr D would have  cancelled  the policy in September  2018 if 
hed known that his preferred specialist was no longer recognised  by AXA,  and that none of 
his treatment costs would have been  covered  with that specialist. 
I dont know what Mr D would have done  if hed been told in September 2018 that his 
preferred specialist was no longer recognised at all. But given that he hadnt actually made 
an appointment with that specialist, I cant reasonably conclude that he would have 
cancelled the policy. Based on the assumption at that time that his claim was covered, he 
could have the treatment carried out by another specialist who was fully recognised  by AXA.  
However, as we now know, the claim isnt covered under the policy terms. Mr D says that if 
hed been told this when he first made  the claim in May 2018, he would have cancelled the 
policy and looked  into taking out alternative cover through his employer. He says he only 
stayed with AXA because  he knew another insurer wouldnt accept a pre-existing condition. 
I cant be sure whether or not Mr D would have cancelled the policy  in May 2018 if hed 
known his claim wasnt covered. But given that AXA told Mr D in December 2018 that his 
claim wasnt covered and he didnt cancel his policy at this time,  on balance, I think  its 
reasonable to assume that he would  have continued with his cover had he known this in May 
2018.
I therefore dont  intend to require AXA to refund any of Mr Ds premiums.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make.
Mr D responded to say he was disappointed with my provisional decision. 
AXA didnt have  any further comments.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, as neither party has provided 
me with any new comments to consider, I see no reason to change the outcome I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4287222