K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr Ws representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf about the redress offered by Barclays Bank  Plc for the unsuitable  investment advice it 
provided. 
background 
Barclays concedes that the original advice  was unsuitable. It said Mrs and Mr W were 
advised to take too much  risk and invest too much  of their money. Barclays  offered redress 
based on Mrs and Mr W supposedly  taking  only a small risk with a lower amount of their 
money. 
The CMC disagreed with Barclayss proposed redress. It said Mrs and Mr W were  likely to 
invest the whole amount  in a deposit based  account and shouldnt have been advised to 
take any risk at all. And that this wouldve been the best option  given Mr Ws poor health.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the CMC  says,  I think  the 
proposal by the Barclays is broadly fair and reasonable. 
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs and Mr Ws frustration 
and strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided  detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However,  I hope  Mrs and 
Mr W wont take the fact my findings  focus  on what I consider  to be the central issues,  and 
not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the CMC  and Barclays, and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. In deciding  whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account  the relevant law, regulation  and best industry practice,  
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,  based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
For the record I think it was right to uphold  the complaint. I dont think  it was reasonable to 
advise Mrs and Mr W to invest £6,000 each into Personal Equity Plans  (PEPs), which they 
reduced to £5,000 each. 
So the key question for me to consider is the issue of redress and the benchmark upon 
which it should be calculated. 
In this instance I think its more likely than not Mrs and Mr W were  willing  to take some  risk, 
albeit small,  with a smaller portion of their money  and I think they were in a reasonable 
position to do so. 
Ref: DRN40954952I note they were in their mid-forties and early  fifties, respectively, and Mr W was retired and 
not in the best of health but that Mrs W was working. They owned their own home  mortgage  
free and had a net disposable income of £250.  In total they had £15,000 in cash, having 
inherited £10,000 from a relative. 
Im not persuaded that they were risk averse or that under no circumstances were  they 
willing to take any risk at all. I appreciate  they were inexperienced first time investors but that 
doesnt mean they werent willing to take some risk, especially with a smaller amount of their 
money - £3,000  each  leaving reasonable funds for emergencies.  
I note Mrs and Mrs W reduced the investment from £6,000 each to £5,000  each which 
suggests that they were engaged in the process and had sufficient opportunity  to decide 
whether or not they wanted to invest. So I dont agree that they didnt have enough time to 
decide whether  or not they wanted  to invest.  
So, on balance I think the redress offered  by Barclays is broadly fair and reasonable. Im 
unable to say that it was wrong. I agree with the investigator that Mrs and Mr W were willing 
to invest for the medium term,  a smaller  portion of their money,  with a smaller risk with a 
view to achieving capital  gain. Im mindful the CMC makes clear that they were aware their 
investment could go up or down and they could get back less than they invested, which 
again supports  the view that they were broadly aware of, and willing to take, some risk.  
I appreciate Mrs and Mr W will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think the redress  offered by 
Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4095495