K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  their mortgage application made to Harpenden 
Building Society (HBS). They say that, after Key Facts Illustration (KFI) was issued, HBS 
changed the terms of the offer, resulting in serious  disadvantage to Mr and Mrs F.
To settle  the complaint, Mr and Mrs F want HBS to do the following:
1.revert the interest rate to the original discounted rate set out in the KFI;
2.keep 3 years worth  of interest on deposit at the discounted rate set out in the KFI;
3.return any funds over and above  the amount in point 2 above;
4.reimburse additional interest Mr and Mrs F had to pay to their bridging loan provider.
Mr F has conducted  the complaint throughout.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  I 
confirm Ive read everything  (including all of Mr Fs emails and everything else hes sent us), 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Consequently, I will summarise the events leading up to the complaint quite briefly. There  
are several reasons  for this: whats happened  isnt in dispute  and all parties  are aware  of the 
timeline of events; the investigator set out the background in detail when reviewing the 
complaint, so there is no need for me to repeat all the details here; and, importantly, our 
decisions are published and so I have to take care to ensure that Mr and Mrs F cant be 
identified from any of the details in the decision.  
Furthermore, for reasons that will become clear below, the main issue in this complaint does 
not turn on the minutiae  of the mortgage application. So although Ive taken note of 
everything Mr F has said, (including his detailed  analysis  of HBSs actions throughout the 
application and his arguments  about  the implications  of these),  I will not be looking at each 
and every point hes made.
The events can be summarised as follows. Briefly, in August 2018 through  a mortgage 
broker, Mr and Mrs F applied for a mortgage  with HBS in order  to repay  a bridging loan. A 
KFI was issued, offering  a mortgage over a term of five years  at a discounted rate of 2.35% 
for the first 3 years,  reverting thereafter to HBSs standard variable rate (SVR). This was not 
a formal mortgage offer, nor did it create a binding obligation on HBS to offer a mortgage on 
those terms.
Ref: DRN42669302When the full application  was received, HBS became aware of factors which  it considered 
material to its decision to lend. The application  was initially  declined  in September  2018. 
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage  broker contacted HBS to explain that factors  
which had affected  the initial decline had changed.  HBS reviewed the application.  Due to the 
nature of the borrowing, the application was considered bespoke and was referred to HBSs  
Credit Committee.  After  considering the application,  HBS was still willing to issue a mortgage 
offer, but on terms which were substantially different from those set out in the KFI, 
The new loan offer issued in January 2019 was for a mortgage on an interest-only  basis  over 
a term of three years at HBSs SVR of 4.19%.  HBS also required Mr and Mrs F to deposit 
£75,000 with HBS to cover  the interest  on the mortgage. The lump sum factored in an 
additional interest rate weighting  known  as a stress test.
Mr F complained. The crux of the complaint is that he says HBS, knowing Mr Fs 
circumstances, unfairly  loaded the application  with additional onerous terms, effectively 
taking advantage of his need to repay his bridging  loan and raise additional funds. Mr F says 
HBS has breached various regulations  in its failure to treat him and Mrs F fairly when 
considering their mortgage application. 
HBS didnt uphold  the complaint, so Mr and Mrs F brought it to us where an investigator 
looked at it. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  
Dissatisfied with the investigators  findings,  Mr F responded in detail and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill begin by explaining what the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is and my remit as an ombudsman.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked 
and answered. 
I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator. Ive noted all the 
points Mr F has made in relation to his contention  that HBS breached  its regulatory duties to 
him. But this is outside the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Im aware Mr F thinks our case  handler  has shown bias towards HBS.  Were required to 
assess all of the evidence  from all the parties. Insofar  as she didnt agree with Mr Fs view of 
the complaint,  that wasnt of itself indicative of bias, however unwelcome F found her 
conclusions.
I appreciate Mr F believes HBS has treated him and Mrs F unfairly.  His very detailed  
submissions highlight all the issues hes unhappy about. But this complaint is simpler than 
its been presented:  the issue is about  the exercise by HBS of its commercial judgment when 
deciding the terms  on which  to offer a mortgage  to Mr and Mrs F. 
Ref: DRN42669303Where a complaint  is about the exercise  by a lender  of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether  that judgement has been  exercised fairly and reasonably;  it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of HBS. In other words, I have to decide if HBS took into account 
all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them  before reaching  its decision. It is 
only if I thought  no lender  could reasonably have made the decisions HBS made in this case 
that there  would be any basis for intervention on my part.
HBS is entitled  to set its own lending criteria.  Decisions  that HBS makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should  lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters  for HBSs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere  with. Additionally in deciding  whether  to 
lend to Mr and Mrs F, HBS is entitled to take account of its own interests when making  such  
decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
As I said above, I am not setting out each and every event  that took place during the 
application process. In the light of what Ive said above, I dont need to. 
Having looked  at the way in which HBS considered the application, Im satisfied that it took 
into account all relevant factors before deciding the terms on which it was prepared  to lend 
to Mr and Mrs F. The application was first assessed by underwriters and then by HBSs  
Credit Committee.  
HBS has provided documentation  about  its underwriting of the application and about its 
consideration of the application by the Credit Committee. Im entitled to treat this as 
confidential, because  it is commercially sensitive. But after considering  this information, Im 
satisfied that HBS reached its lending decision fairly,  after taking into account all relevant 
factors, including (but not limited to) affordability,  exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Fs 
specific circumstances.
Given this, Im satisfied that HBS gave fair consideration to this application and so 
legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding the terms upon which it 
would lend to Mr and Mrs F. This means that there  is no basis  upon  which  I can find that 
HBS has treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly  or unreasonably.
Mr F is also unhappy about the format of the mortgage documentation,  as he says the 
information contained in it wasnt sufficiently clear.  But the KFI and the mortgage offer are in 
the format prescribed  by the regulator,  and so HBS isnt under any obligation to provide 
them in another way. As HBS explained in its final response letter, KFIs have now been 
replaced by ESIS documents,  which are in a different format.  
The documents Mr and Mrs F were provided  with in relation  to this application are those I 
would expect them to receive. It was up to their mortgage broker to go through the 
documents and answer any queries Mr and Mrs F might have had about the mortgage terms 
and conditions if they were unclear about  anything.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. I can see from the very detailed  
presentation of his case that he feels very strongly about what he perceives to be an 
injustice perpetrated  on him by HBS.  I dont underestimate his strength of feeling, but Im 
afraid I dont agree with him that HBS has treated him and Mrs F unfairly.
Ref: DRN42669304my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4266930