K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that Metro Bank PLC will not refund seven disputed transactions made  
from her account.
background
Ms W says fraudulent bank transfers totalling  £6400  were made from her Metro account  
between 2 January  and 18 January 2018.  All these  disputed transactions  were made to 
Ms Ws ex-partner who Ill call X. 
Ms W said she was on holiday  in Australia  with X when the transactions took place. She 
thinks X without her permission used  her phone to access her mobile  banking  and carried  
out the transactions into his account.
Ms W says she wasnt aware of the transactions until she visited  a branch on the 
22 January 2018  on her return to the UK. She says she went  into the branch to get a new 
bank card as the old one had been destroyed whilst in Australia. It was whilst at the branch 
she discovered the disputed transactions, reported  them to Metro and deactivated her 
mobile banking.
Ms W says she didnt  give X her mobile banking details and she hadnt disclosed her PIN to 
him. 
Ms W says her claim wasnt investigated  properly by Metro and she had to report  it several 
times. Metro said it thought this was a civil dispute  in particular they highlighted that X had 
already been set up as a beneficiary- and they thought Ms W must have carried  out the 
transactions herself or given X her details so that he could do it. Metro relied on the terms 
and conditions of the account  to deny her claim.
Ms W was unhappy with Metros response, so she asked  us to investigate.
Our investigator upheld  her complaint. He thought that Ms Ws evidence  of the violent and 
abusive relationship was believable, and the police had confirmed Ms W had reported an 
incident on 22 January as she had claimed. He thought it was more  likely than not that X had 
accessed Ms Ws phone  and her mobile banking to make the disputed transactions.  Our 
investigator also considered whether Ms W had been grossly negligent. He thought  she 
hadnt. He said Ms W had been  a victim of domestic and financial abuse and that her details 
had been compromised by X observing her. He also thought Metro had not investigated the 
complaint when she had first reported  it and considered Ms W should  be paid £100 in 
recognition for these  service failures.
Metro didnt agree with our investigators  view it said Ms W had consented to the payments 
or that she must have known that X knew her details. 
Metro queried how X could have obtained the PIN tor her phone  and Metro account and 
access to her phone  on a number of occasions to carry out the transactions without her 
knowledge. Metro  thought  if Ms W didnt consent  to the transactions that access to these 
security details meant Ms W must have acted with gross negligence. 
Metro agreed that there had been service failures and were happy  to pay £100 in 
compensation for these.
Ref: DRN41050042As no agreement was reached  the matter has come  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Metro can hold Ms W liable  for the disputed  transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not she made  or authorised them herself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Ms Ws genuine  security  details were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Metro  to hold Ms W liable. So, I also need  to think  about  
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Ms W consented to the transfers 
being made. 
The evidence shows that the transactions were  carried out from Ms Ws phone  using mobile  
banking. Ms W explained  that her phone PIN and her Metro  PIN were the same  its 
plausible X observed  her entering the code on her phone whilst on holiday or on another  
occasion. 
I have thought about how the transactions could have been  carried  out without Ms Ws 
knowledge. Although Ms W has said that she kept her phone  with her most of the time. It 
seems plausible  that X could have got hold of Ms Ws phone and PIN as they were  living  
together whilst  on holiday  for an extended  time.
I have considered why I think  its more  likely  than not Ms W didnt consent to the disputed  
transactions. I say this because:
-Ms W reported  it immediately on discovering  the fraudulent transactions
-Ms W cancelled her app immediately on discovering the fraud
-On the 18 January  2018 two transactions are made on the same day  it seems  
unlikely if they were genuine transactions  that Ms W would do this.
-Ms W didnt check her account  whilst on holiday this suggests  she wasnt expecting 
any activity on her account whilst away
-Overall the transfer activity doesnt  fit what Id expect for genuine transactions   with 
a high number  of transactions to the same payee over a two-week period
-Soon  after the fraudulent transactions Ms W went to the police to report an incident 
of physical violence by X. The police have  confirmed that Ms W reported  an incident 
to them  but have not confirmed the nature or severity of the incident. This makes me 
think that Ms Ws version of events is more likely than not. 
Ref: DRN41050043Did Ms W act with Gross Negligence?
The bank has said Ms W acted with gross negligence by allowing X access to her phone  but, 
I think most  of us in a relationship wouldnt hide or lock away our phone  from our partners. 
To expect  Ms W to do so is to hold her to a higher standard  of behaviour than is normally  
expected. So, I dont believe this behaviour is grossly negligent.
The bank has also said Ms W was grossly  negligent in that she allowed X access to her PIN 
and security details. It is likely that X could have learnt Ms Ws PIN as they were  in a 
relationship. Many people  carry out transactions in front of their partner without thinking that 
their details have been  compromised. I dont think a reasonable person would regard their 
partner as a risk when  carrying out banking activity. I believe its a likely explanation that X 
observed Ms W over the course of the relationship and therefore knew  her details. To expect 
Ms W not to use her banking  app or her phone unless she was on her own is to hold her to a 
higher standard of behaviour than is normal in everyday  life. So, I dont think  she acted with 
gross negligence.
Taking everything into account  I find that Ms W didnt consent  to the disputed transactions. I 
also dont think she acted  with gross negligence in the way she used her telephone banking  
details and PIN for the reasons I have outlined  above.  It follows  that Metro should refund 
Ms W the disputed transactions. 
I think that the £100 that Metro have  agreed  to pay for the service  failures  is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Metro Bank  PLC should:
Refund Ms W the disputed transactions 
Add 8% interest from the date of the transactions up to the date the settlement is 
paid
Pay £100 compensation for the distress caused  to Ms W for the service failings
If Metro Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) to 
withhold income tax from those parts of the award  constituting the 8% interest, it should tell 
Ms W how much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4105004