K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim  
he made under his car insurance policy. Mr Ss representative Miss G is helping Mr S with 
his complaint. 
background
In August  2018  Mr Ss car was damaged by debris  from a vehicle in front and this caused 
damage to the windscreen and some bodywork. Mr S made  a claim to his insurer,  Admiral. It 
arranged for Mr Ss car to be repaired at one of its approved repairers  (AR). Mr S was 
initially told the repairs would take a few days.  He had use of an older second car  so he 
decided not to take up the option of having  a courtesy  car for the duration of the repairs.
Unfortunately the windscreen part wasnt available from the manufacturer for some  time and 
didnt arrive until December 2018.  While  Mr Ss car was at the AR, it caused further damage 
to it. Mr S complained to Admiral. Mr S made two further complaints  but hes satisfied with 
the way Admiral resolved these. So I wont refer to them in my decision.
In January 2019 Admiral agreed  for Mr S to have his car repaired including the damage 
caused by the AR - at a manufacturer dealership approved garage. Admiral  paid Mr S £650  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused him. Because Mr S chose for a 
non-approved repairer to carry out the repairs, Admiral said it wouldnt provide a courtesy  
car.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with the compensation Admiral  paid him. So this was the issue  our 
adjudicator investigated. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ss request for the AR not to carry out the repairs  was 
reasonable - given  it had caused further  damage to his car. But Mr S said his second car 
was older and required maintenance while his car was with the AR. So Mr S thought Admiral 
should cover  the running and repair costs for the second car. 
The adjudicator didnt think Admiral should cover these costs   but thought  it was unfair that 
Mr S didnt have use of a courtesy car while the non AR repaired his car. So she 
recommended Admiral pay Mr S £10 a day  equivalent to the daily rate we use for loss of 
use  from the time the AR caused additional damage to the date Mr Ss car was returned  to 
him following the repairs. 
Mr S didnt agree. He doesnt think the compensation  amount reflects  the worry and 
inconvenience Admiral  caused him. 
Admiral didnt agree. It says Mr S had use of another  car  and it says the manufacturer  
dealership approved garage caused  some delay as well as its own AR. 
So as both parties disagree,  the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
Ref: DRN49950752I think the compensation of £650 that Admiral has paid Mr S  along  with the agreement for 
his car to be repaired at a garage of his choice - was reasonable and in line with our 
approach. But I agree  with the adjudicators recommendations to put things right.  Ill explain  
why.
Its clear that what appeared from the outset  to be a straight forward repair  which would take 
about a week,  in reality  took six months  - and caused Mr S considerable distress and 
inconvenience. Ive no doubt this took its toll and Miss G has explained that dealing with the 
claim and complaint has had a negative impact on Mr Ss health. 
Mr S feels  Admiral  should compensate him for the months he paid for the purchase hire of 
his car while  he couldnt  use it, tax and insurance, and repairs to his second older car. 
He says that none of this is his fault.  Mr S is very upset with the way Admiral dealt with the 
claim and his complaint.  
I understand that Mr S wasnt able to enjoy  the use of his car because  of the delay in having 
it repaired. But the costs of purchasing a car, taxing and insuring it are costs  that are 
payable in any event  (unless the car is declared off the road which  isnt the case here).  
Admiral compensated  Mr S. Ill address the level of compensation later in my decision.  
Mr S used a second older car for sports trips. He believes Admiral is responsible for 
additional running and maintenance costs he had to pay while  using this older car while he 
wasnt able to use his newer car. However,  Mr S was still using the older vehicle and so he 
would have taxed  and insured it in any event. And as it was older and was of a higher 
mileage and condition,  I cant  say that Admiral  should cover  any maintenance costs  for the 
second car while Mr S used it. 
But I can understand why Mr S initially declined the use of a courtesy car. He believed  the 
repairs would take a few days.  He explained that he needed a bigger vehicle to carry 
equipment for work. So Mr S was comfortable using the older  vehicle that he owned  on the 
understanding that it was for the short term. 
Admiral said that the wait time for the windscreen part was two months and out of the control  
of the AR. However, during this period the AR didnt carry out any of the bodywork repairs   
and caused further damage to Mr Ss car. And from Admirals  timeline the windscreen 
replacement part appears to have arrived on or just before 19 December 2018 (which the 
manufacturer dealership approved garage fitted). This is four months later two months 
longer than the timeframe given to Mr S in September 2018. 
I agree  that Admiral  isnt responsible for any delay  caused by the manufacturers timeframe  
to deliver the part - as this is outside of the ARs control. But due to the circumstances 
involved, I dont  think it was fair that Mr S was denied  the availability of a courtesy car 
because his car was being repaired elsewhere. If Admiral and the AR had managed Mr Ss 
expectations and handled things better early on, I think  its more likely that Mr S would have  
used a courtesy car and limited the use of his second older  car. I think  he did all he could to 
mitigate loss here.
And although subsequent  repair  parts may have taken longer than expected  to arrive as well 
as the repairs  by the non-approved AR, these secondary repairs  wouldnt have been 
necessary had the AR not caused the damage. So any further delay ultimately  stemmed 
from the failings  of Admirals AR.
Ref: DRN49950753So I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Admiral to pay Mr S the equivalent of £10 a 
day for the period he wasnt provided with a courtesy car because  of further damage caused 
by the AR: this should be from 11 September 2018  to the date the secondary  repairs  were 
completed. This reflects the average daily rate we apply  for use of a courtesy car  which 
Mr S was entitled to under  the terms and conditions of his policy  if hed used an AR. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S £10 a day from the date his car was further  damaged by the AR to the 
date the secondary  repairs  were  completed by a non-approved AR. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4995075