K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr W complained that Coutts & Company only allowed them six months  to sell 
their property, after the end of the rental agreement.
background
On 29 January 2016, Coutts issued Ms S and Mr W with a residential mortgage offer. This 
was partly to refinance existing borrowing, and partly new borrowing. The loan was on an 
interest only basis, and it was due to end on 31 December 2017. 
The application documents record that Ms S and Mr W intended to repay the facility from the 
sale of the property. The document went on to record:
You have advised  that should  you not have been able to either repay in full or refinance the 
revised facilities by the spring of 2017  then you will formally place [name of property] on the 
market for sale, as you are aware that the facilities being provided by the bank  are agreed to 
31 December 2017 and will need  to be repaid in full by this time.
Ms S and Mr W didnt repay the mortgage  on 31 December  2017. There were  discussions 
between Ms S and Mr W. On 17 May 2018 Coutts  wrote to confirm  that it was willing:
to delay  taking action  to recover  all outstanding borrowing for a period of 18 months  from 
01/06/18 to allow time for you to market, exchange and complete on a sale of the property  
being [name of property]... 
Meanwhile, we understand that you are wishing to rent the said property on a one year fixed  
term non Housing Act Tenancy Agreement commencing  1 June 2018. Please note that...we 
have to consent to the property being let to a third party and we are prepared  to provide 
consent subject  to the conditions below.
The conditions included:
Rental payments... must be remitted directly to the bank and will be applied  to cover  the 
cost of interest accruing ... and to facilitate capital reductions where  possible...
The tenants must vacate  the property immediately following  the expiry  of the tenancy 
agreement being  31/05/19.
You will both need  to obtain  independent legal advice from a solicitor of your choosing  
regarding this agreement.
The letter went on to say:
At the end of the tenancy on 31/05/19, the bank will then provide a period of 6 months 
forbearance in respect  of the monthly  interest  cost.  This agreement is in line with the banks 
guidelines for expired facilities and does not constitute a formal extension  or restructure  of 
the borrowing.
Ms S and Mr W didnt immediately set up a tenancy.  I understand they were trying  to sell the 
property, but the sale fell through.  In July 2018,  Ms S and Mr W provided Coutts with a copy  
of the new tenancy agreement  which they were setting up for 12 months.
Ref: DRN40356882Ms S and Mr W complained to Coutts about a number of issues. Some  of these have been 
dealt with in other complaints to this service, because Ms S and Mr W didnt accept Coutts  
responses. The issue which is the subject  of this complaint  was that Coutts  didnt provide 
Ms S and Mr W with long enough to sell the property after the end of the tenancy agreement.  
The investigator didnt  uphold Ms S and Mr Ws complaint. She said that Coutts had given 
Ms S and Mr W an extra  18 months  to sell the property  when  they didnt pay off the 
mortgage on the due date of 31 December 2017.  She didnt consider Coutts had done 
anything wrong  by adhering to what it had set out in the 17 May 2018 letter.
Ms S and Mr W werent satisfied. They  said they didnt accept the findings, and they 
believed the investigation had been flawed. They said the investigator hadnt addressed 
comments which senior bank executives had made. This refers to objections  theyve made  
to this service about documents obtained  from Coutts through  a subject access request.  But 
the investigator had explained to Ms S and Mr W that we can only consider complaints which 
have previously been referred  to the financial institution for their comments.  They hadnt 
followed this process,  so we couldnt consider the new complaint  points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its important to set out what I can and cant consider.  I cant  consider matters which 
have previously been the subject of complaints to this service, which have been dealt with 
and closed. And as the investigator has explained, we also cant consider new issues  such  
as the alleged comments by senior bank executives   until consumers have complained to 
the financial institution and given it an opportunity to issue a final response.
So this final decision only deals with Ms S and Mr Ws complaint that Coutts & Company 
only allowed them six months to sell a property, after the end of the rental agreement.
The mortgage offer is very clear that Ms S and Mr W had to repay the mortgage  on 
31 December 2017. So they had always known it was their responsibility to pay off the 
mortgage at or before  that point. They didnt do so, and I consider that Coutts letter of 
17 May 2018 sets out clearly what the bank was prepared to do to help Ms S and Mr W. This 
specifically states  that Coutts was willing to delay for 18 months, subject to certain 
conditions. So they were given leeway until mid-November 2019.  I find this was fair and 
reasonable, and designed  to help Ms S and Mr W.
It was Ms S and Mr Ws choice to set up a tenancy during this period, rather  than continue  to 
leave the property empty to facilitate a sale. Subject  to Coutts  consent, they were entitled  to 
make this choice. And Coutts gave consent to a one-year tenancy, subject to certain  
conditions which I consider were fair. But, having  made this choice to set up a tenancy, I 
dont consider Ms S and Mr W can then reasonably claim that it was Coutts  fault that they 
didnt have long enough after the tenancy finished,  to sell the property.
I note that Ms S and Mr W have complained that they wanted to set up a three-year tenancy 
but Coutts refused. Agreeing to a longer  tenancy would have meant further  delay in getting 
the mortgage money back, and I find that Coutts  was entitled to refuse. In fact it didnt have  
to agree to a tenancy at all, as it was entitled to have its money back  at 31 December 2017.  
Ref: DRN40356883Ive looked at the tenancy agreement which sets out at what point during the tenancy the 
tenants could  be required to allow potential purchasers reasonable access  to view the 
property. Clause 30 says that the tenant  agrees:
To permit or enable the Landlord or the Agent  at reasonable hours  upon  giving prior notice 
and at mutually convenient times  within the last eight weeks  of the Tenancy to enter and 
view the property with prospective tenants  or purchasers.
So, in addition to the time between the end of the tenancy and the 18 month deadline of 
November 2019,  Ms S and Mr W had a further  eight  weeks when potential purchasers could 
view the property.
Looking at timescales, I find that it was clear in Coutts letter of 17 May 2018 that there was 
to be a period  of 18 months only, subject to conditions. I consider this was a fair and 
reasonable proposal to allow Ms S and Mr W leeway when they couldnt pay back what  they 
owed, on time on 31 December 2017. This 18 month period was almost as long as the 
original mortgage,  which had been from January 2016 to December  2017.
And within that 18 month period,  it was up to Ms S and Mr W to manage their time so they 
could meet the revised deadline  in November 2019. It was their choice to rent out the 
property, and to do so for 12 months.  If they felt they wanted the property to be vacant for a 
longer period to enable potential purchasers  to view, they could have rented the property for 
a shorter proportion of the 18 months,  or not at all.
I also note that that letter  required Ms S and Mr W to take legal advice  about  this agreement. 
So it wouldnt be reasonable for Ms S or Mr W to say that they didnt understand or didnt 
accept Coutts offer. 
Taking all these factors into account, I find that Coutts treated Ms S and Mr W fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4035688