K820x#14Complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Friendly  Society Limiteds (LV) response to his claim 
made on an income protection insurance policy.
Background
Mr B applied for the policy in 2017.  Around  two weeks  later, he was admitted to hospital.  
Mr B had subsequent  related hospital admissions and eventually made a claim on the policy  
in 2018 after being diagnosed as suffering with kidney stones.
After assessing  the available information, LV decided not to pay the claim.  It said Mr B ought 
to have told it about some of the health  problems hed experienced prior to completing the 
policy application. LV said if hed done  that, it would  have postponed the start of the policy, 
during which  time his hospital admissions and diagnosis  would have  meant the condition he 
claimed for would have  been excluded from cover.
Unhappy with LVs decision,  Mr B complained  to us. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt  recommend that it be upheld. They believed LV had acted fairly in 
response to the claim.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and so the case  was passed to me to review afresh. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
In my view, two important  issues  for me to consider in this complaint are whether it was fair 
for Mr B to have answered the questions on the application form as he did and whether it 
was fair for LV to rely on the medical evidence  it did to decline the claim. These issues  are, 
of course, very closely linked.
Regarding the application  form I can see Mr B was asked, among other things, if hed 
suffered any condition affecting his bowel or digestive system in the last five years  
regardless of whether hed seen a doctor,  required treatment or had time off work. It was 
explained that this included problems  with his stomach. He answered No.  
According to the discharge summary for Mr Bs first hospital admission for kidney stones in 
2017, hed experienced  symptoms of the condition  recorded  as abdominal pain  for two 
months. Just below that, it was recorded  that this may be a chronic presentation. Other 
medical records indicate hed had episodes  similar to this previously.
Looking at the question Mr B was asked as part of the policy application  and his response, 
together with the medical evidence from his treating doctors, Im satisfied that information  
wasnt disclosed and that he ought to have  disclosed it. 
In addition, Im satisfied this information would have affected the terms on which LV was 
prepared to offer Mr B the policy and, in turn, that it wouldnt have paid his claim. I say that 
because LVs provided its underwriting guidance which shows it would have delayed 
Ref: DRN45344852accepting Mr Bs application due to his abdominal  pain and would eventually have added  a 
clause to his policy excluding claims for kidney stones  or related conditions.
Mr B wouldnt have  been able to claim  on the policy for his medical  condition  had the 
exclusion clause been in place. 
Mr B argues  the doctor who noted that hed suffered  symptoms for two months  meant to say 
hed had symptoms  for two hours . And hes provided a copy of a letter he sent asking for the 
information to be corrected. I understand the treating doctor  can longer be reached, which I 
realise must  be frustrating  for Mr B. Nevertheless,  the information as it stands  and without 
any corrections to date from relevant medical  staff  indicates hed suffered similar 
symptoms before.
I dont think it significant that the PMH, or past medical history, was recorded as Nil of 
note. I believe the treating  doctor  likely meant  there was nothing  other  than what  theyd 
already recorded   that is, that Mr B had suffered similar symptoms in the past  and not that 
there was no past history  whatsoever.
I also dont think it significant that it was recorded  that Mr Bs pain started in the early hours 
on the day of his initial hospital  admission. Mr B says this shows  the pain hadnt been  
present previously. I cant say for sure,  but I take the medical records to mean  that the 
current episode of pain hed been  admitted for hadnt started until that morning  not that he 
hadnt suffered  with the pain before.
LVs offered  to continue  with the cover  with the addition of the exclusion clause or to cancel 
the policy and refund all the premiums Mr Bs paid to date.  Taking everything into account, I 
dont think LVs offer, or its response  to Mr Bs claim in general, has been unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4534485