K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a series of loans.
background
Briefly:
Miss O took out a series of loans  with Nationwide over a period of three years.  The first loan 
didnt have PPI attached  to it, so it doesnt  form part of this complaint. But the other four 
loans taken out between 2000 and 2002  did have PPI. 
All four policies  were single premium  policies where the cost was added  to the loan upfront 
and was repayable over the full term of the loans. The terms ranged from three years to five 
years.
Nationwide said one of the loans was taken out over the phone, but it cant  say how the 
others were  conducted.
Miss M says her circumstances were the same  for all of the loans  she was employed full 
time, she wasnt entitled to any sick pay and she didnt have any other  means such  as 
savings or other policies  she couldve  relied on to make her loan payments.
Nationwides records show Miss Os last loan ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said the evidence  indicated it was made 
clear Miss O had a choice  about  PPI and there was nothing else to show  that shed lost out 
as a result  of taking  the policies out. They also said Nationwide didnt have to pay back any 
commission or profit share Miss O paid with her policies.
Miss O, through her representative  disagrees  that her PPI wasnt mis-sold. In summary she 
says:
she was never asked any medical  questions to see if she qualified  for a claim.
theres nothing on the documents provided to show where she couldve declined  PPI.
she didnt receive any paperwork  outlining how PPI worked and what her options  
were.
she doesnt feel the paperwork was clear enough  for someone who doesnt  
understand jargon and Nationwide cant provide a transcript  showing how it went 
through the options  with her and how it provided advice.
The complaint has therefore been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ref: DRN49297692Firstly I think Nationwide made  it clear that Miss O didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Nationwide doesnt  know  and Miss O hasnt  said either  how all of the loans  with PPI 
were taken out. But it says the first one was done over the phone. Miss O is right that 
Nationwide doesnt  have a call recording,  transcript or a phone  script for this sale. But I dont 
think this is surprising or unusual given how long ago the sale took place  and how long the 
loan has been  closed  businesses arent obliged to keep records indefinitely.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan agreement for this and the other  loans Miss O 
signed. And I can see here that in all four cases PPI was described as optional  and the cost 
of the cover  was set out separately from the principal loan amount. I can see Miss O says 
the paperwork wasnt clear enough.  But I disagree. I think  describing something as optional 
and by separating  out the PPI from the main loan on the agreement it was reasonable for 
her to have  understood PPI was being  added and that she had a choice about it.
Miss O says the paperwork provided doesnt  give the option to decline PPI. And while this is 
the case, Im mindful that it wouldve  been necessary for Miss O to have completed  an 
application for her loans   a loan agreement  is only produced  once the loan is approved.  
And while I havent seen a copy  of the application, given what the loan agreements  say 
about PPI, I think its more likely than not Miss O was asked about  PPI at the application 
stage and the loan agreements reflect the choice she made.  Ive not seen enough evidence 
to persuade me something different happened.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Miss O  Ive not seen enough to persuade me that 
advice was given  and a personal  recommendation made. So it didnt have to check  if PPI 
was right for her by asking questions about her health for example as Miss O says should 
have happened. But it did have to make sure Miss O got the information she needed to help 
her decide  if it was right for her. 
While Im satisfied  the cost information was made  clear to Miss O on each occasion  
Nationwide set out separately the PPI premium,  the interest charged on the premium, the 
total cost and the monthly cost, I accept  its possible the other information Nationwide  gave 
her about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But Ive found  more likely than not that she chose to take out the PPI on each occasion - so 
it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
each time (they didnt fundamentally alter between  2000  and 2002) it doesnt  look like she 
was affected by any of the significant exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong; particularly given Miss O told us she had 
no other means to fall back on. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Ive thought about the fact that Miss O took out a series of loans - she repaid each one early  
by refinancing with another loan.  With some single premium policies this can mean a 
consumer loses out when the refund terms dont  allow for this flexibility. But in Miss Os case  
Nationwide provided  pro-rata refunds on all four policies.  And Ive seen Nationwides  records 
which show this. Im therefore satisfied she didnt lose out when she refinanced her 
borrowing.
Ref: DRN49297693So overall I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put Miss O off taking out 
PPI with her four loans. This means  Nationwide doesnt need to do anything  to put things 
right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4929769