K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) transferring money from her current  
account to settle  her arrears. She wants HSBC to remove all negative information from her 
credit file, let her know her up to date level of arrears and to pay her compensation. 
background
In early 2016 Miss L took out a loan with HSBC  over a period of five years. The monthly 
repayments for her loan were £278.  
In summer  2018, Miss L fell into arrears  with her loan. She knew that she had missed 
payments and called  HSBC in July 2018  to clear her arrears.  
She asked  the agent to confirm her arrears. The agent, in error, told her that her arrears  
were only one months payment, or £278. Miss L asked the agent to check, as she knew that 
she had missed 2 or 3 payments.  She told the advisor that she had the funds available  at 
that time to settle the arrears but that if he confirmed that her arrears were  lower she would  
spend the money another way. The agent  confirmed  that her arrears  were £278. 
The agents  advice later proved to be incorrect and Miss L complained  to HSBC.
HSBC responded  to Miss Ls complaint in September apologising for the error. It advised her 
that she was by that time £824 in arrears, and offered her a credit to her account of £100 to 
reflect the inconvenience caused by receiving the wrong advice  in July. It stated that it would 
amend any adverse data on Miss Ls credit  file from July 2018  onwards, and requested  that 
Miss L clear the arrears by the end of December 2018 in order to allow HSBC to amend the 
credit file. 
In October  2018, Miss Ls arrears stood  at £1102. 
On 15 October 2018 Miss L called HSBC whilst on holiday. She asked that £278 be 
transferred from her current account towards the arrears. 
HSBC instead  transferred  the full amount of the arrears out of Miss Ls account. 
Miss L looked her balance  to check that her intended payment had been made. She was 
distressed to find that the full arrears  amount had been debited  from her current account, 
leaving her with less money than she expected  to have whilst on holiday. 
Miss L called  HSBC immediately. She was informed that a set off had been applied  to settle 
her arrears  and was initially told by bank  staff that it could not be reversed. After  making  
lengthy calls and escalating her concerns to a manager the arrears funds were moved back  
to Miss Ls current account  on the same day.
Miss L submitted a complaint. 
The business sent its final response  letter to Miss L in late October 2018. 
It set out that HSBC  had the right to apply set off as per the account terms and that usually 
this would not be reversible. It acknowledged  that Mrs L was on holiday at the time,  
Ref: DRN48299312however, and that the transfer of funds caused  her inconvenience. It offered Mrs L £50 
compensation for her inconvenience. 
Miss L was not happy with this response  and contacted us. 
Miss L stopped making her regular loan repayments and requested  an up to date balance of 
her arrears.  
HSBC sent Miss L a default notice in early 2019. Miss L subsequently reached a repayment 
agreement with HSBC,  and has begun paying an amount to cover  her month repayment with 
an additional  amount to settle her arrears.  
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and has set out her view to the 
parties. During the course  of the investigation HSBC increased its offer of compensation to 
£100 (in addition to the £100 credit paid in September 2018  for the earlier complaint). This 
offer was to reflect that it shouldnt have moved  the funds from Miss Ls current  account 
when she was still within the period agreed  for her to settle the arrears. Our investigator 
thought that this was reasonable and in line with awards we would make. She therefore  did 
not recommend  that HSBC do anything further.
Miss L was not happy with that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate that this matter  has caused  Miss L significant upset, and that she has 
been particularly  concerned about her credit  file being impacted by her arrears. 
I understand this, and also understand that it would have been worrying  to discover, whilst 
on holiday, that more of her money  had been  taken towards the loan account than she had 
authorised. This could  have left her without funds to enjoy her holiday, although I am 
pleased that the payment was reversed  later on the same day. 
I agree  that HSBC  was wrong  to apply set off in October 2018,  because Miss L already had 
an agreement in place  allowing her time to settle the arrears. 
Miss L noticed the issue immediately and was able to contact HSBC. Miss L had to spend a 
long time on the phone until the error was corrected and it took up a substantial proportion  of 
a day of Miss Ls holiday. 
I therefore agree that HSBC ought  to pay Miss L compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her on this day, and because its final response did not offer a clear 
acknowledgement of the error,  or apology for this transfer. 
Over the course of the complaint investigation,  HSBC has agreed  that it will amend Miss Ls 
credit file from July 2018 onwards so it will not show arrears linked to their incorrect advice. 
This means  that when Miss L has settled the arrears  which she was wrongly  advised  about 
in July (I believe £824)  HSBC will update Miss Ls credit file to not show these arrears. Now 
Ref: DRN48299313that Miss L has a repayment plan in place,  I would expect HSBC to put Miss Ls additional  
payments towards  the earlier arrears first. 
HSBC will also send Miss L regular  information confirming her arrears  balance. 
I think this is appropriate.
Since October, however,  I do not think that HSBC has been responsible for Miss Ls 
increasing arrears, and her consequent worry about her credit file. Miss L decided  to stop 
making payments  on her loan account and said that she needed an up to date arrears  
balance in order to set up a repayment schedule. I do not agree with this approach  and think 
that she ought to have  continued paying her monthly payments whilst awaiting an arrears 
statement. Her decision to stop payments has meant that she has received  more 
correspondence and that her arrears  balance has varied and increased each month. 
HSBC has offered £100 compensation for Miss Ls distress and inconvenience. Our 
investigator considered  that this was appropriate and in line with awards we would make  in 
similar circumstances. 
I agree  that this compensation is appropriate. Miss L was caused  the surprise and distress of 
the arrears being  taken  from her account in full, while she was on holiday.  I appreciate  that 
this would have  completely disrupted  the day, and HSBCs response letter was not as 
helpful as it could have been.  However  the funds were returned  to her on the same day so I 
think that Miss Ls distress flowing  from this action was limited  to a short time. I therefore 
think that the offer is in line with awards  we would make.  
I appreciate that Miss L has suffered ongoing worry about her credit  file, but as set out 
above, I think this flows from her decision to stop paying her loan for several  months while 
she complained.  As this was not an error of HSBC  I do not think it would be fair or 
reasonable to require  HSBC to compensate Miss L for this distress.  
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Miss L, but I hope it clearly explains my 
reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss Ls complaint, but think  that HSBC UK Bank 
Plc has made a reasonable offer of resolution. I do not ask HSBC  UK Bank Plc to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48299314
Ref: DRN4829931