K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited trading  as Cashplus restricted his 
account.
background
Mr M found out that his account was restricted on 29 November 2018. He tried to contact 
Cashplus. He was unhappy that he did not have  access to his account  again until 21 
January 2019.  He says that this has affected his business.
The investigator recommended  that Mr M be paid compensation of £150.  He said that:
-Cashplus had legitimate reasons to restrict the account.
-There was no evidence that the relevant department in Cashplus attempted to 
contact Mr M until 10 December 2018  following his calls.
-On 20 December 2018 Cashplus says it told Mr M that he needed  to complete a form 
about his account  usage. It was not clear why that form was not sent out to him 
earlier.
-Taking into account the two working  days that Cashplus  said was normal for a call 
back (which would  be by 4 December 2018) he thought that there was a delay of 16 
days.
-He said that Mr M should  be compensated for this delay in access to his account. He 
could not consider  the impact on any separate legal entity as Mr M wanted.
Cashplus did not agree.  It said that it had tried to call Mr M back earlier but had been  
unsuccessful. The team involved only works Monday to Friday between  9am and 6pm.  But 
even accepting for that it could not explain the delay in returning the call until 10 December 
2018. It did not know that a form was required until it had spoken to Mr M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the final response  Cashplus stated that it wanted to investigate  business transactions that 
were being  made through Mr Ms personal  account.  And it decided  it wanted Mr M to 
complete a specific form about this. When he completed this he was able to continue  to use 
the account in the same  way.
So the issue  here is the time it took to complete the investigation. There  are records  of a 
number of calls Mr M made about this. And hes also provided copies of emails  hes sent. 
While it seems he was able to speak to the customer services team, he was not able to 
speak with the one person that would carry out the review for some time. Clearly some  calls 
were missed  and Mr M states  that on occasion he received silent  calls.  During  this period   
Mr M was sending  emails to Cashplus and had also contacted this service.
I need to take an overall view about what happened. Its reasonable to consider the number 
of actual days before this was resolved. And thats because  Mr M wanted to use his account  
at all times. Cashplus accepts it cannot explain the delay  to 10 December 2018.  And Im 
unclear why if as it says it asked Mr M to complete a form on 20 December 2018 it then had 
to explain this request  to him again  on 15 January  2019. It received it the next day.
Ref: DRN47670562Given that Cashplus was prepared to let Mr M use the account  in the way he wanted for his 
business then I think that the delay was unreasonable and there  was poor customer  service. 
But I agree  with the investigator that for the purpose of our review  we can only look here at 
the impact on Mr M personally. The amount of compensation is one for my judgement taking 
into account our published guidelines.  I think that the amount suggested is reasonable  taking 
into account all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus to pay Mr M £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4767056