K820x#14complaint
Miss C and Mr R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc caused delays to the 
repairs to their house following a claim they made  on their insurance policy.  Theyre also 
unhappy with the work  undertaken by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs contractors.
background
Miss C brings this complaint on behalf of her and her partner, Mr R. Because of this, I will 
refer to her throughout. 
This complaint relates to the issues Miss C has complained about up to the point RSA 
issued its final response on 13 April 2018. The issues shes complained  about  after this point 
are the subject of a separate complaint.
Miss C has a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with RSA.  Her home experienced 
damage as a result of a fire in the next door property  in April 2017. She made a claim on her 
buildings insurance  policy and RSA agreed  to cover the claim.
Contractors were appointed and Miss C wasnt happy with the work they undertook. Both 
parties are aware of the list of incidences of poor workmanship  that Miss Cs detailed  and 
the consequent change  in appointed  contractors  so I wont  go into detail here.  But in 
summary it included, amongst other  things, a lack of project management, replacement 
floorboards were not of the required standard and had to be amended,  consequent damage  
to a wall and damage to the garden  due to tiles, rubbish and food waste  being  abandoned.
The original  contract length  was 10 weeks so Miss C expected to be back  in the property 
around the end of August  2017. But in the end its taken about a year during which time she 
and her family have  been living in either a hotel or rented accommodation.
RSA accepted that the standard of workmanship of the original contractors wasnt  what  it 
should have been and agreed to appoint new contractors. It also accepted it had caused 
some delays. But it said the delays werent  entirely  its responsibility  and Miss C had 
contributed to a proportion of them. But it agreed  things hadnt  happened as quickly as they 
should have done and in recognition of this, it offered to pay Miss C £700 compensation. 
Miss C didnt think this was enough and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator decided  that the £700  RSA offered was fair and reasonable way for it to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  RSA had caused up to the point it issued  its final 
response in April 2018. Miss C didnt  agree  and asked  for an ombudsman  to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I know Miss C will be 
disappointed so Ill explain  my reasoning.
Its clear from her correspondence Miss C would  like my decision to have an impact  on the 
business and for it to be given some sort of penalty. But this services remit doesnt  extend to 
fining or punishing businesses. 
Ref: DRN41869532My role as an ombudsman is to make  a determination as to how complaints should be 
resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on the crux of the 
complaint and will only refer to the things  I consider relevant to that. Both Miss C and RSA 
have made  extensive  submissions and I confirm I have read and considered them all even 
when I only refer to them in summary. 
Where there is no dispute between  the parties  as to the circumstances of the complaint, and 
where a business  accepts  that its service fell short of what it ought to have delivered, theres 
no need for me to make a finding  on these things.  I will instead focus my attention on 
anything thats  still in dispute. In this case,  thats mainly the level of compensation RSA 
should pay Miss C for the impact of the problems it caused up to 13 April 2018 when it 
issued its final response.
RSA has a duty to handle  claims  promptly  and fairly,  and in this case  theres no dispute that 
the standard of some  of the work undertaken by its contractors was not what it should have 
been and as a result dealing with the claim  hasnt been prompt.
Without anything  going wrong, the nature of the incident and the claim in itself would cause  
distress and inconvenience that RSA is not either contractually,  or fairly responsible for.
That said,  it reasonably  follows in my view that poor workmanship and poor claim handling  is 
contrary to the duty to handle the claim promptly and fairly. And so where that negatively 
impacts on Miss C, compensation  is a reasonable way for RSA to recognise that impact. 
In this case Miss C says she experienced various  problems  with RSAs contractors and 
many of these caused delays. Her submissions include a list of more than 30 issues  
including various  aspects of poor workmanship, the behaviour  and approach of the 
contractors and things  they did that caused unnecessary inconvenience. She says this 
meant she and her family  had to live in alternative  accommodation  with the inherent 
inconvenience this would  bring  - for longer than they should have.
Miss C and RSA have presented different versions  of events as to the reasons for the 
delays. Miss C says the problems and delays were the fault of RSA. RSA denies  much of 
what shes alleged and has provided clarification and explanation for the things it says its 
not responsible  for.
RSA says Miss C was responsible for some of the delays and lists a number of time periods 
totalling 23 weeks when  it says it wasnt able to progress the repairs as it was waiting for 
Miss C. 
RSAs report and photographic evidence about  these issues  is detailed. It explains Miss C 
arranged for some betterment works  to be undertaken by RSAs contractors while  they were 
completing the fire damage repairs. Additionally she was having  a new kitchen  installed,  
some electrical work completed and work on the bathroom undertaken by her own 
contractors, separate  from the work being  done by RSAs  contractors.  And it points out that 
issues relating to these  works, among other  things,  caused the delays it wasnt  responsible 
for. 
Miss C denies that she was responsible  for delays that slowed the job down and says RSAs  
allegations are unfounded.
Ref: DRN41869533Its difficult to conclude  with certainty  the proportion of the delay  each party caused. But, on 
balance, I find RSAs  claims  and evidence that it wasnt solely  responsible for the delays 
persuasive. 
That said,  RSA accepts  it was ultimately  responsible for some  of the delays and the 
inconvenience this has caused Miss C. And because of this its offered to pay her £700  to 
reflect the trouble and upset shes been put to. Taking everything into account,  and after 
some thought, Ive concluded that this is a fair and reasonable way for the complaint to be 
settled. So I wont be asking RSA to do any more. Ill merely  leave Miss C and Mr R to let 
RSA know whether they wish to accept the £700.
In addition to this, RSA has also said it will continue to pay the £30 per day disturbance 
allowance all the time Miss C and her family have had to stay in a hotel. I note RSA has 
made a commercial decision to do this as its not something its required to do under the 
terms of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4186953