K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to move  their 
loan direct debits to their new account  with Nationwide  which led to missed payments under 
loans in their name. They dont think  RBS has done  enough to rectify the situation.
background
As I understand Mr and Mrs K transferred their main  income/direct debit account  from RBS 
to Nationwide. But direct  debits in respect  of their 2 loans  didnt  get transferred across.  RBS 
then appear to have  failed  to notice standing order payments being  made  to the loan from 
Mr and Mrs Ks Nationwide account. RBS continued to try and collect the direct  debits. This 
led to various issues such  as arrears notices  being  sent out and then overpayments being 
made. 
RBS has already taken  various steps  to rectify  the situation. Such steps  included  refunding  
overpayments, refunding  charges and adjusting interest where necessary. RBS has also 
instructed their internal credit team to amend  Mr Ks credit file for the relevant period. RBS 
has acknowledged that theyre  disappointed  with the level of service they provided and paid 
Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused  
them.
As Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy  with the situation, they referred their complaint  to our 
service. An investigator has already looked at this case. The investigator felt RBS should 
pay a further £200  compensation to Mr and Mrs K to reflect  the level of distress and 
inconvenience theyve  experienced. RBS agreed with the investigators view.  But as Mr and 
Mrs K didnt, the case has now been referred to me to look at. Mr and Mrs K are still seeking  
proper compensation from RBS for everything  they feel theyve  been  put through.  
I note from the file that the investigator  has already  explained that our service is only looking 
into the loan direct debit  issues which have been  raised. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This decision will focus on what  I think  are 
the key issues  in dispute. 
I dont think RBS did anything wrong  by not transferring Mr and Mrs Ks loan direct debits to 
Nationwide as part of the switch. RBS has referred  us to their personal  loan - general  
conditions. Ive looked at these carefully. And I accept  that they wouldve required a mandate  
form in order to do this. 
RBS has already acknowledged  there were overpayments made  incorrectly to the loan 
account. But Im satisfied that RBS has now corrected  any issues  to Mr and Mrs Ks 
accounts in respect  of any overpayments, charges and interest.  
I too, like the investigator, acknowledge that this whole matter has caused a great deal of 
distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs K. I particularly think receiving  notification  of 
arrears wouldve been incredibly upsetting. So I feel further compensation of £200  is fair to 
recognise this. I think this is reasonable redress in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN40040692my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs K a further 
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4004069