K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained that she didnt qualify for a cash incentive when she switched 
accounts to Nationwide Building  society.
background
Nationwide offered a scheme which  allowed for existing  Nationwide account  holders 
to recommend a friend.  Once the switch had been completed  (and customers met 
the terms and conditions of the scheme)  Nationwide would offer £100  to the existing 
account holder and new account  holder.
Ms S received  an email from her friend  (who  was an existing  account holder with 
Nationwide) which included a link to complete  the switch on 3 May 2018. But Ms S 
didnt complete the application to open  an account until 10 August 2018. Nationwide 
accepted the application  and the account  was opened days later.
Nationwide Kept Ms S updated  on the progress  and on  23 August 2018 the account 
had completed the switch. But Ms S says she didnt receive  any information 
regarding the incentive payment.  So in September 2011 Ms S visited  the branch to  
discuss the incentive. Ms S was told someone  would contact  her but unfortunately  
she never  received a call.
In November 2018, Ms S called  Nationwide again. She was told  that the link was 
only valid for 90 days and the full switch  had to take place within that time. So Ms S 
switch had to be completed on 1 August 2018. Ms S says she was  told to ask her 
friend to send a new link but this was incorrect information, so because of this 
Nationwide offered £50 for its error. 
Ms S didnt think  the offer Nationwide   made was fair. So she brought  the complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked  into the complaint, but she didnt recommend  
that it be upheld. To summarise she said that Nationwide had  made   Ms S and  her 
friend aware  that the switch had to be completed within the 90 days.  As it wasnt, she 
didnt qualify for the incentive. But she did agree  that the service Nationwide had 
provided could have  been better, but she felt the offer of £50  for the trouble and 
upset caused was sufficient. Ms S didnt agree  with the investigators findings, so the 
case was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Having reviewed the Terms and Conditions of the refer a friend incentive offered  by 
Nationwide, it is clear  that the switch needs to completed within 90 days of the date shown 
on the recommendation form. The commencement date was 3 May 2018. So Ms S had until 
1 August to complete the switch ensuring she met the other  eligibility criteria required to 
qualify for the incentive. 
Ref: DRN44440472As Ms S didnt complete  the switch in time,  she didnt meet the required  terms and 
conditions and therefore wasnt eligible for the incentive. With that in mind,  I cant  say 
Nationwide has acted  unfairly by not paying the cash incentive to Ms S. I say this because, it 
was a commercial decision made  by Nationwide to offer a cash  incentive  and set the rules 
on how to be eligible to qualify for the incentive.  It provided the eligibility criteria to Ms S and 
her friend, and they didnt meet the eligibility  criteria.
Ive considered the service Nationwide has provided. And while  I appreciate that it wouldnt 
be monitoring all the refer a friend  referrals  it received, I do feel that more could have been 
done to have highlighted to Ms S that she may not qualify for the incentive as she had 
missed the 90 day timeframe. 
I have also considered the incorrect  information  which was provided  to Ms S regarding 
applying for the refer a friend  incentive again.  And given the version  of events that already 
occurred, I do agree that this wouldve been misleading and led to further upset for Ms S. 
However, when considering the overall  impact it had on Ms S, I dont think  it warrants  further 
compensation than what  Nationwide has already offered.  So I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
 
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4444047