K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) was irresponsible to lend 
him money.
background
Mr M took out three  loans with QuickQuid between  February 2015 and June 2015. Mr M 
topped up loan three. A summary of his borrowing is below:
Mr M says that he was caught  in a spiral of debt. Mr M would like QuickQuid to refund the 
interest and charges that hes paid on the loans. He wants QuickQuid to remove  the loans 
from his credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, 
he thought the largest repayment on the top up of loan three  represented a significant  
proportion of Mr Ms declared monthly income of £1,225. The adjudicator didnt think  that 
QuickQuid shouldve agreed to top up loan three. 
The adjudicator recommended that QuickQuid refund  all interest  and charges that Mr M had 
paid on the top up and pay interest  on the refund.  And he said it should remove any negative 
information about the top up from Mr Ms credit file. 
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators view. It says Mr M had a very good loan 
repayment history. QuickQuid doesnt think that the regulatory framework  in place meant 
that it was obliged to consider disposable income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
QuickQuid should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:Loan Date borrowed
Amount Max instalment
No. of 
instalmentsDate repaid
1 11/02/2015 £200 £251 2 13/03/2015
2 03/04/2015 £200 £248 2 14/05/2015
3 03/06/2015 £200 £245 2 outstanding
Top Up 05/07/2015 £250 £550 2 outstanding
Ref: DRN49517942the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre borrowing a 
significant proportion  of their income.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M accepts the adjudicators recommendation about loans one to three. As I dont think 
that these loans are in dispute, I wont make a decision  about them. But as they are part of 
the same  chain of lending, I have taken them in to account when considering the top up on 
loan three.
QuickQuid says that Mr M had a good repayment history. But Mr M was borrowing regularly 
with little breaks in between loans. I think that its likely this led to Mr M having a hole in his 
finances which meant he had to borrow  again to cover his repayments. I think that the 
pattern of lending suggests that Mr M wasnt able to repay the loans in a sustainable way.
I think that QuickQuid shouldve realised that the amount it expected Mr M to repay after he 
asked to top up loan three  was a significant enough proportion of his declared monthly 
income to mean that it was likely Mr M would have to borrow  again to repay  it.
So I think that QuickQuid  shouldve realised that it was unlikely that Mr M could sustainably 
repay the top up on loan three.  
I understand that Mr M still owes money  on loan three.  As hes had the benefit of the money 
lent, its fair to allow QuickQuid to apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance if it 
wants.
Ref: DRN49517943putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on the top up of loan three;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on the top up of loan three;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  before paying any 
remaining balance (if there is any) to Mr M**; and
remove any negative entries about  the top up on loan three  from Mr Ms credit file.
If QuickQuid has sold the debt to a third party, it should buy the debt back  before doing what  
Ive said above.  If this isnt possible, QuickQuid should (in addition  to the above if 
necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr M has already paid to the third party, plus 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
ask the third party to remove any negative entries  about  the top up on loan three 
from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  
QuickQuid of its obligation to treat Mr M sympathetically and reasonably in any repayment 
discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) to put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN49517944Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN4951794