K822xComplaint
Mr S has complained about how Santander  UK Plc dealt with a chargeback claim he made,  
and with the service  he received during a telephone call relating to this. 
Background 
In October  2018, Mr S purchased airline  tickets for himself and his son. He paid around £730 
for the tickets using  his Santander  card. Unfortunately, due to his sons  health, Mr S needed  
to cancel these  tickets. He tried to obtain a refund  from the travel agent  hed bought the 
tickets through.  
Mr S has said that in a call with the agent, he was told that if he provided  certain  evidence,  
the agent would arrange for his tickets to be transferred from non-refundable to refundable. 
Mr S then sent evidence  to the agent, but they responded saying; 
Please  be informed that we never made  any commitment for full refund as we need to 
discuss the case with [the airline]  so we did it and as they have refused to provide full 
refund so we regret we are unable to process  full refund of your tickets.
Unhappy with this, Mr S contacted Santander  to raise a chargeback claim. He completed a form 
and attached a letter explaining  what  had happened. He also enclosed evidence  including an 
email chain between  himself and the agent. Santander responded to the claim saying; 
Weve reviewed the information you gave us, but unfortunately  we cant progress your 
claim within the dispute resolution  process  To resolve this, you should contact the 
retailer directly .
Mr S was dissatisfied with this response  and called  Santander to discuss it. The call handler 
offered to log a complaint and have  someone  call Mr S back, and to obtain  clarification  from 
the claims department  on the reasons the claim had not been progressed.  
Mr S then asked whether  a marker relating  to his own medical  conditions  had been flagged 
to the call handler. Mr S was unhappy  when told that no marker had been flagged  and with 
the response of the call handler on this issue. A complaint to deal with both the response  to 
the claim and the handling of this call was raised. 
Santanders response to this complaint  was that as Mr S had not provided written 
confirmation that [the travel agent  or airline had] either agreed to, or processed a refund to 
your account , Santander was not able to process the claim. And that, although  Santander 
was sorry that the call handler had not confirmed a note regarding Mr Ss condition  was on 
his profile, the call handler had remained polite and courteous. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to this service. Santander then told us that, 
having further reviewed the events, it felt that the claim response letter could have been clearer  
and the call handler could have dealt  with the call better. As such, Santander offered to pay 
Mr S £100  in compensation. Our investigator thought  this was a fair and reasonable outcome to 
the complaint,  but Mr S disagreed and so his case has been passed to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN46672952My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  there are two main issues for me to deal with in this decision;  the chargeback claim 
and the handling of the call. I will deal with each in turn. 
The chargeback claim
I am sorry  to hear about the reasons  for Mr S having  to cancel his trip. And I understand 
Mr S may also be unhappy with how his request for a refund was handled by the travel 
agent. However, my role here is to consider  whether Santander should have done  anything 
differently following Mr Ss chargeback claim. 
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by card schemes. The relevant card scheme in this 
case is VISA. If theres a problem with the goods  or services that have been paid for using a 
VISA card, the chargeback process allows a customer to ask for the relevant transaction  to 
be reversed. However,  theres no automatic right to a chargeback and this process isnt a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund.
A bank  also doesnt  have  to raise a chargeback. Although, if there is a reasonable chance 
the chargeback  claim would be successful, I consider it would be good practice for a bank  to 
try  this would likely  be treating the customer fairly and having due regard to their interests. 
Santander didnt  process Mr Ss chargeback  claim. So, whilst it wasnt obliged  to, I need to 
consider if it was fair for Santander to consider there not to be a reasonable chance of success.
Mr Ss claim is due to an unfortunate change in his circumstances meaning he needed to 
cancel his purchase. The tickets Mr S had purchased were apparently non-refundable 
though. And Mr S hasnt made any argument  to suggest this wasnt the case  or that he was 
unaware of this. His argument that his claim should  be successful is based on the agent  
having agreed to a refund. 
Santander has said that it would need  written evidence that the agent had agreed to a 
refund before it would  raise the chargeback claim.  I appreciate  Mr S may disagree,  but this 
seems a reasonable request. 
An agreement from a merchant to provide a refund of non-refundable goods isnt technically 
a reason listed in VISAs  rule for a chargeback. But it seems reasonable that if the merchant 
has agreed to the refund, a request from a consumers  bank  for this to be completed might 
lead to the consumer receiving the refund. 
However, the written  correspondence Mr S did supply to Santander  indicated  that the agent,  
and the airline,  was unwilling to offer a refund (other than of the relevant taxes). So unless it 
could be shown that a refund had in fact been  promised, I think  it is likely the agent would 
have disputed the claim. And, given the tickets were  non-refundable, I think  it was 
reasonable for Santander to consider the claim would be unsuccessful.  As such, I also dont  
consider Santander  acted  inappropriately when it didnt process the chargeback claim.
Ref: DRN46672953That said,  Santander has said that it should have been clearer  when  communicating  this to 
Mr S. And I agree that an explanation would have been beneficial to Mr Ss understanding of 
why his claim wasnt going to be processed. 
The phone call
Mr S has said that when he called Santander  to complain about the claim, the call handler 
failed to make reasonable adjustments and that this is a breach of the Equality Act 2010. 
I should say at this point  that it would be for a court to determine if such a breach of the Equality 
Act has occurred. But I do need to take into account  the relevant  law when deciding whether 
Santander has treated  Mr S fairly  and reasonably  in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Equality  Act requires,  in part, businesses such as Santander to make reasonable 
adjustments for people with disabilities, so that they are able to receive (as far as reasonably 
possible) the same  service as people without a disability. Santander has accepted that as a 
result of his medical  condition Mr S has a disability. It has also agreed that as a reasonable 
adjustment it will, where possible, avoid stressful situations. 
I will confirm at this point  that Santander  has provided screenshots  of Mr Ss profile  from its 
system. These show  that the relevant note referring  to his medical condition and the 
reasonable adjustments is present and was added  several years ago.
I have listened  to the call between Mr S and the Santander handler. The handler failed to 
note the marker  on Mr Ss profile. This continued even after Mr S had referred to it and 
asked if it was present.  The handler also didnt then deal with Mr Ss questions  around this in 
a fully appropriate manner. And I can appreciate the concerns this must  have  caused  Mr S.
Santander has agreed that this was a failing by the handler and that the call could have 
been better dealt  with. This is part of the reason it has now offered Mr S compensation. I 
understand that Mr S doesnt agree that this level of compensation is sufficient. But I need to 
consider the impact of the call. 
I agree  with Santander that the handler remained courteous and polite. She attempted to 
understand Mr Ss complaint, agreed that the claim response letter  hed been provided  with 
didnt give enough  information, and offered to both raise a complaint about  this and to find 
out more about the claim. This was also a call that Mr S had made to Santander, rather than 
the other way around. 
So I dont  think that, to this point, the call would have progressed any differently had the 
handler noted the marker on Mr Ss profile.  The service she provided to this point did limit 
Mr Ss involvement in a stressful  situation  as far as possible. The impact  of the handler 
failing to note the marker  was limited, in my view, to what happened  after this point.
The call handler clearly  made a mistake  when checking Mr Ss profile.  And, as I say, I dont 
think she dealt with the second  part of the call in the way that she should have. However, I 
consider that the £100 offered by Santander after this complaint was referred to our service 
reasonably reflects  the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr S by this call and the lack 
of clarity in its claim decision letter. 
Ref: DRN46672954My final decision
Santander UK Plc has made an offer to pay £100.  I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr S 
£100 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4667295