K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Tesco  Personal  Finance  PLC misled him into opening a credit  card account.
background
Mr L tells us he applied  for a credit card with a promotional offer of 5000 Tesco Clubcard 
points. He says he didnt receive these despite phoning Tesco  several times and being 
promised he would get them. It then told him he wasnt eligible for them.
Tesco said Mr L wasnt an existing customer at the time so he wasnt eligible to receive  the 
5,000 points. But it said itd applied 600 points to his Clubcard  account  as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Our investigator didnt  think Tesco had done  anything wrong. He thought the offer made it 
clear it was only for existing customers. And although  Tesco  couldnt locate any of the 
conversations Mr L said hed had with it about  this issue,  he didnt think  this wouldve made  
any difference to his decision.
Mr L wasnt happy with this. He said the email didnt make it clear the bonus Clubcard points 
were only available  for existing customers. And it shouldve made this clear  when he 
followed the link to apply  for the card. He cant understand why Tesco  doesnt  have a record  
of his calls. He said they are very relevant to his complaint because  by giving him misleading 
information he wasnt able to cancel his card and get a refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L tells us he responded to an email addressed to his wife which was headed 5,000 
bonus Tesco  Clubcard  points when youre accepted  for our Premium Credit  Card and which  
went on to say:
We thought youd find it useful to know that as an existing credit card customer, based  on 
the information we already hold, youve been  provisionally accepted  for our Premium Credit 
Card. We just need to check that your income,  expenditure and credit  status havent 
changed.
With an annual fee of £150,  the Premium Card offers great rewards.  Plus, youll  collect 5,000 
bonus Clubcard  points if you apply through the link in this email  by 21 February  2018  and 
are accepted. In order to be eligible  for the bonus application Clubcard points,  you must 
make a purchase or balance transfer  on your new Premium Credit Card within the first two 
months of account opening. Additional terms and conditions apply. 
I can see how strongly Mr L feels about this so I know he will disagree with me when I say 
that I think its clear from the email  that the offer was addressed to his wife and it was for 
existing credit card customers and that the bonus  offer only applied to those  customers. And 
when Mr L followed the link in his wifes email I dont think Tesco had a responsibility  to 
make it clear  that the bonus  Clubcard points were only available for existing customers. As 
Ive already said, I think it made the eligibility  clear enough in the email.
Ref: DRN41094722Mr L says if Tesco had given him the correct information when he phoned  he wouldve 
cancelled the card and got a refund. Tesco has given  us all the phone calls it had with Mr L 
from March 2018  September 2018.  The final call is when he raised his complaint about his 
Clubcard points and said he had been trying  to sort this out for six months with the Tesco  
Clubcard team and wasnt getting anywhere.  In one of the other  calls he asked about 
merging Clubcard points  and was put through to the Clubcard team. The remaining three 
calls dealt with other  matters and Clubcard  points werent mentioned.  But Tesco told us it 
didnt hold any call recordings with Clubcard as it is a separate  business.
Mr L tells us he was misled by Clubcard  and that if hed known earlier  that he wasnt eligible 
for the additional  points he wouldve cancelled the Tesco card.  I appreciate his frustration 
that the phone conversations  he had with Clubcard arent available. But thats because its a 
separate business and its not a business thats  covered by this Service.  So we cant 
comment on the service Clubcard gave him when he phoned it. He may like to contact 
Clubcard directly and ask it to review  the phone calls. But unfortunately this Service  cant 
help him with that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4109472