K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a store card in 2001. At that time he didnt elect to buy PPI. But in 2002 FICL  
sold Mr C PPI for the card in a telephone call. The policy wouldve helped  cover the 
repayments on his card if he couldnt  work. It also offered price and purchase protection,  as 
well as life cover for the balance.
Mr C says the PPI wasnt wanted, needed  or suitable.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint  should  be upheld. Mr C disagrees, so his case  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr C didnt opt to take PPI when he first opened  his store card account; it was sold to him in 
a telephone call over a year later.  Mr C doesnt suggest it was added without his knowledge 
or consent, but he says he didnt need  it and it wasnt suitable for him. As Mr C had been  
using his card for over a year before he bought the PPI I think  he wouldve understood that 
he didnt have to have it to secure  the credit. So, on balance, I think its likely Mr C bought  
the PPI knowing  he had a choice about it.
FICL didnt  provide a personal recommendation to Mr C about buying the policy, so it didnt 
have a duty to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for him. But it did have to 
make sure Mr C got all the information he needed  to make his mind up about  it. 
Its not clear whether  this would have happened, because there isnt a copy of the call 
recording available so many years later. But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold  
Mr Cs complaint. Instead, I have to consider  whether  Mr C would have acted differently and 
not bought the policy  if hed received all the information he needed. 
Looking at Mr Cs circumstances at the time I dont think more, or better,  information  would 
have changed  his mind about  buying the policy. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected  by any terms which  
might have  made it more  difficult  for him to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions;
Mr C was self-employed. But the policy didnt make it more  difficult for a self-
employed person  to make an unemployment  claim;
Mr C says he would have received some  sick pay. I think this is doubtful given that 
he worked for himself.  But even  if he was able to pay himself some sick pay, the PPI 
Ref: DRN44952412would have paid out in addition to this and would  have  continued  paying  for as long 
as Mr C was off work;
As Mr C was self-employed  he wouldnt have been entitled  to redundancy pay. The 
policy would have  covered his payments for as long as he was out of work, so it 
offered a useful  additional benefit  to Mr C;
The cost of the policy was greater than many other policies on the market around the 
same time but it paid a considerably greater benefit and could have cleared Mr Cs 
balance in only a few months if he was off work.
So while its possible  Mr C wasnt given  all the information he ideally should have been, I 
dont think it would have  affected his decision to take the PPI. I say this because it was 
suitable for him in the way Ive described.  So I dont  think Mr C lost out as a result of 
anything FICL might  have  done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint so it follows that Financial Insurance Services Limited  
dont have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4495241