K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding her liable for a loan after her ex-boyfriend  
forced her to apply  for the loan and then stole the loan money.
background
It is not in dispute  that until 2015 Miss C was in an abusive and controlling relationship with 
her boyfriend. Early  that year, she took out a £20,000 loan to buy a car. She says she was 
tricked into doing this by her boyfriend. She says the money was supposed  to be paid to her 
sole account, but Lloyds paid it to their joint account instead. Shortly  afterwards,  her 
boyfriend withdrew almost  all of the loan money and used it to pay his own debts. They  then 
split up, and he left Miss C to repay  the loan by herself.  She says this caused her financial  
hardship.
In December 2018, Miss C complained to Lloyds  that the loan had been  mis-sold. (By this 
time she had repaid  about £14,000.  She had not been in arrears.) Lloyds said that as the 
loan was in her sole name, she was solely liable to repay it. And as the money had been 
paid into a joint account, in accordance with her instructions, both account holders  had been  
entitled to spend it.
Miss C brought  this complaint  to our Service in April 2019. Our investigator did not uphold  it. 
She said that all the evidence  showed  that Miss C had agreed that the loan would  be paid to 
her joint account, and there was nothing to suggest that she had nominated her sole 
account. She said that Lloyds had had no reason to suspect what  Miss Cs boyfriend was up 
to, or to refuse to lend to her. Lloyds  hadnt known that the relationship was abusive  until 
2018, and had had no reason to suspect that it was.
Miss C asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said Lloyds hadnt done  enough to protect 
her, because her boyfriend had arranged the loan and she had only signed  it. She had 
presumed that a loan in her sole name would naturally be paid to her sole account. Asking 
for it to be paid to a joint account should  have made  Lloyds suspicious.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I was sorry to read about how Miss C was treated by her ex-boyfriend.  She has certainly  had 
a very difficult time. But I dont think that Lloyds had any reason to suspect that this was 
going on at the time.
There do not appear to have been  any obvious  signs which  ought  to have made Lloyds  
suspect that Miss C was in an abusive relationship, without being  told. She and her 
boyfriend had been  together for some time, and had been  banking together.  As far as Lloyds 
knew, on the information it had at the time, both of them had their own incomes  and were  
paying money into the joint account. I dont think it was suspicious that the loan was paid to 
a joint account,  because (as far as Lloyds  knew) they may have intended that both of them 
would contribute  to the loan repayments,  and both may have  intended to use the car. The 
loan agreement said that the loan would be paid to the joint account. And I dont think it 
would have looked suspicious that the loan was in Miss Cs sole name,  because  she had 
done that before, in 2013. (She has also complained  about the 2013 loan, on the same  
Ref: DRN44069712grounds, but that complaint was not made  until this one was, so Lloyds did not know  there 
was anything untoward about  it in 2015.) So I would not expect Lloyds to have asked her if 
everything was alright. It was reasonable for Lloyds  to assume that.
I have read the banks  contact notes. Although Miss C told Lloyds that she and her boyfriend 
had split up in 2015, three  months after the loan, the first time she mentioned that he had 
been abusive and controlling  was in July 2018. That came up because  she was unable to 
make a payment.  Lloyds  gave her a payment  holiday, and she first complained  about  the 
loan in December.
It is not in dispute  that Miss C did not tell Lloyds earlier. In her own words, she told the 
investigator (in an email  on 5 September 2019) When it comes to personal arguments, who 
would mention it in a bank meeting? The things she has told us about her ex-boyfriend 
amount to a great deal more than personal arguments, but she didnt tell Lloyds, and 
Lloyds had no reason to ask if anything was wrong.
Miss Cs boyfriend was present in the branch meeting when she signed the loan agreement. 
I completely understand why she would not want to say anything about him in front of him. 
But she could have  called the bank beforehand   the loan was not a surprise,  but had been  
discussed in advance, and she had been test-driving cars. And she did not call the bank 
after the meeting,  or tell the bank what had happened after she split up with him, or for three 
years after that. The meeting  was not her only opportunity to say anything.
For the above reasons, I do not think that Lloyds has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406971