K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that the hire purchase  agreement (HPA) he entered into with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was mis-sold. He complains he wasnt  given full 
information about the costs of early settlement.
Background
Mr S entered into a HPA with VWFS  in March 2018  to acquire a car. He says that he had 
initially intended to buy the car using cash and that he had the funds available to do this. 
However he was then told he would receive two free services if he acquired the car using a 
HPA. He says he had intended  to repay  the HPA within a few days but he was told to allow  a 
couple of payments to come out under the HPA to ensure it had all been set up correctly.
On 23 July 2018, Mr S contacted VWFS  in order to settle his agreement  but says he was 
told that he would need to pay an additional 58 days interest. He says he wasnt told about 
this cost when  he agreed  to the HPA or that he could have received the free services  and 
avoided paying  the additional interest if he had settled the HPA within the first 14 days.
Mr S says he would  have bought the car using cash had he known about the additional 
interest charge.
VWFS says that Mr S signed a HPA that was regulated  under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) and that the early settlement figures  are calculated using the rules set out in the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004. It says the settlement rules set out 
that a month plus an additional 28 days interest  will be added to the remaining capital.
VWFS also says that Mr S signed  the adequate  explanations document  confirming that he 
understood the HPA and the pre-contractual  explanations  checklist  which asks consumer to 
confirm they have understood a number  of aspects of the agreement including the right to 
withdraw and early repayments.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He was satisfied that Mr S had intended  to buy the 
car with cash but then agreed to the HPA in order to receive  the two free services. He 
thought it would have been  appropriate  for Mr S to have been told about  how much  interest  
he would  need  to pay after the cancellation  period. He thought on balance  that Mr S would 
have wanted to repay the HPA quickly in order  to minimise the interest paid and that it was 
likely he was discouraged from doing  this immediately.
Our adjudicator said that Mr S had accepted  he should pay the interest included  in the four 
monthly payments  he had made  and so he thought  it reasonable that VWFS retain  this. 
However he thought  the 58 days interest  charged  was the result of misinformation and so 
Mr S shouldnt be responsible for this.
VWFS didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It said that the view went against decisions made 
in similar  cases. It said the additional interest  that Mr S was complaining  about wasnt  a 
charge or fee but the amount set out in the regulations  and that this didnt need  to be 
disclosed at the point of sale. Given this it didnt  accept  that the dealer provided any 
incorrect information to Mr S.
VWFS said there are many reasons  why Mr S may have chosen to acquire the car using a 
HPA rather than his own funds and noted  that he waited six months before settling  the HPA.
Ref: DRN47821352My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
it was reasonable  that when Mr S went to discuss the acquisition of a car he was 
given the option  of acquiring it under a finance agreement;
Mr S was told if he acquired the car through the finance agreement he would receive  
two free services and based on what I saw these  were  made available  to him;
Mr S HPA was regulated under the CCA. The relevant rules for calculating  the early  
settlement amounts  including  any rebate are set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. These  state  that the settlement date is set at 28 days  
after the notice  is received. The rules  also allow for the deferment of this date by a 
further month (or 30 days)  when  the agreement is for a duration of more  than a year. 
Mr S HPA had a term longer than a year and it referred to the Regulations (under  
10.3.2). So I didnt find that VWFS did anything wrong by applying the additional  58 
days worth  of interest when Mr S asked to settle  his HPA;
the documents did not set out all the details of the regulations that they were  
governed by and I didnt  find this unreasonable. Information about  early repayment 
was included in the HPA and the pre-contractual explanations checklist  asked Mr S 
to confirm he had received  an explanation  of the interest charged if he wished to 
settle early and this box was ticked and the document signed. I thought that had Mr S 
had any questions regarding this he could have raised them  at the time;
the early settlement rules are part of the regulations VWFS are required to abide by 
and Mr S was made aware that his HPA was regulated under the CCA. Based on this 
I didnt find I could  say that the HPA was misrepresented to Mr S;
Mr S said that had he withdrawn within the first 14 days  he wouldnt have been 
charged the extra interest but said he was told to make  a couple of payments. I 
couldnt say what  Mr S was told and noted that the dealer  disputed that Mr S would 
have been told to wait for a period of time. On balance, I didnt find I had enough  
evidence to say that Mr S was misled in regard  to his options  about early settlement.
Mr S waited around four months before requesting  the settlement amount and then settled 
the HPA a couple of months later. I understood that Mr S didnt settle  when he realised the 
additional interest that needed to be paid as he wanted to raise  a complaint. Mr S was 
refunded two months of payments to reflect this delay which I found reasonable.
Overall, while  I accepted that Mr S had the funds available to him to pay for the car in cash  
he chose to enter into the HPA due to the additional benefits that were offered. As these 
were provided and the early settlement was carried out in line with the regulations, I didnt 
find that I could  say VWFS did anything  wrong.
No new information  was provided in response  to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN47821353My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decision is based on the individual 
circumstances of the complaint and while I take relevant rules  and regulations  into account, 
my decision  is based  on what I consider fair and reasonable.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I find it reasonable  that all the finance options  were 
provided to Mr S when  he went to acquire  a car. He was told he would receive certain  
benefits if he acquired the car through a finance agreement and based  on the evidence 
provided it appears that these were made available to him. I understand his upset at having 
to pay what he considered additional  interest when he settled the HPA early.  However  as the 
settlement amount was applied in line with the regulations and the information about  early 
settlement was provided to Mr S at the point of acquisition,  I do not find that I have enough 
evidence to say Mr S was misled  or that the HPA was misrepresented  to him.
Because of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4782135