K821x#15complaint
Mr K took out a motor insurance policy  though a broker, J & M Insurance Services  (UK) 
Limited (J&M).  He complains that J&M kept back 25% of his premium when he decided to 
cancel the policy shortly after taking it out. 
Mr Ks complaint was brought  to us by his wife, Mrs A, but for ease Ill refer to her comments  
as Mr Ks.
background
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint  last month.  An extract follows:
In December 2017 Mr K took out a commercial motor insurance policy  through J&M. Shortly 
after the policy was taken out J&M told Mr K that because he had different documentation to 
what it required he had to pay an additional £1,000  towards  his premium. Mr K then decided 
to cancel the policy but he says J&M held 25% of his premium  back. He wasnt happy  with 
this as he was only on cover for a few days.
Mr K complained to J&M and asked for a full refund. Mr K didnt receive a response  and 
complained to us. While we were  looking  at the complaint  J&M said it had already written to 
Mr K and, as a gesture of goodwill, offered him a pro-rata premium  refund which  would 
mean Mr K would receive an additional  £525.56 back. Mr K said he never  received  J&Ms 
letter but wanted to accept the offer. Before he got a chance to do so, J&M told us that the 
offer was made  on behalf of the insurer who had since gone into liquidation. So it said it 
wasnt able to pay Mr K the compensation. 
Our investigator initially thought the offer wasnt made on the insurers  behalf and that J&M 
should pay it along with 8% interest  from the date he received his original refund. J&M didnt 
agree and asked  for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Our investigator  
reviewed the complaint  again and said the policy had been mis-sold because had Mr K 
known that the policy  had short term cancelation rates (i.e. a higher premium  charges if the 
policy was cancelled at the start of the policy) he wouldnt have  taken it out. She added that 
J&M should pay Mr K £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused 
him. 
J&M told us that Mr K had issued  court proceedings against it. It agreed to pay him the 
compensation awarded by our investigator if Mr K withdrew the court proceedings he had 
issued against  it. Mr K has since said that the proceedings have been struck out. But J&M 
told us its no longer prepared to pay the compensation. It said Mr K should apply to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  instead, who will compensate  him on 
behalf of the insurer. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im considering 
upholding this complaint. 
I understand that Mr K had issued court proceedings against J&M while we were looking at 
the complaint.  As Mr K has been  told by our investigator we may dismiss a complaint without 
considering its merits if its subject  matter is the subject of current court proceedings, unless 
Ref: DRN49589332proceedings are stayed  so that the matter may be considered by us. He has recently 
provided evidence  to show that the court proceedings have  been  struck out so I think we can 
now consider the complaints merits. But if that is no longer the case I would urge either 
party to let us know without delay.
J&M says it issued its final response to Mr Ks complaint on 22 February 2018 and offered 
him a pro-rata refund of his premium. Mr K said he didnt receive this letter and I have no 
reason to doubt that. I think its unlikely Mr K wouldve continued  to pursue a complaint 
through us if hed received this letter. Especially as he accepted the offer as soon as we 
made him aware of it a few months  later. Having said that, Ive seen a copy  of the final 
response letter and it is addressed to the correct  address so even though Mr K may not have 
received it, on balance, I think J&M did enough to make sure he received it. 
The letter was sent to us by J&M along  with its file on 8 May 2018.  We had originally  written  
to J&M asking for its file in March 2018. J&M didnt  explain why it took so long to provide  its 
file but in any event we only became aware  of the offer on 8 May 2018.  This, as far as I am 
aware, is also the day the insurer  went  into liquidation. J&M didnt  mention  this to us or to 
Mr K at the time. 
As I said above, Mr K was still happy  to accept this offer, even  though he didnt  receive the 
letter when it was sent to him. Our investigators  first view was issued in June 2018 
essentially agreeing  to J&Ms offer. In August 2018 J&M said it was no longer able to pay the 
compensation. It said the offer was made  on the insurers behalf and as the insurer had 
gone into liquidation it was no longer able to pay it. 
After the investigators  second view, J&M agreed to pay the £525.56 plus interest as 
awarded by our investigator in addition to £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience 
but only if Mr K withdrew his court claim.  Mr K provided us with a copy of a letter from the 
court which says the court claim was struck  out in November 2018.  J&M has now said it 
wont pay the offer despite previously saying it would. 
J&M says the offer was made on behalf  of the insurer who has since gone into liquidation. I 
appreciate that the premium wouldve been  paid to the insurer so any refund would also 
come from the insurer. I dont think J&M made that necessarily clear  in its final response.  It 
simply said it was made as a gesture of goodwill.
But even if I were to accept that the offer was made on the insurers  behalf; because  it was 
the party that had collected the premium; I dont think  this means that J&M doesnt  owe Mr K 
any compensation for the way it handled  his complaint. 
Even though, J&M says it made the offer in February 2018 it never made  us aware  of it until 
the day the insurer went into liquidation.  On balance, I think  J&M wouldve known that the 
insurer had gone  into liquidation that day because it wouldve had to stop selling its policies 
to its clients. But it didnt  mention this to us. We had written to J&M months before the 8 May 
2018 so it wouldve been aware,  well before that day, what  the complaint was about and 
about the fact that Mr K wanted the remaining 25% of his premium  back.  I think it shouldve 
been obvious to J&M, when it sent us its file, that we didnt know an offer had been made 
and also that for some  reason  Mr K hadnt received it. By the time J&M made us and Mr K 
aware of the offer, it was too late for Mr K to accept  it especially if, as J&M says, the offer 
was made  on behalf of the insurer. 
Ref: DRN49589333But even after J&M told us that the insurer had gone out of business it still agreed  to pay the 
compensation awarded by our investigator. It said this was on the basis that Mr K withdrew 
his court  claim.  Mr K has shown that the claim was struck out but J&M has again  changed  its 
mind and refused  to pay the award  it had previously agreed to make. 
For the reasons  above I think J&Ms handling  of the claim  and the complaint has been poor. 
It has caused unnecessary delays and needlessly raised Mr Ks expectations of a resolution 
on two occasions,  only to later change its mind.  I appreciate Mr K has been quite distressed 
by this experience  and for these reasons I think J&M should pay him £650 in compensation 
for the significant  distress and inconvenience  it caused him. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, Im considering upholding Mr Ks complaint against  J & M Insurance  
Services (UK) Limited and requiring it to pay Mr K £650 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
developments and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
change any of the findings  I made in my provisional  decision. 
Mr K has accepted my provisional decision.  J&M asked for a breakdown  of my award. It also 
said it no longer has any money from the insurer. It said the FSCS  and the insurers 
administrator are dealing  with claims for refund of unused premiums  so the claim should go 
to them.  
J&M told us previously that any compensation would, in essence, have to come from the 
insurer and that this isnt possible because of its liquidation.  However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, it had agreed  to refund Mr Ks premium even after it knew about the 
insurer going into liquidation. And it later withdrew those offers.  So Im not able to accept this 
argument as a reason why it shouldnt pay any compensation to Mr K. 
The award I made was for compensation for J&Ms poor service  to Mr K. It isnt in order  to 
refund his premium.  So it isnt based on a calculation and therefore not something I can 
break down  for J&M. I gave the reasons why I made this award in my provisional decision 
and I dont think I need to repeat those here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint against J & M Insurance  Services  
(UK) Limited and requiring it to pay Mr K £650  for the distress  and inconvenience it caused 
him. It must  pay this within 28 days from the date we tell it Mr K has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49589334*If J & M Insurance Services  (UK) Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4958933