K820x#14complaint
Ms H says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  has breached its obligations  to her as 
a bank. She says it shouldnt have given her an increased loan in 2016 and ignored her 
request for help when she was suffering financial hardship. She says her relationship  
manager didnt  help her as shed  asked and was also responsible for advising her to taking 
out further loans which  have adversely affected her credit file. 
background
In October  2016 Ms H took out a new loan with NatWest to repay an existing loan and some  
other outstanding debts.  She was hoping  to repay  this loan early using a bonus she was 
expecting from her employer. She continued with the loan payments until December 2017 
when the account started  to fall into arrears.  Ms H said shed been  in dispute with a former 
employer and that she was owed a substantial amount of money  which caused her financial 
difficulties.
Ms H says that she first approached NatWest  for help in September 2017 as she suspected  
she might  have a problem making  her loan payments. But she says NatWest  didnt help her 
and failed to take into account  the financial and mental health issues  she was experiencing 
at the time. 
By November 2017 Ms H had complained about the service and support she said shed had 
over the previous 18 to 24 months. She said when she left her employer  following  the 
dispute she made her relationship manager  at NatWest aware of that fact and he said her 
account would be monitored by a different  team  who would help her, but she said she never 
heard anything. 
She also said that shed  been encouraged  to take out further  loans with payday lenders to 
be able to make her NatWest loan payments.  She believed this had caused her a great deal 
of distress and inconvenience  and thought  her credit rating had been adversely affected  
during this time. Ms H also said that at this time the relationship  manager  made  
inappropriate personal telephone calls to her  outside of working hours.
NatWests recovery team contacted Ms H in February 2018 to discuss  the available options  
for repaying  the loan. As a result, the arrears  were paid off and the loan was paid up to date.
Ms H has continued her discussions with NatWest  over the loan payments and also about 
charges that have  been applied to her credit card.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and thought  it shouldnt  be upheld. She 
didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly  in giving Ms H the loan in 2016  and she didnt think  it 
should refund any charges that had been applied  to the account.  She also didnt think  there 
was any evidence to show that NatWest had told Ms H to take out further credit to help make 
her loan payments.  
Our adjudicator also explained that this service was unable to look into the matter  of the 
inappropriate calls from her NatWest relationship manager outside of working hours, as that 
issue was better suited to another  resolution  service.  
Ref: DRN46112192Ms H accepted that we couldnt look into the inappropriate telephone calls but didnt  agree  
with our adjudicators  assessment on the remaining complaint grounds. She said the matter  
hadnt been investigated fully and said shed taken legal advice and still believed NatWest 
had acted unlawfully  by initially  increasing her loan and advising her to take further  
alternative credit in order to repay it.  
As a resolution couldnt be found the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
Ms H has since  referred to recent conflicting correspondence shes received from NatWest 
about the outstanding  balance on her loan. I cant look at that issue in this decision, as the 
complaint hasnt yet been addressed by NatWest. Ms H should raise that matter as a new 
complaint with NatWest  if she isnt satisfied with its current response.  
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision is about Ms Hs complaint about the way NatWest 
treated her during the time she says she was experiencing financial difficulties and whether 
she should have  been given an increased  loan in 2017. I wont be looking into the matter  of 
the personal calls Ms H says were  made  to her, as shes accepted that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has made a number  of detailed points  which I can assure her Ive carefully  
considered  including the conflicting  correspondence mentioned  above.  But I hope the fact 
that I do not respond in a similar  detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching  a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality.  In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but rather to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
When Ms H applied for an increased  loan in 2016 she provided NatWest with information 
about her income  and outgoings. Ive seen  copies of the loan application that was made, and 
based on the information available to NatWest Im satisfied  that it carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to make sure that the loan was affordable. Theres no evidence that Ms 
H made NatWest aware of any health issues at that time, nor is there any evidence  within  
the information it had gathered that might have given it reason to consider that Ms Hs health  
was an issue. So I dont  think  NatWest  acted incorrectly by giving Ms H another  loan in 
2016.
Ms H also says that NatWest didnt  provide  her with any support or help when she suffered 
financial difficulties in 2017. And Ive seen how Ms H made her relationship manager aware  
of the dispute  with her employer in September 2017, and that she said she might  have  
problems paying  her loan in the future. The relationship manager did confirm  at this time that 
he would  record Ms Hs concerns and that any problems would lead to another team 
contacting her to help.  
I think Ms H did the right thing in making NatWest  aware of a change in circumstances in 
2017, but I dont  think  she made it aware  of any specific financial difficulties and there  were  
no missed payments on her account at that time.  Indeed, she received  a large payment into 
her account  shortly before she wrote her complaint letter in November 2017, and I note she 
Ref: DRN46112193received the proceeds of another loan from a different provider that same day. So I dont 
think NatWest had any reason to conclude Ms H had financial difficulties at this point and I 
dont think it did anything  wrong during this period. 
What I would have  expected from NatWest  during this time was for it to treat Ms Hs situation 
positively and sympathetically. And I think it did that because the relationship  manager did 
record Ms Hs possible  future change in circumstances; he did try to make her aware  when 
loan payments were  due so as to ensure her credit file wasnt  impacted; and he did pass her 
details to the recoveries team when it was clear the loan account was in arrears. And Ive 
heard how the recoveries  team contacted Ms H in early 2018 to try to resolve  the unpaid  
payment issues. 
Overall, I cant see that NatWest was made aware of any specific financial difficulty or 
mental health issue that it didnt address positively and sympathetically at the appropriate 
time. 
I note Ms H said that her relationship manager pressurised her into taking out payday loans 
elsewhere to meet  her NatWest loan repayments. But Ive also seen how  in her complaint 
letter of November 2017 Ms H said he hadnt  contacted her since  she made  him aware of 
her changing  circumstances. The first payday  loan was paid into her account the same day 
that she wrote that complaint letter. So, I dont think I can safely say  based on that 
evidence - that he did advise her to take out a loan to meet  her NatWest repayments. 
I can see that the relationship manager  did mis-spell Ms Hs email address when responding 
to her first request to make a complaint. The delay until he contacted Ms H again about her 
payments was around 2-3 weeks. So I have considered whether that error  caused any 
financial loss to Ms H. But I dont think it did, and I dont think  the delay was significant  
enough to have caused Ms H sufficient material inconvenience to warrant  any compensatory  
payment.
Ultimately here, I dont think NatWest disregarded  Ms Hs health  issues or financial 
difficulties because I dont  think it was aware of them at the times Ms H says it should have 
been. I think when  NatWest was aware that there were problems with Ms Hs loan payments 
then it did act positively.  So I cant say NatWest has acted unfairly here.
Ms H has recently suggested she might  stop her loan payments because she thinks the loan 
was made  to her unlawfully. I would  urge Ms H to contact NatWest  before she considers that 
action to understand the serious  impact this might  have  on her credit  file, and remind her 
that shes legally contracted  to make those  payments, even if she is in a dispute  with 
NatWest
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint against  National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46112194
Ref: DRN4611219