K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that the rate NRAM Limited  (previously  Northern Rock) is charging 
on their mortgage is too high, compared to the Bank  of England Base  Rate.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out an interest only mortgage  with NRAM in 2007.  The borrowing had a 
term of just over 25 years.
The mortgage had an introductory rate where for the first two years,  it was on a tracker rate 
which tracked the Bank of England Base  Rate, plus 0.79%.This meant that Mr and Mrs Js 
interest rate was 6.54%  and was subject to change during those two years if the Bank of 
England Base Rate changed. Once  the two year tracker period ended, the mortgage was 
due to revert onto Northern Rocks Standard Variable Rate (SVR). When  the mortgage was 
taken out in 2007, Northern Rocks  SVR was 5.75%.
In 2008, Northern Rock was nationalised  and Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  was taken over by 
NRAM. The terms and conditions of the mortgage remained the same.
In 2009, once the tracker period had ended, Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  reverted to NRAMs 
SVR which  at the time was 4.79%. The mortgage  offer stated that Mr and Mrs J would be on 
this SVR for four years and eight months.  The offer also explained that after that period 
ended, Mr and Mrs J would be entitled  to a loyalty discount rate which  would be the SVR 
minus 0.25%.
In June 2014, Mr and Mrs Js interest  rate decreased  to 4.54% (SVR minus 0.25%  loyalty  
discount) and in September 2016, their interest rate decreased again  to 4.29%. In December 
2017 their interest  rate increased to 4.54% and it increased again to 4.79% in September  
2018  and has been the same rate since then.
Mr and Mrs J complained  as they felt it was unfair  that their rate is much higher than the 
Bank of England  Base  Rate and that NRAM have been overcharging  them. They would  like 
NRAM to reduce the rate on their mortgage and refund any interest which has been unfairly 
overcharged.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint so Mr and Mrs J have asked  for 
an ombudsman to review  it. So the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs J, I wont  be upholding their complaint. Id like to explain why.
Id firstly  like to reassure Mr and Mrs J that I have taken into account legislation, regulation 
and good industry  practice in reaching my decision.  
Ref: DRN43674672Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  offer from when they originally  took out the 
mortgage. The offer explains  that they would be on a tracker  product for the first couple  of 
years and then after that time, the mortgage  would revert to the SVR. The tracker product 
within those first two years would have  tracked  the Bank of England Base  rate, but once the 
rate moved to the SVR,  it wouldnt. 
I can see that NRAM previously explained  to Mr and Mrs J that the SVR applied to their 
mortgage doesnt track the Bank of England Base  Rate. And having  reviewed the mortgage 
offer and the information provided,  I havent seen anything which would make me think  
otherwise.
Generally, a SVR is a follow  on rate from when  a consumers initial  rate  which can be 
either a fixed or a tracker rate for example   has expired. Once a mortgage  account is on a 
SVR, its up to the lender to decide  when they change that rate as there are varying factors 
they need to take into consideration.
Ive reviewed the mortgage terms and conditions and I havent  seen anything which  
suggests that NRAM are contractually obliged to change their SVR when the Bank of 
England Base Rate changes. Lenders  can take into account what  happens when the Bank  
of England Base Rate changes, but they dont  have to apply changes  to their SVR as a 
result of this.
I do know that on the two occasions where  the SVR did increase in December 2017  and 
September 2018, these changes were around  the same time and for around the same 
amount as the Bank of England Base Rate also increasing in the months before. The terms 
do say that NRAM can increase  or decrease  the SVR following changes to base  rate, so I 
dont think these changes  were unfair.
The Bank of England Base Rate since Mr and Mrs J have been on NRAMs SVR, has been 
between 0.25% - 0.75%.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that their SVR was 
much higher  than this. But as Ive already explained, NRAM didnt have to change their SVR 
to reflect  what was happening with the Bank  of England Base Rate.
Mr and Mrs J have also since said that they were trapped with NRAM because  NRAM were 
not able to offer them any new rates  which meant  they had to remain  on the SVR. 
NRAM is a government-owned lender. This means that they are prevented  from offering new 
interest rate products  by the terms of its government  bailout because  of legal restrictions on 
government bodies  competing against the market. 
In other  words, NRAM are not able to offer new interest  rate products because  of restrictions  
on its regulatory permissions. And since NRAM became nationalised, they are also restricted 
when setting their SVR. Its also worth noting  that while NRAMs SVR is higher than other 
lenders fixed and variable  rate, it is comparable with other lenders SVRs.
NRAM is a closed book  lender which  means  they are not taking on new business. But they 
are still regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and they have to follow  their rules.
NRAM still need to make sure they treat their consumers fairly. Because  NRAM were  not 
able to offer any new interest rates to Mr and Mrs J, they needed to ensure  Mr and Mrs J 
were treated  fairly  by not putting barriers in their way if they wanted to move their mortgage  
elsewhere. NRAM is not treating Mr and Mrs J any differently to any of its other customers   
who are also on the SVR once their initial deals expire.
Ref: DRN43674673I believe that Mr and Mrs J think that this complaint should be upheld  because of the April 
2017 press  article which mentions mortgage prisoners. But each case we look at is different 
and decided on its own merits   and I dont think that NRAM have been unreasonable here.
If Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with the SVR,  they could, if they wanted to, have changed  
lender. Because they were on a SVR, they wouldnt have  had to pay any early repayment 
charges on their mortgage if they wanted to redeem it. NRAM has also made arrangement 
for Mr and Mrs J to speak to mortgage advisers, free of charge, to see if any other lenders 
would be able to offer Mr and Mrs J new interest  rates. So Im satisfied there were no 
contractual barriers  preventing Mr and Mrs J from redeeming their mortgage  early if they 
wanted to look for another interest  rate elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs J have said that due to their personal circumstances, it would have been very 
difficult to obtain  a mortgage elsewhere. While I appreciate this would have been difficult for 
them, changes which arent part of the mortgage contract, arent within  NRAMs control and 
couldnt have  been foreseen by any party when  they took the mortgage  out. And I dont think  
NRAMs decisions are related to Mr and Mrs Js ages either. So it wouldnt be fair or 
responsible to hold NRAM  liable for that.
While I empathise  with the situation  that Mr and Mrs J are in, I dont think that NRAM have 
treated them  unfairly.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4367467