K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) refused a claim on their legal 
expenses insurance  policy. They say the policy terms  are unfair.  
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their policy to cover the legal  costs  of a dispute over Mrs Ws 
late mothers Will. Mrs Ws sisters are executors of the estate.  Shes concerned that theyre 
keeping items that the Will says should  be sold at auction, with the funds divided equally 
between Mrs W and her siblings.
UKI declined  the claim. It said that whilst the policy covers  inheritance disputes, it specifically 
excludes disputes with executors or beneficiaries  over the management or administration  of 
the estate.
Mr and Mrs W feel that the policy  exclusions are unfair and render the inheritance  cover  
worthless. They say that every dispute over a Will is likely  to be against  the executors or 
other beneficiaries. So theyve  brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said UKI had declined the claim in 
accordance with the policy  terms and conditions. So she didnt  think  UKI had done anything  
wrong. As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the policy  terms and 
conditions. 
I can see that the policy provides cover for a dispute over something  left to [you] in a Will. 
But not disputes  with executors about the management of the estate  or disputes between 
[you] and another beneficiary  regarding  the administration or disposal of any item left to you 
in a Will. 
Mr and Mrs Ws claim relates to a dispute  with the executors and beneficiaries of the estate 
about how they are administering  items and managing the estate. So it is specifically 
excluded under the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs W say the policy term is unfair. Its for an insurer  to decide what  types of claims  
they want to cover  and what  they dont. I wouldnt normally look to comment on what  a 
policy covers, as long as Im satisfied the terms and conditions have been  set out clearly. In 
this case, I think they have. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ws comments  that the policy exclusions mean that no 
inheritance disputes would  be covered. But I dont think  thats the case. Many  inheritance  
cases arise from a third party challenging the Will which the policy  allows for. I appreciate its 
disappointing for them that their claim isnt covered, but no insurance policy will cover  every 
eventuality. In this case, the terms clearly  set out what types of inheritance  claims are 
covered and I think its fair for UKI to rely on those terms.
Ref: DRN45580192my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019. 
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4558019