K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that the used  car she acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with Billing  
Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory quality. 
background 
In July 2017 Miss W acquired  a used car via a hire purchase agreement  with Billing Finance 
Ltd. The car had a mileage of 118,000  and was around nine years old. It had also been  
modified as the suspension had been lowered. 
Miss W says she became aware on the day she collected the car that the car was too low to 
go over speed humps and so she arranged for the car to have a new suspension fitted. 
Following this repair Miss W had to replace the flexi hose  as she had inadvertently damaged 
this due to the car being low. 
Miss W says the car smokes upon  starting so she had the CVV valve  repaired in August 
2017. The car continued to smoke and Miss W had it serviced  in September 2017. 
Unfortunately the car broke down in November 2017  and this was revealed  to be due to a 
problem with the DPF filter. The dealership  paid £240  towards  the costs of the repairs. 
In December 2017 the car began making  noises and on inspection it was found that the fly 
wheel was warped and a new clutch was required.  Miss W was then told that the fly wheel 
had also damaged the gearbox which would need  to be replaced. The repairs  were all 
undertaken. 
In July 2018 the car began to make a noise. Miss W took the car to specialist who advised 
the timing chains were  about to snap. Miss W says the ticking  noise the car had made  since 
shed acquired  it was an indication this needed  replacing as they erode over time.  
Miss W contacted Billing Finance Ltd. Billing  Finance  Ltd asked Miss W to obtain a report 
that would  show  that the faults  wouldve been  present at the point of sale.  Miss W requested 
that the garage who had carried out most of the work on the car write a report. Billing  
Finance Ltd told Miss W it wasnt able to accept this report  as it wasnt on headed  note 
paper and the qualifications of the author couldnt be verified. 
Billing Finance  Ltd said that Miss W could use an independent engineer  from a company it 
had a contract with to inspect the car. But Miss W said she was concerned  the company 
wasnt truly independent and she suggested  using another company instead. Billing Finance 
disagreed but said Miss W could  pay for a report  from the other company and that it would 
reimburse her if a fault was shown to have  been present at the point of sale.
Miss W says when  she spoke with her preferred independent company she was informed  it 
couldnt advise  as to how long faults had been present. She says she was told the same  
thing by another independent company who inspected cars.  Miss W said that Billing Finance 
should either cover the costs of the repairs the car now required,  replace the car or allow  her 
to reject the car, reimburse  her payments, deposit and the costs of the repairs  shed  had 
carried out to date.
Billing Finance  Ltd said they disagreed that an independent inspection  of the car wouldnt be 
able to provide  an expert opinion as to whether  the faults with the car had been  present at 
Ref: DRN42649132the point of sale. The use of such reports was standard industry  practice. It said it was 
prepared to provide  a £500 payment as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss W was unhappy at Billing  Finance  Ltd.s  offer and complained to this service.   During  
the time Miss Ws complaint has been with us further repairs have been recommended for 
the car. These are to the glow plugs and control unit and also to the manifold and the EGR 
filter which needs replacing.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. She said that 
from the information shed seen she couldnt  say the faults  with the car had been present at 
the point of sale. The investigator  said that when considering the quality of the car she had 
to take account  of the age and mileage of the car and it was reasonable to expect things 
would need repair the older a car was and the more miles it had been driven. The items  
raised by Miss W as needing  repair were serviceable ones, as they arise  through  wear  and 
tear.
The investigator said that she thought Billing Finance hadnt acted unfairly in rejecting the 
report Miss W had provided from the garage and she didnt think  its request for an 
independent inspection was unreasonable. The investigator said she appreciated Miss W 
had been advised an inspection wouldnt be able to ascertain the age of faults but there  
wasnt enough evidence  to say these faults had been present at the point of sale.  And 
without that evidence it would be unfair and unreasonable  to hold Billings Finance Ltd 
responsible for the costs of the repairs or to allow Miss W to reject  the car. 
Miss W disagreed with our investigators view. She said there  was evidence the car hadnt 
been of satisfactory  quality at the point  of sale. Miss W said the car wasnt currently drivable.
As the parties are unable  to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 goods  supplied to a consumer must  be of 
"satisfactory  quality",  "fit for purpose" and "as described". For a used  car "satisfactory  
quality" takes into account the age, condition and mileage.  I'd seen the car supplied to Miss 
W was, at the time of the sale, around nine years old and had a mileage of 118,000. So I 
think most people would be expecting some repairs would arise due to wear  and tear.
The car had lowered suspension  which Miss W found  made the car impractical to drive as it 
couldnt go over speed  bumps. However, I think Miss W must have been aware of the 
modification when  she bought the car so any expenses incurred for altering this wouldnt be 
the responsibility of Billing Finance Ltd. So the issue for me to decide  is whether the later 
items that have needed repair arose  from wear  and tear, or were faulty at the point of sale 
meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality or fit for purpose. 
Ive seen that the car broke down in November 2017 due to the DPF filter and that around 
half the costs of these  repairs  were  paid for by the dealership. I havent  seen any evidence  
or complaint that this repair wasnt satisfactory.
The car then required  further repairs the following month to the clutch and flywheel. However 
these parts are items that become worn  over time and require replacement.  Looking at the 
Ref: DRN42649133age and mileage  of the car Im not surprised these issues arose  over the months  Miss W 
had the car and I dont think I can reasonably say such repairs made  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  or unfit for purpose. 
Miss W was then able to use the car until July 2018  when the issue with the timing chains 
came to light. Ive seen from the mileage recorded  for the car in September  2018  that     
Miss W was able to use the car and averaged around 1000 miles per month.  This is 
considered to be average use of a car. 
When six months or more  has passed  since the inception of a finance agreement  and a fault 
comes to light then the Act says that the onus  rests  with the consumer to show  that it was 
present or developing at the point  of sale.
Miss W provided  Billings Finance Ltd with a report from a garage shed used to repair the car 
as she said it was acquainted with the history of the car. Billings  Finance didnt accept this 
report due to it not being on headed paper and it couldnt verify the engineers qualifications. 
I appreciate Miss W feels the report was sufficient but in the circumstances I dont think  
Billing Finance  was being unfair in not accepting  it. Its reasonable to require a report  thats 
being relied on to show  the full details of the author and establishes  their expertise. Its also 
important that the independence  of the inspection is established. So for the same  reasons as 
given by Billings Finance Ltd Im not using this report as evidence  of the cars condition.
Finance Billings  asked  Miss W to obtain a report from a company that specialises in 
providing independent opinions on the condition of cars. Miss W was unhappy about the 
company Billings  Finance Ltd suggested  as they have a contract  with Billings Finance Ltd 
and she felt they couldnt be truly independent. But the company  doesnt  have any financial 
interest in the reports it provides and Im not surprised that a credit provider would have such  
a contract in existence.  I cant say this company wouldnt have provided an independent  
opinion.
Miss W also says that having  spoken  with other companies who also provide independent 
reports on car quality shed been  told an opinion  as to the age of a fault wasnt  possible. She 
has provided emails that confirm the advice she was given. This was due to the amount of 
time that had elapsed  since  Miss W had acquired  the car and the other repairs that had been 
undertaken.
But I dont think Billings Finance  Ltd.s  request to Miss W to get an independent report was 
unfair. Its usual practice to have the car inspected independently for an opinion  in these 
circumstances and I think its possible an opinion couldve been  provided. So I dont think its 
reasonable for me to say that due to the suggested  difficulties in providing an answer  as to 
the age of the faults that the need for evidence can be waived.
I appreciate that this car has had faults and required a number of repairs.  Ive seen that 
further faults have  come  to light since Miss W made her complaint to this service.  But the 
fact the car has had, and still requires, repairs doesnt necessarily mean the Billings  Finance 
Ltd is responsible  for the costs of them. A car, especially an older car, will require repairs 
due to wear and tear. Ive seen via the increase in the cars mileage that Miss W has still 
been able to drive  the car.
I dont think I have  enough evidence to say that the faults with the car were present at the 
point of sale, or to find the car wasnt  fit for purpose. So Im not upholding Miss Ws 
Ref: DRN42649134complaint. Billings  Finance has offered £500  as a goodwill gesture and Im not going to ask it 
to do more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4264913