K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr V says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr V didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this now,  many years  
later. I say this because  Ive been  given  a copy of the application form Mr V 
completed at the time. I can see that PPI had to be selected and in this case PPI was 
selected (by a tick in a box). And Mr V signed for the cover which was separate  to his 
signature for the card. So it seems most likely  to me that Mr V chose to take the 
cover and did so knowing he had a choice.
 
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr V, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right for him, although based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. But BoS did have to provide Mr V with information sufficient for Mr V 
to make an informed choice about  whether  the PPI was right for him. Its possible  the 
information wasnt as good as it couldve been. But I think  that better information 
would not have put Mr V off taking out the policy. I say that because  he was eligible 
for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover.  I say this as Mr V told us he 
only had sick pay that he could rely on for up to six months, and that he had no other 
means he could have relied  on after that. So, as this policy  couldve covered 10% of 
his monthly balance for up to 12 months and as it wouldve paid in addition  to, and 
potentially for longer  than, any other  pay he may have received, I think  he couldve 
found this cover  useful.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI, if it hasnt already done  so, to Mr V 
because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr V about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN42564032If it hasnt  already done so, BoS has to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Mr V any 
extra interest Mr V paid because of that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr V the difference between 
what Mr V owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr V 8%* simple interest if Mr V 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr V can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr V any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256403