K821xAXA15complaint
Mr F complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc delayed  in handling his claim under his motor 
insurance policy and wrongly pursued  him for the premium.
background
Mr F was in an accident and his car was damaged. He didnt think that it was his fault,  but 
the other driver didnt agree and so liability was in dispute. AXA decided that Mr Fs car 
wasnt economical to repair. So they paid him his cars market value less his policy  excess. 
He complained that AXA continued to demand  that he pay his policy  premium.  He also said 
that they didnt  act on information he gave them, and were  taking too long to decide on 
liability and finalise the matter. 
The investigator recommended  that his complaint should be partly  upheld. She thought  that 
AXA were  entitled  to payment of the premium balance and that Mr F did have to pay this. 
But she thought  that AXA had been unreasonable because they hadnt told him how theyd 
keep him updated  about the claim. She recommended AXA pay him £75 in compensation for 
this and AXA agreed. 
Mr F didnt  agree and so his case has been  passed  to me to decide.  Mr F says that AXA are 
still delaying  in dealing  with the matter.  However,  as the investigator has explained to him, I 
can only look at AXAs actions up to the date when  the investigator  gave her opinion in this 
case. AXA havent agreed to us looking, in this case, at their actions after then as they didnt 
form part of the original complaint and it wouldnt be fair to assess  events that have occurred  
since. However, as the investigator has advised  him, its open to Mr F to make another 
complaint about  AXAs  later actions, to AXA, and subsequently to us, if he wishes.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA paid Mr F his cars market value,  and after that they continued  to collect his premium 
instalments by direct debit. But he didnt want to pay any more premiums. He said that his 
premium payments were  up to date when his car was written  off, and he no longer had his 
car, so he didnt need insurance. He said that hed tried to phone AXA about it but couldnt 
get through because of their long call waiting  times.  So he cancelled  his direct  debit.  AXA 
then started to pursue him for the outstanding  balance of the premium. They also instructed 
debt collectors. 
The investigator explained that when  someone  makes a claim they become liable for the 
whole year's premiums in full and this is standard industry practice. Mr Fs policy said on P4:
In return for your premium, we will provide  the cover shown in your
Policy for accident, injury, loss or damage that happens within the 
territorial limits during  the period of insurance.
Mr Fs other  documents show that Mr Fs premium  for the year,  the period of insurance, was 
about £350. That was the amount  that Mr F owed, though AXA were  willing  to accept 
payment by instalments.
Ref: DRN44704672Mr F said that he didnt know that hed have to pay the rest of the premium after he no longer 
had his car, and that AXA didnt make it clear  to him that it was a condition  of his policy,  or 
that it was standard practice  in the industry. He said they should have done that and not just 
send him contradictory  information about his policy,  or issue demands  for payment of the 
premium balance. He says that hed often tried to contact  AXA but they wouldnt speak to 
him about it and just issued more payment demands  and involved debt collectors. 
But any insurance policy requires payment  of the premium in return for insurance  cover.  This 
is normal and so its not an unusual clause and not something wed expect an insurer to 
bring to someones  attention. AXA have insured Mr F in return for his premium  of about 
£350. They  paid his claim for his car promptly and were  dealing with the other drivers claim. 
They had accepted the payment of the premium in instalments, but when  Mr F cancelled the 
direct debit for that I dont think it was unreasonable for them  to assume that he was then 
refusing to pay the full premium. And so it wasnt unreasonable  for them  to ask him for the 
remaining balance, which was by then about £190. So I dont think  that AXA have done 
anything wrong  there.
Mr F was also unhappy that AXA hadnt  acted on the accident information he sent them  and 
didnt update him about their progress.
Hed reported the accident to AXA right away and quickly sent them  a statement about it, but 
AXA asked him for information again  about  6 weeks later. He felt that theyd  delayed  and 
that this was unprofessional.  AXA have given us different  reasons for this. These include 
that they didnt  realise theyd received his information already, or they did receive it but 
needed more  information. Either way, I dont  think that this matters because  I dont  think  the 
time period concerned is an unreasonable delay in the overall context  of the claim. During 
that time AXA had already resolved Mr Fs claim for his own car and had paid him the 
market value. And they were trying to help him by making sure that they got the right 
information about the case to potentially defend him against the other drivers claim. 
Mr F also felt that they didnt keep him informed about progress as they didnt contact him for 
about a 2 month period.  AXA say thats  because liability  was disputed and there wasnt  
much progress to report. They told us that their policy  is to update  an insured about every  3 
months, though  they couldnt  guarantee that. Its true that claims where liability  is disputed 
can take longer  than average to resolve.  And I dont think  that its reasonable for an insurer 
to frequently update a consumer if theres  nothing for them to report. But I think that it would 
have been helpful in this case  if AXA had given Mr F some  sort of timescale for dealing  with 
the claim,  and told him what their policy was on updating him. If so, he might not have had to 
keep contacting them.
AXA have agreed  to pay Mr F £75 compensation for this. In the circumstances I dont think  
thats unreasonable. I can see that Mr F is very frustrated by what he sees  as AXAs  lack of 
action. But looking at the claim overall,  and considering that they promptly settled his claim 
for his own car, I think that £75 is enough to appropriately reflect the inconvenience their 
actions caused  him. And so I dont require  them to pay him any more  than that.
Ref: DRN44704673my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I partly uphold  this complaint 
and I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr F £75 in compensation for his inconvenience  
and distress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If AXA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr F how much they have taken off, and give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4470467