K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  gave him loans  that were  
unaffordable.
background
During 2013 and 2014  Mr H borrowed nine loans from Mr Lender,  as follows:
Loan Amount Date 
borrowedNo of 
instalmentsRollovers Date repaid
1 £200 8.3.13 2 2 21.5.13
2 £350 28.5.13 2 0 25.7.13
3 £350 2.8.13 1 0 23.8.13
4 £200 3.9.13 1 1 15.10.13
5 £500 13.11.13 1 0 16.11.13
6 £300 29.1.14 1 0 17.2.14
7 £300 1.3.14 1 1 4.4.14
8 £550 13.4.14 variable 1 9.6.14
9 £220 1.7.14 1 0 24.7.14
With the exception  of loan eight (which  had a variable repayment profile), these  were  payday 
loans with a short-term, single repayment. Loans  one and two were structured across two 
paydays.
Mr H believes  that Mr Lender  shouldve recognised  that its loans were unaffordable  and 
irresponsible, and that they trapped  him in a debt spiral.
Mr Lender contends that it did carry out adequate checks before lending  and was satisfied 
that each loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator felt that Mr Lenders  checks didnt go far enough in relation to loans two to 
nine inclusive. However, he considered that if it had carried  out better checks  it would still 
have found that each  of the loans was affordable, with the exception of loans  six and seven. 
He recommended that Mr Lender pay compensation to Mr H in respect of these two loans.
Mr Lender didnt agree. It feels  that a gap between  repayment of loan five and the granting 
of loan six was such that this was considered to be a new chain of lending.  As such, it 
believes it was reasonable to rely upon the checks that it did undertake.  And so its asked, 
as its perfectly entitled to do, that the complaint be assessed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr H 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing and his lending  history, but 
there was no set list of checks that Mr Lender  had to do.
Ref: DRN44592232Mr Lender has told us that before lending to Mr H it conducted an employment check to 
ensure that he was receiving regular monthly income. Mr H told it that he earned net monthly 
income of £3,200. Mr Lender also carried out credit  checks and, whilst I havent seen the 
results of these, it says that these indicated an average profile  with nothing to indicate any 
financial distress.
Mr Lender has told us that it confirmed the affordability of loans five to nine inclusive by 
asking Mr H for details of his monthly income and expenditure.  However  its not been able to 
provide us with any expenditure  details  other  than for loan nine. Similarly, its not been  able 
to substantiate  details of Mr Hs income  for loans five and seven.
loan one
Mr H declared  to Mr Lender that his net monthly  income was £3,200.  I think that the higher of 
the two loan repayments for loan one (£270) wouldve appeared relatively modest compared 
to his income, and that Mr Lender wouldve considered its repayments to be affordable.  As 
such, I think its checks were adequate, and I dont think it was wrong to provide this loan.
loans two to four
Loan one was rolled over twice before it was repaid, and loan two was provided just a few 
days after that. It was for an increased amount and was repayable by two instalments, the 
higher of which was £405.
Loan three was for the same value as loan two and was granted just a week after the prior 
loan had been repaid.  It required a higher single repayment of £455. Loan  four was for a 
reduced amount  and followed closely  after loan three was repaid.
I think that, in these circumstances, Mr Lender ought  to have also asked Mr H for details of 
his normal monthly living  costs, including any regular financial commitments. I cant see that 
it did this, and so I dont think that its checks  went  far enough.
Having concluded  that Mr Lenders  checks didnt  go far enough, I must now consider 
whether its likely that better checks may have  led it to any different lending decisions. 
Clearly, its not possible  now to be sure of exactly what Mr H wouldve declared his 
expenditure to be if hed been asked at the time. But I can review  his bank statements to 
form a view as to what this would most likely  have been.
Ive reviewed Mr Hs bank  statement from the time of loan two and can see that his normal  
monthly expenditure amounted to around £2,000. If he had declared this to Mr Lender  I think  
that, against his stated  income of £3,200, the loan repayments wouldve still appeared 
affordable and so I think that Mr Lender wouldve still made the loan.
At the time of loan three Mr Hs normal monthly expenditure appears, from his bank 
statements, to be rather lower at around  £960.  Assuming  that, if asked, hed likely have 
stated his expenditure to be of this order I think that, against income of £3,200, the proposed 
loan repayment  of £455 wouldve still appeared affordable.
A similar position appears at the time of loan four and so, here again, I think that even if it 
had undertaken  the better checks that I consider proportionate, Mr Lender  wouldve still 
considered its loan to be affordable.
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender  was wrong  to provide loans two to four inclusive.
Ref: DRN44592233loan five
There was a gap of four weeks between loan four being repaid and loan five being granted. 
However, loan four had been  rolled-over,  and this new loan was for an appreciably higher 
amount. I think that, as Mr H had been  borrowing payday loans from it almost constantly for 
over seven months by this time,  Mr Lender  ought to have been thinking  about whether he 
had become dependent upon this type of borrowing.  
Mr Lender has told us that it checked affordability  of this loan by requesting details from 
Mr H about both his monthly income  and expenditure. Whilst it hasnt been  able to show 
from its records that it asked Mr H for anything other than details of his monthly  income I 
have no reason to doubt that it did also ask for expenditure details. But, in the prevailing 
circumstances, I believe  that Mr Lender  shouldve, by this stage, gone further than this by 
seeking to independently  verify the information  that he was providing. There  are a number  of 
ways in which this could be done,  such as asking for payslips or copies of bills, or sight of his 
bank statements. I cant see that it did any of this and, as such,  I dont think  that its checks 
went far enough.
Ive reviewed Mr Hs bank  statements from around the time he applied  for loan five. I can 
see that his income  in the preceding month  was £3,096. Against this, his normal  expenditure 
was around £1,000, he had around £1,175 in regular financial commitments and £184 to pay 
to other  short term lenders. This total expenditure of £2,359 left him with disposable income 
of £737, which would  cover Mr Lenders repayment  of £575. I note that the original loan was 
only for a period of eight days, and that Mr H actually repaid it early  after only 6 days. I think  
that, had Mr Lender done the better checks that I consider  proportionate,  it would still most 
likely have considered  this loan to be affordable.
loans six and seven
There was a gap of over 10 weeks between loans  five and six. Mr Lender considers this to 
be a sufficient gap for it to regard loan six as representing a new chain of borrowing from it. 
I dont agree; I think its unlikely that there  wouldve been any meaningful  change  in Mr Hs 
underlying financial  circumstances  across this period  of time. 
I think, therefore, that Mr Lender shouldve carried out checks  similar to those I considered  
proportionate for loan five, i.e., an independent review of Mr Hs financial  situation. Ive 
reviewed his bank  statements  from the time of loans six and seven and can see that his 
income was £2,834 and £3,216 respectively  in the months ahead  of these loans.
At the time of loan six Mr Hs regular expenditure was around £1,000, he had regular 
financial commitments  in the preceding month  of £1,100 and payments due in the coming  
month to another short-term lender of £492.  This left disposable income of £242, which was 
insufficient to cover  Mr Lenders loan repayment at £390. I think  that, had Mr Lender  
conducted the better checks  that I consider to be proportionate, it wouldve seen  that this 
loan wasnt affordable. I dont think it was right to provide this loan.
Loan seven was made two weeks after loan six had been repaid. A review of his bank 
statements shows that he had total expenditure of £2,846  - comprising normal living  costs  of 
around £1,000,  regular  financial commitments of £1,337 and other short  term loan 
repayments of £509  due. This implies disposable income of £369 which would suggest that 
Mr Lenders loan repayment of £390  wasnt affordable. Accordingly I dont think  it was right 
to grant  this loan.
Ref: DRN44592234Loans eight and nine
Having reviewed the banks statements from the time of the last two loans I can see that 
Mr Hs monthly  income was £3,550 and £3,913 respectively and he had fairly consistent 
normal living  expenses of £1000. Against this, though, his regular financial commitments 
were much reduced as were his commitments  for other short term loans. The levels of 
disposable income evident to me from his bank statements leads me to the conclusion that, 
even if Mr Lender had done better checks,  it would  most likely  have  still considered its loan 
repayments to be affordable.
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender  was wrong  to provide loans eight and nine.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. To 
put things right, PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) should:
refund all interest  and charges Mr H paid on loans six and seven; 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement;
remove any adverse information about loans six and seven from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to take off 
tax from this interest. PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4459223