K820x#14complaint
D, a limited company,  complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC froze its account for five days,  
without notice, which caused inconvenience and was a potential disaster for the business. 
D is represented in this complaint by Mr A, a director. 
background
D has a business  account with Barclays. On 16 July 2018 Mr A said he completed and 
submitted forms to the bank, on behalf of D, in order to change  a name and the mandate on 
the account; one of the other directors, Mrs A, had recently married and changed her name. 
Mr A said Barclays  froze  the account  that day without  any notification. He said he was 
locked out of the account and could not pay suppliers. Mr A said it took five days  to get Ds 
online banking restarted.  He also concluded that had this occurred at month end D would 
have lost business as a result. 
Barclays said an updated mandate process  dealing with the waiver for online access  had 
been triggered when Mr and Mrs A completed the change of name and mandate forms. This 
had the effect  of cancelling the existing online waiver which impacted access to the account.  
It apologised  for not communicating  this better  and offered D £200  for the delay and 
inconvenience caused. 
On behalf of D, Mr A accepted the apology but rejected  the £200 and brought  his complaint 
to this service. He said this issue had caused him stress and had wasted his time.  He 
maintained that this couldve had a disastrous effect on the business. Our investigator  
thought Barclays  had acted reasonably in admitting its mistake and that £200 was fair under 
the circumstances. 
Mr A was not satisfied  with this and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. He said 
Ds account was frozen  for five days.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything  more. 
Barclays has accepted  it made a communication error regarding  the removal  of the online 
banking waiver, following  a change to the business account mandate.  And Mr A has 
accepted its apology on behalf of D. So its left to me to decide if £200  is fair and reasonable 
for the inconvenience  caused. 
Barclays said D had a complex signing mandate in place (more than one signatory) and 
historically it allowed  businesses with such a mandate the option of having  a waiver in place 
to enable them to complete online banking  transactions  without the need  of a second  
signatory authorising the payment. 
Barclays explained that following the introduction of dual authorisation it removed the waiver  
form option. It was decided that for those customers with the existing waiver  in place, it 
would remain until a mandate change  or amendment took place.  It said D submitted a 
change of name amendment on 6 July 2018,  to change a directors last name and to update 
Ref: DRN44293322her signature. This change was completed on 13 July 2018,  however Barclays said at this 
point due to the amendment  the online banking waiver form fell away. As a result  D lost the 
ability to make online payments. 
The bank said the account was not frozen  and payments could be completed in branch in 
line with the complex  mandate  with two signatories to authorise.
Mr A complained to the bank on 16 July that he was unable to make  payments by himself 
online. The contact notes from Barclays indicate  that Mr A was advised  of alternative ways  
to make a payment  and was sent mandate forms in order  to change from complex mandate  
to simple mandate  one signatory. The notes also state the case was to be fast tracked. Mr 
A called the bank on 19 July to chase but Barclays hadnt yet received the mandate  forms 
but suggested if it hadnt received them by the next day Mr A should go to a branch and 
have the documents scanned.
On 20 July Barclays called Mr A to confirm  receipt of the documents.  The notes state Mr A 
advised the bank he urgently needed  to make payments. Barclays said Mr A could still make 
payments at a branch with two existing signatories. Barclays also asked for further 
confirmation of signatures. The mandate change was completed on 23 July and Barclays 
said that Mr A regained  the ability to make  single authorised payments online. 
Our service operates under a set of rules, known as the DISP  rules, laid down by Parliament 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The DISP  rules say we can make  a 
money award against a business  that we deem fair compensation  for actual and prospective 
financial loss. Mr A hasnt reported  any actual financial loss to D as a result  of this situation.  
He said that had this happened at month end its possible D could have lost business.  Im 
not disputing this couldve been the case.  But Im not able to make an award based on what 
might have happened nor is it my role to punish  the business. And as the issue  has been  
resolved I dont anticipate any prospective financial loss. 
Mr A has said this situation has been stressful,  embarrassing and has wasted his time. Hes 
asked for £500,  which in his view represents a daily rate of £100 for five days  in time spent. 
He said it was he that first noticed  the problem  and that the account was frozen completely 
for internet banking.  While  I agree that Mr A was unable to make online payments the 
account was not frozen. Barclays informed Mr A on two occasions how he could make  
payments in the branch.  I do appreciate this was inconvenient but the account was still 
functioning. Unfortunately  our service doesnt  normally compensate  someone  for specific 
units of time. I can fully understand Mr As frustration,  he has a business to run and he has 
had to spend time on this administrative issue. The complaint has been  brought  by D which 
is a limited company  and a separate legal entity from Mr A and the other  directors.  So 
unfortunately I am unable to compensate Mr A personally. 
I am able to make an award for inconvenience  to the business. I see that Barclays has 
offered D £200  as compensation.  Under  the circumstances I believe this to be fair and 
reasonable and in line with what I would expect. Barclays has said the offer is still available  
to D should Mr A wish to accept it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN44293323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4429332