K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr A in 1998. The policy 
provided Mr A with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Mr A says PPI wasnt discussed  when  he took out his mortgage, and that the policy was 
added to his account without his consent. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what 
was discussed  between Mr A and HSBC when the mortgage was arranged.
HSBC hasnt provided much information from the point of sale,  as these events
occurred over 20 years ago. This isnt surprising and its similar to some  other  cases Ive
seen. 
Ive noted everything  that Mr A has said. But for me to decide that the adviser
didnt tell him the PPI was an optional policy, Id have  to be sure that this was more  likely
than not.
This is difficult  given the lack of paperwork we have. Without any additional  evidence  to
support what Mr A have  told me, it seems to me that it couldve been just as
likely that he knew the policy  was optional and chose to take it out. Im also mindful that the 
policy was free for the first six months. On balance I think its likely that this wouldve been  
mentioned to Mr A during  the mortgage application  process.
So because of the very limited information available to me, Ive not been able to safely
conclude that HSBC didnt make the optional nature of the policy clear to Mr A.
HSBC says it doesnt know if it recommended the policy  to Mr A. If the bank had given 
advice, it would have  had to make sure the policy was suitable for him. As Ive said,  the sale 
paperwork is no longer  available, so I dont have  this to look at. But I dont need to make a 
finding on this point because, even if I held HSBC to the higher standard and said it did give 
advice, I dont think the policy was unsuitable  based on what Ive seen of Mr As 
circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN45565092I say this because  Mr A wasnt disadvantaged by any of the common limitations  or 
conditions on the cover. It appears  that Mr A was in good health and in employment  when he 
applied for the policy. Also, his circumstances  meant  he was eligible for the policy.
Mr A says he would  have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident and that his family wouldve helped  cover his mortgage  repayments. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to his occupational benefits and would do so, it 
seems, for longer.  Having  the policy in place would mean Mr A could use his work-related 
benefits to pay for other expenses, and it wouldve meant he didnt have to rely on his family. 
So I think Mr A would have had some use for the policy despite his existing arrangements.
It doesnt appear that the cost of the policy was unaffordable once the free period had 
ended. The monthly premiums  were reasonable and were  similar to the cost of other 
mortgage PPI policies sold around  the same time.
It might be that HSBC could have  explained  the policy more clearly. But from what Ive seen 
of the policy  and Mr As circumstances, I dont think better information  would  have changed 
his decision to take out the cover.
I therefore wont be upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4556509