K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through a finance  agreement with Black 
Horse Limited, (Black Horse), trading as Jaguar Financial Services, was misrepresented to 
him and has not been of satisfactory  quality. 
background
Mr P took receipt of a used car in November 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  At the point of supply the car had completed 750 
miles and was first registered  in October  2018.
He complained to the dealership later that month as he said the rear camera wasnt working; 
there was an issue with the motion sensor  and the car wasnt  achieving the advertised fuel 
consumption. He wanted to reject the car.
The dealership couldnt find a problem  with the camera or motion sensor  and these 
problems no longer appear  to be bothering Mr P. But hes still unhappy about the fuel 
consumption. 
Black Horse  explained that Mr P hadnt  completed  much mileage when he complained about 
the fuel consumption  and hed need to do more  to achieve a fairer  picture  of the average  
consumption and hed also need to do more mileage on motorways.  They noted that the 
information Mr P had sent them  about  fuel consumption on this model of car was dependant 
on the type of driving and wasnt necessarily reflective of what would be achieved  on the 
road. So they didnt think they needed to take any further action.
But Mr P was still dissatisfied and he therefore  referred his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  her opinion. She reviewed  the information provided by the manufacturer  
about fuel consumption but noted  that they explained the figures were for comparison 
purposes only. Real world figures  may differ. She thought  it fair to say there were a 
number of variables  that could  affect  fuel consumption such as driving style;  wind speed and 
quality of the road surface. So she didnt think there was evidence the car had been 
misrepresented to Mr P or that Black Horse needed to take any further  action.
But Mr P disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  He 
mentioned that there were  now some  problems with the media screen on the car and that 
the car was using  too much fuel additive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN41413802board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  of 
misrepresented when supplied. If it was and if, as a result,  Im persuaded Mr P wouldnt 
have entered  into the agreement had it not been misrepresented  then Id consider Black 
Horse responsible and Id tell them to do something about it.
Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence that theres a fault with the car thats 
impacting on the fuel consumption.  It appears  that Mr P is simply disputing  the consumption 
hes been achieving  compared to that stated by the manufacturer. Hes saying this was 
misrepresented to him. 
The manufacturers consumption figures are based  on tests  that are provided for 
comparative purposes. So whilst I think it would be reasonable to compare the stated 
consumption with other models, as the figures are derived from the same  tests. I dont think  
its feasible to compare the stated  consumption figures to what is achieved  on the road. 
Thats because road, traffic, driving,  temperature and vehicle set up, vary considerably. 
So I dont  think in those  circumstances, it would be fair to ask Black  Horse to take any further  
action.
Ive noted that Mr P has explained hes now experiencing problems with the amount of fuel 
additive the car is using and with the media screen.  Hes rightly reported these to the 
dealership and they appear to be attending to the problem. If hes still dissatisfied with their 
response on these new issues  he may make  a complaint to Black  Horse but until hes done 
so, and theyve  been allowed to consider these new problems, it wouldnt be fair for this 
service to provide  a direction.
Ref: DRN41413803my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141380