K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank  UK PLC after he 
requested the transfer of his online self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) from Barclays  to a 
new broker. He wants Barclays to pay him £2,000 in respect  of lost trading profits, and 
£2,750 in respect of his time and inconvenience.
background
At the end of June 2017 Mr W instructed Barclays to transfer his online SIPP  account to a 
new broker. Following receipt  of Mr Ws instruction  Barclays removed Mr Ws online access  
to the account.
Barclays re-instated online "view only access to Mr W after he complained to it on 17 July 
2017 about the problems  he was encountering.
Mr W complained  to Barclays  about the removal  of his online access, and about the speed 
of the transfer.  And Barclays investigated Mr Ws concerns and sent a final response letter  to 
him on 22 September 2017. It said, in summary, that it was standard process  to remove  
online access when a client  transfers, to prevent miscalculations. And, although it 
appreciated that having no online access reduced  Mr Ws flexibility,  its customer  service 
team was available  to support any request he might  have had. But it agreed that there had 
been some  delays to Mr Ws transfer due to a slower response time between  brokers. And, 
in recognition of the frustration Mr W had suffered it offered him £150,  and a hamper.
Mr W didnt accept Barclays offer and brought his complaint to this service. In his complaint, 
he also said that he hadnt received all the dividend payments from Barclays that he had 
expected.
our adjudicators view
Mr Ws complaint  was investigated by one of our adjudicators who upheld his complaint in 
part, and said Barclays should pay Mr W an amount of £500.  This was in recognition  of the 
trouble and upset  caused to him by Barclays not being able to meet  his trading requirements 
during the SIPP  transfer process.
However, the adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws claims  in respect of lost trading profit, for the 
time and inconvenience hed expended on his complaint,  and for stress  whilst on holiday.
Mr W didnt agree with our adjudicators view and said that £500 compensation was 
insufficient.
my first provisional  decision
I issued my first provisional  decision  to both parties  on 22 March 2019. I said, in summary:
When Mr W first brought his complaint to this service,  he complained that Barclays 
hadnt paid him certain dividend payments. However, I understood that those 
payments had now been made, and that Mr W had withdrawn that part of his 
complaint. I had therefore not considered that issue further in my decision;
Ref: DRN42480612I could see that the transfer process  took just over eight weeks from start to finish. 
Barclays had accepted there were some delays during  the process when it was 
liaising with the new broker but overall  felt the transfer was completed in a 
satisfactory time frame. And I was minded to agree that the timeframe  for the transfer  
of the various  SIPP assets to the new broker was not unreasonable;
It was not in dispute that Mr W was locked out of his online SIPP account, and 
unable to trade, as soon  as Barclays received his transfer request. Barclays had 
explained that this was necessary  to prevent  miscalculations. And I was minded to 
accept Barclays explanation on this point. But I couldnt see that Mr W was told that 
his online access would be removed until he complained;
Mr W was clearly frustrated by the removal of his online access, and I could see that 
Barclays did try to help him. It sent him statements, and explained he could trade by 
telephone. I didnt think that Barclays could  be held responsible for the fact that Mr W 
was often abroad and in different time zones, and so these solutions didnt fully meet  
his requirements;
I accepted that Mr W traded regularly. And I noted  his claim for lost trading profit. But 
I was not persuaded that I could  agree  to Mr Ws claim as I didnt believe there  was 
any way to evidence  what trades  he mightve made or what profit or loss wouldve 
resulted. Without  evidence, any trades  Mr W might suggest he wouldve made during 
the transfer period would be with the benefit  of hindsight;
Id considered Mr Ws claims for his time and inconvenience in bringing the 
complaint, and for the stress and inconvenience  whilst  on holiday. As the adjudicator 
explained, there is always an amount of inconvenience for a consumer in bringing a 
complaint. And the amounts claimed  by Mr W were not in line with what  this service 
would normally regard  as reasonable  considering  the circumstances of the complaint;
I agreed with the adjudicator that Mr W was inconvenienced by being  unexpectedly 
locked out of his online account  during  the transfer process, and unable to trade  as 
much as he would  usually have done. But I was minded to find that this was only the 
case during the period from end June  until mid-July, when online "read  only"  access  
was established,  and Mr W was told he could deal by telephone. And, having 
considered the circumstances carefully, I was minded  to find that £250 compensation 
was fair and reasonable to compensate him for the trouble and upset he 
experienced.
Mr W didnt agree with my first provisional  decision.  He said, in summary:
the reduction in compensation  from £500  to £250 was not explained;
as Mr W acknowledged that he eventually received the dividends  my decision simply 
dismissed the time spent by him to confirm the completeness and accuracy of the 
payments made by Barclays;
He could not have traded as the telephone queues  were very lengthy;
Had he been told of the prolonged delay in transferring he would have liquidated  his 
portfolio and transferred cash.
Ref: DRN42480613Barclays did not provide  any further comments in response to my first provisional decision.
my second  provisional  decision.
I issued my second provisional decision  on 23 May 2019. I said,  in summary:
Mr W had said that my provisional  decision didnt deal with the time it took him to 
reconcile the receipt of dividends  from Barclays. And I accepted that I hadnt dealt 
with that in my first provisional  decision,  as I had understood that he had withdrawn 
his complaint about the dividend payments. But Mr W had clarified  that he only 
intended to withdraw the part of his complaint relating to the receipt of the monies. So 
I had now considered what he has to say about  the effort needed to confirm the 
completeness and accuracy of the payments;
To an extent, I considered that Mr W would always have  wished to reconcile the 
receipt of dividends. But I did provisionally accept  that there were issues with 
Barclays service  at this time that made this more difficult  and frustrating for him;
I noted that Mr W said that he was unable to trade due to the long telephone wait 
times. But although I understood that the telephone queues may have been lengthy, 
making dealing  more difficult,  I was not persuaded that this completely  prevented  
Mr W from dealing  in that way;
I also noted that Mr W said that he would have liquidated his portfolio  and transferred  
cash had he been told about the transfer  times. I was minded to accept that, since  he 
wasnt informed of the likely transfer  times, he had lost the opportunity to do this;
Taking these issues together, I provisionally agreed that an increase was warranted 
to the compensation set out in my first provisional  decision.  I was minded to increase  
the compensation to £500;
In his response to my view Mr W had suggested that he should  receive  
compensation of £1,000 for his time and inconvenience. So I was aware that he was 
unlikely to agree with my revised  compensation figure. However, although  Id 
considered everything Mr W had to say, I was minded to find that £500 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said that he will accept  £500  compensation to bring this matter to a close.  
However, he remains unhappy with my provisional decision and the amount of 
compensation I suggested  should be awarded to him.
Barclays has also responded to my second provisional decision. It feels  that its offer of 
around £230 (including the monetary value of the hamper) is fair and reasonable. And it 
says, in summary, that:
Mr W had held investments with Barclays since around 2007, had completed 
transfers into his account previously and would have been  fully aware that in-specie  
transfers can take 6-8 weeks;
Ref: DRN42480614Mr W had instructed  his transfer  with his new broker and hadnt conversed with 
Barclays about timescales;
It had written to Mr W on 2 July 2017,  acknowledging the transfer and instructing him 
that the online access wouldnt be available but that he would be able to trade  by 
telephone at the online  commission  rates;
The transfer was completed between 6-9 weeks when it was advising customers  
through its brochure that some transfers  could take up to 12 weeks;
It reinstated online access once Mr W called;
Dividends were paid out in accordance with its processes.  
Although Ive carefully considered everything  that Mr W and Barclays have said in response 
to my second provisional decision, I havent been  persuaded to change my mind. And I 
remain of the view that Barclays should  pay Mr W £500 compensation in respect  of his 
trouble and upset.  Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.  
Barclays says that Mr W was made  aware  of potential transfer times, and that it completed 
the transfer within those timescales.  But, although Ive previously accepted that the overall 
transfer time wasnt unreasonable, I remain of the view that Mr W was inconvenienced by 
being unexpectedly locked out of his account, given that he traded regularly. 
Barclays has now provided a copy of a letter which it says was sent to Mr W on 2 July 2017, 
telling him that it had suspended his online  access but that he could trade  by telephone. But 
this was sent after the event. And, as Mr W has explained, the telephone queues  at the time 
were extremely long due to the switch to the Smart  Investor platform. So, although I remain  
of the view that the queues didnt completely prevent Mr W from trading, I do not 
underestimate the frustration he was caused.  Mr W says, and I accept, that these issues  
caused him to lose faith in Barclays.
Barclays says that it paid residual dividend payments received after the main  transfer  in 
accordance with its processes. It says that, although it accepts this issue  caused Mr W some 
frustration it believes that its compensation offer takes into consideration the short delay in 
sending these to the new broker. But I dont agree this to be the case. Barclays internal 
notes indicate  that its offer of compensation was intended to address the time taken to 
complete the transfer and deal with the complaint. 
Mr W says that I havent dealt with his claim that Barclays breached client money  rules  due 
to the delay in paying  dividends to him. And I should  say that Im not persuaded that the rule 
Mr W has quoted means  that Barclays was required  to pay the dividends  to his new provider 
within ten business days of receipt of the money. I say this as Barclays says, and I accept, 
that it held the money as banker and not in accordance with the FCAs client money  rules.  
The rules  do allow this. But even  if Barclays had paid the dividends later than it should  have, 
to award appropriate  redress  I would need  to look at the detriment  to Mr W resulting from the 
delay. And Im satisfied  that my suggested  redress is sufficient to compensate Mr W for the 
issues he experienced.
Mr W is unhappy that Barclays  didnt  respond  to my first provisional  decision. But there is no 
obligation on Barclays to give a response  if it has nothing to add to what it has said 
previously. Barclays has responded to my second  provisional decision, and I have taken its 
comments into account before reaching  my final decision.
Both Mr W and Barclays queried how this service reaches decisions on the amount of 
compensation to award. As Barclays has noted,  there is general guidance on this on our 
Ref: DRN42480615website but my role is to reach a decision  on the basis of what I find to be fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of each  complaint. My decision is also 
independent of the first stage review undertaken by the adjudicator.  In this particular case, 
Ive reached my decision on the basis of the impact  on Mr W as an individual, including the 
inconvenience to him of not being able to trade online and his frustration  around  the receipt 
of dividends.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint  in part. I order  Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mr W £500 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4248061