K821x#15Complaint
Mr T has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions, which he says he 
didnt make.
Background
Mr T is disputing multiple transactions, totalling  over £15,000, which were made with his 
credit and debit cards  while he was abroad. 
Mr T visited a foreign city on 25 January 2018. He flew back to the UK on 26 January 2018  at 
around midday (local  time).  The visit was part of a skiing trip, which hed taken  with a friend. 
The disputed transactions took place on 26 January 2018 from 02.34  to 03.12 (local  time) 
and were made in a bar in the city. The last genuine transaction  was a payment on 26 
January 2018  at 00.27 in the bar at the hotel where he was staying.
Mr T said he noticed his cards and phone  were missing when he was on board the return 
flight to the UK. As soon  as he arrived  in the UK, he called Santander from the airport  to 
report the disputed  transactions and missing cards.
Initially, Santander refunded the full amount. However, after investigation, it decided  to re-
debit the transactions. It said the transactions were made with his cards and the PIN for 
each card was entered correctly on the first attempt. It also said Mr T had made  
contradictory statements. And as there was no plausible explanation  for how a third party 
knew his PINs, it concluded that Mr T had made the transactions. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Santanders  decision,  so he asked this service to investigate.
He told us that he normally uses his Santander  credit card when he is abroad and keeps his 
debit card as a back-up. He said he stores his cards  in a cardholder,  which  he places in his 
pocket when outside. When in the hotel, he stores it in the hotel safe.  He said he used the 
same PIN for each card.  He didnt keep a written note of the PIN, it wasnt  guessable,  and 
he hadnt shared  it with anyone else. 
He said he believed he bought drinks in the hotel bar on 26 January 2018 and then went  out 
on his own. He wandered around  for about 15 minutes and ended  up in another  bar. He 
didnt know the name  of the bar. He remembered he had two drinks, which he paid for using 
his Santander  credit card. He believed hed spent around 1.5  2 hours in the bar. He 
thought hed left the bar at around  10.30  11pm.
He couldnt remember  what  happened in the bar, but he thought the bar might have entered  
the wrong amount for the drinks and charged him more than expected.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold  it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the transactions had been  made fraudulently by a third party  and 
was persuaded  they were most likely  made and authorised by Mr T.
Ref: DRN46308522However, she discovered that Santander had declined three transactions, which were made 
with his credit card,  because they appeared suspicious. Its anti-fraud system sent Mr T a text 
message asking him to confirm the transactions were genuine, but he didnt respond. Yet, 
Santander allowed  a subsequent payment for £1,214.21 to go through. Similarly, it allowed 
£2,936.80 to go through on his debit  card,  despite being on notice of possible fraud by the 
declined credit card transactions. She considered  that Santander  should  have  stopped all 
payments made after it had sent the text message.
The investigator concluded it was fair and reasonable, therefore, for Santander to refund the 
two transactions  for £1,214.21 and £2,936.80, given that Mr T hadnt confirmed that the 
earlier transactions were  genuine. She asked  Santander to:
restore Mr Ts credit  card account  to the position  it wouldve been in had the £1,214.21 
not been deducted  and
refund the £2,936.80  
Santander agreed with the investigators  view.
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators view. He maintains he didnt  authorise  the transactions  
and believes  he has been scammed  by the bar. 
Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full the facts,  the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr T and Santander have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr T that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
In short,  Santander  is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). But the bank  can hold Mr T liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
Mr T says he didnt  make the disputed  payments  and he wants a refund. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think  Mr T authorised  the payment. 
Ref: DRN46308523Having reviewed the banks technical  evidence, Im satisfied Mr Ts genuine cards and PIN 
were used in order  for the disputed transactions to take place. But the regulations relevant to 
this case say that is not, on its own, enough  to enable Santander to hold him liable.  So, I 
also need to think  about whether the evidence suggests that its more  likely than not that he 
consented to the payments.
Originally, Mr T couldnt remember what happened and his account has varied over time. His 
present position  is that he was scammed in the bar and he has mentioned  being  
overcharged. However, he also reported his cards as missing. This implies  that his cards 
were lost and or stolen.
So, there are three possible  scenarios:
An opportunistic thief stole or found his cards and used them  in the bar, or
Mr T made the transactions  himself and forgot, or
Mr T made the transactions  himself but the bar overcharged him.
Im afraid I dont consider that his cards were  stolen and used by an opportunistic  thief.
Mr Ts PIN was entered correctly for each disputed transaction. There were  no failed 
attempts. It was the same PIN for each card. This means the person using the cards  already 
knew the PIN to both cards.  Yet, Mr T said he hadnt  kept a written note of the PIN or shared 
it with anyone else. On his own admission, only he knew the PIN. 
Ive considered whether he might have been shoulder-surfed in the hotel bar, which  is where 
he made the last genuine purchase  with his credit card, but I dont think this is what  
happened. He didnt  mention anyone being  close enough to him to see him entering  his PIN. 
And I dont  think its plausible that an opportunistic thief would wait two hours  before  using  
the card in the second bar, rather than make  immediate  cash  withdrawals or purchases.
Also, Mr T has always admitted going  on to another bar and buying additional drinks, which 
means he still had his card with him when he left the hotel. So, if anyone  shoulder surfed him 
there, then they would have had to follow him to the other bar to get his cards.
Its possible he was shoulder surfed  in the second bar and his cards were stolen in the same  
venue. But, again, I think its unlikely that the third party would use them in the same bar and 
then stop after only one hours  use. This isnt consistent with the usual fraud pattern.
The technical evidence  shows he made a payment in the hotel  bar and then all the disputed  
transactions were  made in the second bar. This is consistent with his version  of events, 
which is that he left the hotel  bar and went on to another venue. So, I believe he was in that 
second bar. Based on the evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr T stayed in the 
second bar longer than he originally stated and that he made the disputed  transactions.
The only question is whether he was scammed by being overcharged.  The transactions 
were large payments, ranging  from £1, 214 to approximately £4,500.  These amounts are 
normally associated with a gentlemens  club. Santander believes it was such an 
establishment. Its possible he didnt pay attention to the card machine or that the bartender  
scammed him by overcharging him.
But even if this did happen, Im afraid Mr T is still treated as having  authorised  the payments 
if he entered his card and PIN into the terminal.
Ref: DRN46308524Under the relevant regulations, a payment transaction is regarded as having been 
authorised by the payer only if the payer  has given its consent to the execution  of the 
payment transaction. The regulations go on to say that such consent must be given in the 
form, and in accordance  with the procedure, agreed  between the payer  and its payment 
service provider. The form and procedure are usually set out in the terms and conditions  
and it is the use of the card and PIN. 
Im afraid it doesnt matter  if he didnt know how much he was charged, if he was 
overcharged or if he didnt consent  to the amounts.  None of these are relevant factors under 
the regulations  in any claim against  the bank. If a customer has a dispute about the amount 
of a transaction, then that is something they need to take up with the merchant.
Ive also taken into account Mr Ts different statements. All in all, I dont find his testimony  to 
be persuasive or plausible. For example, he said he didnt realise his cards were  missing 
until he was on board the plane. According  to his bank statements, he travels  frequently.  I 
find it hard to believe that he wouldnt have checked to make  sure he had his wallet,  
cardholder, and phone before leaving the hotel. And as it was his habit to leave  his wallet  
and cardholder in the safe, then I would have expected  him to notice the cardholder wasnt 
there when  he got ready to leave.
Ive also considered the various changes he made to his evidence  over time. For example, 
he said he went to a couple of bars after leaving the hotel but when the timings  showed this 
wasnt possible, he changed his evidence to say he went  to the hotel bar and one other  bar.
He was also defensive  about how he knew his credit  card number  when he called Santander 
from the airport. He said he didnt have his card, yet he could remember the long card 
number. He said he hadnt memorised  it. When he was asked how he could  remember the 
number, he told the bank he had it written down  on a notepad at home. When it was pointed 
out that hed given the bank the card number from the airport,  he refused to answer any 
more questions and asked the bank  to write to him.
He later said that when  he arrived in the UK, his friend told him that his wife had been  trying 
to contact him. She had called the friends  wife, who contacted his friend. Mr T called his 
wife who said shed  received text messages about the transactions. He asked her to get the 
card numbers from an encrypted page  on his computer at home  and she reminded him he 
had the information on his laptop, which was with him.
I accept its common for people to forget information  when they are questioned about  an 
incident, especially  after a night out. And sometimes they dont recognise the relevance of 
certain facts when they first make a complaint.  However, I dont consider this was 
information that a person forgets easily.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr T authorised the disputed 
transactions and that Santander is entitled to refuse a refund under the relevant  regulations.
However, Santander has agreed to refund the two transactions  which were made after it 
sent Mr T a text alert message. I consider that this is a fair and reasonable settlement of 
Mr Ts complaint.
Im sorry  this isnt the outcome Mr T was expecting,  but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
Ref: DRN46308525My final decision
My final decision is that I am partly  upholding this complaint and I am asking Santander UK 
Plc to:
restore Mr Ts credit  card account  to the position  it wouldve been in had the £1,214.21 
not been deducted  and
refund the £2,936.80  and pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transaction  
left the account until it is refunded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4630852