K820x#14complaint
Mr B had a mortgage account with NRAM Limited  and complains  that, following 
repossession proceedings, it sold the property  for less than it was worth.  
 
background
In late November 2017, NRAM obtained a possession  order  in relation to the mortgaged 
property previously owned by Mr B. I understand that NRAM put the property on the market  
in December 2017 with an initial asking price  of £230,000. In January 2018, NRAM reduced  
the asking price to £200,000. In March  2018,  NRAM sold the property for £165, 000. Theres  
a shortfall of over £34,000 due under the mortgage.  
Mr B says that when  NRAM became involved with the sale of the property, hed already  
accepted an offer. He says that NRAM sold the property for less than it was worth. He wants 
to be put in the position he wouldve been in if the property had been sold for £225,000. 
Our investigator said that NRAM  hadnt treated Mr B unfairly in relation to the sale price. She 
said a charted surveyor had valued  the property at £100,000, taking into account necessary  
structural work. The investigator said that NRAM was entitled to rely on the professional 
advice it got from the surveyor. So, it wasnt acting unfairly or unreasonably in selling the 
property for £165,000. 
The investigator said that NRAM was willing to enter into a suitable repayment plan in 
relation to the shortfall and that Mr B should  contact it to discuss  the matter.  
The investigator said that as Mr B hadnt  complained to NRAM about  taking possession 
proceedings too soon, she couldnt  look at that complaint, as NRAM hadnt  had a chance to 
respond. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said hes certain  that the property was worth  more 
than £165,000 and theres no doubt  about  that as there were  higher offers.  Mr B asked that 
an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me.
In this decision, Im looking at whether  NRAM was at fault in relation to the sale price of the 
property. This service cant review decisions already made by a court,  such  as the fact or the 
timing of the repossession. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NRAM has a duty to obtain  the best price for the property. In determining  whether it has 
fulfilled that duty,  Ive considered the valuations obtained by NRAM and the information  Mr B 
has provided about the value of the property. 
Mr B says that in 2009, he had a buyer at £230,000 but withdrew the property from sale,  as 
there were difficulties with his intended  purchase. He says that shortly  before NRAM sold the 
property, he had an offer of £225,000  from buyers  who had instructed a surveyor to explore 
the foundations at the front of the house and still maintained  their offer.  Mr B says that there 
were other potential buyers too but NRAM ignored them  and sold the house for £165,000. 
Ref: DRN49015492Soon after NRAM  took possession  of the property, it obtained three  valuations,  one of 
£100,000 from a surveyor and two of £220,000  from estate agents, one of which was the 
estate agent with which Mr B had agreed a sale.  
The surveyor said that there was evidence of subsidence and recommended a structural  
engineers report.  He also said that the condition of the property was poor and that it was 
unlikely to be suitable security for a mortgage. 
In general, the qualifications and experience of a surveyor are likely to lead to a more  
accurate valuation than a valuation from an estate agent. Given  the difference between  the 
surveyors valuation and the valuations from the estate  agents, NRAM invited the surveyor to 
look again at his assessment of the market value. The surveyor declined to alter his 
valuation. 
I dont think that NRAM  was at fault in initially marketing the property at £230,000.  I think  that 
was optimistic in light of what the surveyor had said. 
Mr B has mentioned the sale he had agreed at £225,000. NRAM contacted the estate agent 
that had agreed  the sale. It said it believed that the structural engineers report said that the 
property requires underpinning  and that the sale was agreed on the basis that Mr B carried  
out the structural work. Based  on what Ive seen, I think that the agreed  sale Mr B was 
aware of didnt proceed, as the buyer wanted  Mr B to carry out the work.
NRAM isnt obliged to market a property indefinitely.  Im satisfied that the property was 
appropriately advertised. NRAM  isnt obliged to leave a property unsold over a period of 
time, with the debt continuing to accrue against  it, in the hope  of obtaining a higher price.  It 
tested the market and the property had several viewings but no offers. I dont think that it 
was at fault in reducing the asking  price to £200,000 when  it did. It got revised  market  
valuations from the estate agents  before doing  so. 
When NRAM agreed the sale at £165,000, it obtained confirmation  from one of the estate  
agents that it was the best price  reasonably  obtainable. It was considerably more than the 
valuation by the surveyor. 
I dont doubt that Mr B believes  that he could have  obtained  a better price but the fact 
remains that he didnt  do so during the lengthy  period he marketed the property. Im very 
sorry to disappoint  Mr B but NRAM followed  an appropriate process and was entitled to rely 
on the information it gathered. I dont think NRAM was at fault in relation to the sale price.
I would urge Mr B to contact NRAM about an arrangement to repay the shortfall. I note that 
he has previously done so but NRAM wants to carry out an affordability  assessment before 
agreeing to a formal  repayment plan. 
Ref: DRN49015493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4901549