K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs N bought the PPI policy over the phone in 2000 to protect her monthly repayments on a 
store card which shed  taken out over a year earlier.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, the insurer of the policy,  will take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs N disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.  Having  done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mrs N says she didnt know she had been  sold PPI and thinks  it was added  to her card 
account without  her knowledge  or consent.  But I have to bear in mind that this sale took 
place a long time ago and memories of such things  tend to fade over time. FICL doesnt 
have a recording of the call when it says it sold her the PPI. But this isnt that surprising 
either  businesses arent required to keep records over such long time periods. 
However, Ive no reason  to think that its likely that FICL would have added  the PPI to 
Mrs Ns card account after it had been opened  for some time, unless Mrs N had agreed to 
this. And as shed already used her card by then,  I think she would have consented to the 
cover knowing  that it was optional. I also think that Mrs N would have queried why PPI 
charges started  appearing on her card statements if she hadnt  agreed to take out the policy.
Ive also thought about what  we know more generally about how FICL sold PPI over the 
phone at around this time. And I havent  seen anything to make me think  it didnt follow its 
normal sales process on this occasion and failed  to make Mrs N aware that the policy was 
optional and to get her consent to taking  it.  
So on the limited  information available to me, I think that its most likely that Mrs N actively 
agreed to take the PPI, knowing she had a choice.
Ref: DRN47086022FICL says it didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs N and I think  this is likely to have been  
the case. This means  that it didnt have to ensure  that the policy  was suitable for her. But it 
still needed to ensure  that it gave her enough information for her to decide if she wanted to 
buy it. I think its likely that the information Mrs N was given by FICL wasnt as good as it 
should have been. But from what I know about her circumstances  at the time, I dont think 
better information would  have  changed  her mind  about taking the policy.  I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs N says she had generous sick pay and redundancy  benefits  available from her 
employer. She also says she may have had some savings  at the time and could have 
relied on her partner to support her in need. But this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any other means  that she might have  had available. If Mrs N hadnt been  able 
to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment it would  have paid off 15% of 
her outstanding card account balance for up to twelve months. So I still think  that Mrs N 
would have valued the extras security  the PPI policy  gave her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs N. and as the premiums were 
paid for monthly,  she could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met her needs.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mrs N has lost out by anything that FICL may have  
done wrong when it sold her this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4708602