K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complained that Society  of Lloyds settled a claim against her motor insurance policy.  
background 
Mrs R was involved in an accident on a roundabout. She felt that it was the other drivers 
fault. But the Society decided to settle the case on a 50/50  liability  basis. 
The Society said that they had acted reasonably and that they were entitled  to settle her 
case. So she brought her complaint to us. She wanted them to acknowledge that the 
accident wasnt her fault, and to apologise for the stress and anxiety she said theyd caused 
her. She also complained that their decision had caused her premiums to increase and 
affected her no claims bonus.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought  that the 
Society had settled the claim fairly  and reasonably  taking into account  the evidence  they 
had. Mrs R didnt agree and so her case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the investigator  explained to Mrs R, we dont  decide who is at fault for causing  an 
accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply 
to investigate whether  an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their 
policys terms and conditions when  they made their decision about who was responsible.   
Ive looked at Mrs Rs policy. It says on page  17 that:
We can:
 take over, carry out, defend or settle  any claim;  and
 take proceedings (which we will pay for, and for our own benefit) to recover any 
payment we have  made under this insurance.
  We will take this action  in your name 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  the Society  to settle any 
claim against her policy as they see fit, whether  Mrs R agrees with it or not. Insurers  are 
entitled to make a commercial decision about whether its reasonable for them to contest a 
claim or better for them to settle  it. 
Mrs R was adamant that the accident wasnt her fault. She said as follows.  She was 
established in the right lane on a roundabout on a route that she used often, and the other  
vehicle collided with hers.  So she felt that it was his fault. She gave the Society written and 
photographic explanations  of this. But she felt they hadnt listened  to her or believed her. 
She also felt that they had pressurised her to accept the 50/50  settlement. She said that their 
actions had left her upset,  anxious,  stressed  and out of pocket. 
Ref: DRN41000902She had to pay a £250 collection fee to the garage that repaired her car. However according 
to the garages  invoice  this was for her policy excess, which  an insured has to pay on any 
claim, regardless of fault. She also said that her insurance premiums  had increased so much  
at renewal that she was worried  she wouldnt be able to afford  to keep driving.  She didnt 
think the almost 80% premium increase was proportionate to the 50/50  liability  basis  theyd 
settled on. But as the investigator explained  to her, insurers  set the premium according to 
their commercial judgement and it doesnt  have to be proportionate with any settlement 
liability decision. 
As regards  liability, the Society decided that in the absence of independent witnesses or 
other independent evidence, such as CCTV footage,  it was one persons word against 
another. As they couldnt  be confident  of a successful outcome if the matter  went to court, 
they decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability split basis.   
Ive looked at the Societys files. I think that they had thoroughly  reviewed the evidence. So 
they did take into account Mrs Rs view that she wasnt  at fault,  and did at first defend her 
account against the other drivers. However in the end they felt it wasnt  economic  to defend 
it. Before settling the claim they gave her their reasons for doing so and allowed her to fully 
explain her account  of events. I can see that she thinks they pressurised her to accept their 
view of liability split, but I dont see any evidence of that. And, as Ive explained above, under 
her policy,  the Society were able to decide this even without her acceptance.  
I can see that Mrs R feels  very frustrated by the situation. She feels that she was in the right, 
and that the Society didnt believe her. But the Society thought  that the evidence  wasnt  
enough for them to be successful in court, and thats often a different thing. Taking 
everything into account, I consider that, in line with Mrs Rs policy  conditions,  the Society 
had the discretion to decide  as they did. And, as they didnt do so unfairly,  they havent done  
anything wrong  and I dont ask them  to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4100090