K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about a term assurance life protection policy  he was sold by a 
business now part of Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited. He has said he thought the policy  
would pay a lump  sum at the end of it and that it was a whole of life plan.
background
Mr S met with the business  which sold him the policy in 1998  and it is recorded  that the 
reason for this was to take out some  family  protection. At that point in time Mr S was married  
with one dependent child who was fourteen years old. Mr S was working  with a company 
which provided good employee  benefits.  Mrs S was also working but appears to not have 
had any employee  benefits in place.  They had a mortgage but already had protection  in 
place for this. 
The adviser identified  a need  for family protection in the event of Mrs Ss death  because of 
her lack of life protection. He therefore  recommended a term assurance  policy  be taken out 
on the life of Mrs S with Mr S as the policy owner  and beneficiary. The sum assured was for 
£50,000 and the term was for twenty  six years. The policy  was also set up so the premium  
and sum assured increased in line with the retail  price index (RPI) every year. The policy 
was also a yearly renewable one which meant  the premium was revised each year based on 
the amount of life cover  the policy provided  at that time, the age of the life assured and the 
premium rates applicable  at the time of the review.
When Phoenix investigated the complaint it decided Mr S had a need for family protection  in 
the form of life cover but it thought the policy should  not have increased  regularly  in line with 
RPI. The adviser had identified a shortfall of around  £42,000 in life protection  but the policys 
sum assured was £50,000 so Phoenix felt  that as the policy provided more protection  than 
was actually identified,  it wasnt right for the plan to continue increasing because  that gave 
Mr S far more  protection than was needed. It therefore upheld the complaint in part on the 
basis that the policy shouldnt have been linked to the RPI. It offered to give Mr S the 
difference in the premium he would have  paid had the RPI option not been taken. This would 
reduce the sum assured on the policy from £77,862  to £50,000 and the premiums  would 
also be recalculated  in line with this, but the reviews  would continue to take place  annually.
As Mr S wasnt happy with this he brought his complaint to this Service  complaining that he 
thought the plan would be fully paid up at the end of the twenty-six year term but would 
continue to provide  protection  and would pay a lump sum at the end.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He felt the identified shortfall in life protection was justified  and so a policy that would 
protect Mr S and his child in the event of Mrs Ss death seemed to be suitable given the 
information he had seen. But he agreed that the RPI increases  were unnecessary so agreed 
with the with the redress suggestion Phoenix made.
He also was of the view that Mr S had chosen a life assurance plan that would pay out on 
death as well as a savings plan that would pay a lump sum at the end of the term from the 
financial questionnaire that was completed  at the time of the sale.
Mr S didnt agree. He also explained  that he didnt remember taking out the savings plan.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
Ref: DRN44770302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Its worth  noting that very little information has been provided by both parties from the time of 
the sale. This isnt unusual given the policy was taken in 1998. But what this means  is that it 
makes it more difficult to know exactly what happened when the policy was sold.  And I can 
only make  my decision based on what I have been provided with.
First I have considered whether Mr S needed any form of life protection  at all in 1998.  As 
identified in the financial questionnaire  Mr S completed with the adviser, Mr S was married 
with a dependent child so I think its reasonable that he had a need for some family 
protection. Its not unusual for someone to want to protect their family in the event  of a death. 
The policy was set up on the life of his wife. As Mr S was in a job which  provided him with 
good employee benefits but Mrs S wasnt, this is also reasonable. As it stood, before taking 
the policy had Mr S passed away its likely  his family would be protected  by some of his 
employee benefits. However it appears  that Mrs S didnt have any such protection in place  
so had she passed away, the family would suffer a loss of income which  could be 
detrimental for them and would have  nothing in place to supplement  that. By taking the 
policy it meant that while the family  would be impacted by a loss of a second salary the lump 
sum payment that would be made under the policy could be used to supplement that loss.
I appreciate the term was for twenty  six years but again I dont think  this is unusual as this 
would have provided the cover until Mrs S was retired  rather than until the point at which the 
dependent child stopped  being dependant. There is nothing unusual  with someone wanting  
to provide some protection for their family  for as long as they could. Also as this plan was a 
yearly renewable term assurance plan this could be cancelled at any time and its likely this 
was the most cost effective way of providing  the cover  it looks like Mr S required at that point 
in time.
I therefore think from the information provided that Mr S had a need for the protection and 
would have found it useful had a claim had to be made during its term.
Mr S has said the policy was sold on the basis  that there would be a lump sum payment  at 
the end of the policy. I obviously  wasnt at the meeting when the sale took place so I cant  
say what was discussed. So I therefore  need  to consider the information that has been  
provided from the time of the sale to decide  whether Mr Ss complaint can be supported.
While the information  is sparse there is nothing in the documentation that says a lump sum 
payment will be made  at the need  of the policy.
I dont have the policy schedule and neither Phoenix  nor Mr S can provide that but I know 
from my experience in such  matters  that the policy schedule would have stated an end date 
of the policy.
I have however seen  the policy provisions which state that if the life assured is alive at the 
termination date the policy will terminate without value. I think  this would have been enough 
for Mr S to know  that the policy had an end date and that if no claim was made no payment 
would be made.
Ref: DRN44770303I also know that Phoenix has sent Mr S policy information every year since  the business that 
sold the policy became  a part of it. I have seen this information for a few years  up to current 
date it is clearly stated that the end date of the policy is 2024. Again I think  this would have 
made Mr S aware that the policy would end at some  point in the future. I appreciate  Mr S 
has said he thought  he expiration date meant the date the policy  would be made  fully paid 
up but I dont think  there  was  any information  that I have seen that would make him think  
that.
Having looked  at the financial  questionnaire  I have already  mentioned that was completed 
during the sales  meeting, I can see there was section in it which  asked what  sort of life 
assurance options was needed and the box for starting a life assurance  plan which  pays a 
lump sum out on death was ticked presumably by Mr S or with the agreement  of Mr S. There 
then followed another section which asked  what type of savings and investment option was 
required and the option to provide a lump  sum at the end of the plan was ticked.  On this 
basis Mr S appears to have been recommended to start a savings  plan at the same  time as 
taking out the life protection. This may explain why Mr S thought  he had taken a plan that 
would pay a lump  sum at the end of the term. I know he has said he doesnt remember 
taking out the plan but this is largely irrelevant because at the point of sale at least  it looks 
like the plan was to take out two types of policies, one to provide life protection  and one to 
provide savings vehicle for the future.  And in any event it also supports the fact that he did 
want to take out a life protection and would have  known at that point in time that any 
payment made under that plan would only be paid upon death.
Overall however with regards to the life protection policy that Mr S has complained about 
I just cant see anything  in the little information  that I have been provided  that leads me to 
think Mr S was told this specific plan would pay out a lump sum at the end of the term. I think  
it was clear from the paperwork that the policy had an end date and that nothing  would be 
paid if no claim is made. I also am satisfied  that Mr S has a need for the policy given the 
information I have  about his personal and financial circumstances at the time of the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4477030