K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about information provided to credit reference agencies  by TSB Bank plc. 
Shes also unhappy TSB Bank plc havent  defaulted  her account with them.
background
Mrs G has a current account  with TSB.
In March 2016, Mrs Gs account was overdrawn  by more than £2,500. TSB asked Mrs G to 
repay the money. In October 2016  she paid the first instalment  of a repayment plan agreed  
with the bank through a debt management  charity.
Given that shes continued to repay her debt as agreed since then, Mrs G is unhappy that 
her credit reference file suggests shes in arrears  and has been since  around  June  2016.
She also thinks its unfair that TSB didnt  default  her account in 2016.  She had a number of 
other accounts at the time which  were  defaulted. Although  those defaults  show  on her credit 
reference file, they will only do so for six years in total. 
Mrs G thinks the credit  reference information  provided by TSB has prevented her from 
getting a mortgage.
Mrs G complained to TSB.  They  didnt  uphold her complaint. 
They said the information theyd provided to credit reference agencies  was accurate. They 
said they werent aware of the arrangement made to repay the debt via the debt 
management charity. And they said they were happy to close  the account  once the debt had 
been paid off in full.
Mrs G wasnt  happy with that response  and complained to us. Our investigator looked  into it 
and thought TSB had done nothing  wrong.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  gives advice about when defaults should be 
registered. In their view,  a default may reasonably  be registered  once  a customer is three 
months behind with their repayments. And a default  should be registered by the time the 
customer is six months behind.
I have to decide whether TSB have  acted fairly and reasonably in the way theyve handled  
Mrs Gs account.  So Im not strictly bound  by the ICOs  guidance. And there  may be 
exceptional circumstances  where  applying it to the letter  isnt the right thing to do.
But in the absence of any such exceptional circumstances, it would be very difficult for me to 
come to the conclusion that TSB had acted unfairly or unreasonably  if they were  following 
the ICOs guidance.
Ref: DRN46884502TSB began to ask Mrs G to repay her overdraft  in around June 2016, as they were entitled  to 
do and as per the terms and conditions of the account. They issued an enforcement notice in 
July 2016. 
Mrs G began making payments under the newly agreed repayment  arrangement  in October  
2016  more than three  but less than six months  later. 
Given that background, Im satisfied it was for TSB to decide whether they defaulted Mrs Gs 
account in the period after three months  but up to the point at which the repayment  plan was 
agreed. 
At the point the new repayment  arrangement was agreed, and given that a default hadnt 
already been registered, we wouldnt expect TSB to default the account.  A repayment plan 
was now in place  and it would be unfair to default the account in those circumstances.
Other lenders may have  made different decisions, but that doesnt mean TSB have to follow  
the same  path. In the circumstances, they were entitled to default the account or not as they 
thought best up until the point the new repayment  arrangement was agreed. 
I also think its slightly odd that Mrs G should complain now that a default should have been 
the outcome when  she voluntarily entered into the repayment agreement in October 2016 as 
a means to settle  her debt to TSB.  
In any case, I cant conclude that TSB have acted  unfairly or unreasonably in choosing not to 
default the account and in allowing Mrs G to enter into a long term repayment agreement. 
They were  entitled  to take that course  of action, in my view.
Mrs Gs credit reference file shows her TSB account with a code  which suggests that since  
around June 2016,  shes  in arrears  on her original agreement, but has agreed new 
repayments with the lender to bring  the account  back into order.
That seems  to me to be an accurate reflection of the position. Mrs G didnt repay the debt 
when she was originally  asked to do so  and she was over £2,500 in debt to TSB  but she 
has now come to an agreement with them to repay the debt over an extended period of time.
So I dont  think any potential lender would be misled  about the truth of the situation  when 
they read Mrs Gs credit  reference  file. If Mrs G thinks the recorded information doesnt  give 
enough detail  about her particular circumstances, shes entitled to add a note to the file 
which explains her position as she sees it.  
Im afraid I dont accept  that the credit reference  information provided by TSB is the reason 
for Mrs G not being able to get a mortgage.  
Theres no doubt that information  negatively  affects  her credit rating. It would do, she owes 
them a significant  amount  of money  and couldnt  pay it back  when  requested in line with the 
relevant terms and conditions.
However, theres another  account from a different lender with the same late payment code 
on Mrs Gs file. And several accounts which are recorded as defaulted.
Ref: DRN46884503Its not for me to guess  the reasons for the decisions made by potential  lenders, but I can 
say the information about her TSB account  is not the only information  which  is affecting 
Mrs Gs ability to obtain credit.
I should say that TSB handled  Mrs Gs original complaint to them badly. They  denied  
knowing anything about the debt repayment  arrangement despite the fact it has been agreed  
with them  and had been in place  since  October  2016.
I can understand Mrs Gs frustration about that, but I dont think it has materially  altered her 
situation. The fact is that she does owe money  to TSB which she didnt pay back  when 
asked. That  and the fact shes arranged  to pay it back over time  is accurately recorded in 
her credit reference file.
In summary,  I cant conclude that TSB have  acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in 
the way theyve handled her account  or in their reporting of (accurate) information to credit  
reference agencies.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4688450