K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim under  
their travel insurance policy. 
All references to AXA include  the agents  it has appointed to handle  claims. 
background
Mr and Mrs R hold a travel  insurance policy, provided by AXA, as a benefit  of their bank 
account. 
While on holiday  abroad, Mr R unfortunately fell ill and was admitted to hospital. Mr R was 
discharged after a few days and Mr and Mrs R continued with their trip. 
However, just under  two weeks later, Mr R visited  a hospital in a different location suffering  
from similar symptoms.  Mr R was subsequently  certified as being  fit to fly on 31 January 
2019 with a non-medical escort. Mrs R, who had been ill earlier during the trip, was certified 
as being fit to fly without  an escort on the same date. 
AXA attempted to arrange return flights to the UK for Mr and Mrs R on 31 January 2019  but, 
following a dispute  about whether the fit to fly certificates related to long-haul flights, Mr and 
Mrs R remained  abroad. 
Mr Rs condition then deteriorated  and he was certified as not fit to fly until after the results  of 
a follow-up appointment on 11 February 2019. During this time, Mr and Mrs R informed  AXA 
that their visas were  about to expire. AXA attempted to assist  Mr and Mrs R with extending 
their visas but were  unable to do so, so AXA told Mr and Mrs R theyd need to arrange  this 
themselves.
Mrs R was then admitted to hospital.  After she was discharged,  and after AXA was satisfied 
that both Mr and Mrs R were fit to fly, AXA told Mr and Mrs R it intended  to arrange 
repatriation flights on 14 February  2019. AXA said if Mr and Mrs R didnt obtain visa 
extensions before their fit to fly certificates expired, cover under their travel insurance policy 
for anything  other than repatriation flights would cease. 
When AXA learned that Mr and Mrs R had cancelled their visa application, it withdrew cover 
under their travel insurance policy. AXA said, as soon as Mr and Mrs R confirmed their visas 
had been extended, it would arrange repatriation flights. AXA arranged for Mr and Mrs R to 
fly back to the UK one month later. 
Mr and Mrs R complained  to AXA. They said theyd incurred  significant costs abroad as a 
result of AXAs decision to withdraw  cover  under  their policy. They  said AXA hadnt  
communicated with them effectively about  the claim,  had refused to arrange to send their 
luggage to them while abroad,  and hadnt given  them any assistance when Mrs R had been  
admitted to hospital.  
AXA looked  into Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and acknowledged there  had been  poor 
communication and that it hadnt  responded to emails in a timely manner. AXA offered to 
pay Mr and Mrs R £200 compensation in respect of this and said it would reimburse them  for 
a taxi theyd paid for on their arrival back in the UK on submission of a receipt.  However, 
AXA said it had done everything possible to assist  Mr and Mrs R while they were abroad,  but 
Ref: DRN48228872that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt return to the UK despite AXAs instructions and 
recommendations to do so. 
As Mr and Mrs R remained  unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator looked into what had happened  and said he thought  AXAs offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, so the complaint  was passed to me to decide. Since then, Mr and 
Mrs R have provided lengthy additional submissions  in support of their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  what  happened to Mr and Mrs R while they were abroad. I have no 
doubt this was a distressing and upsetting experience for them  but, for the reasons Ive 
explained below,  I wont be upholding their complaint. 
AXA considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about  the payment of their claim separately so, 
within this decision,  Im only commenting on AXAs handling of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs R have provided  extensive  information about their complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything  theyve sent to us, but I wont be addressing every point theyd raised.  
Instead, in line with my remit,  Ill be focusing on what I think the key outstanding issues  are. 
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, AXA is responsible for paying for 
emergency medical fees, as well as repatriation if this is medically necessary. 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy says:
We reserve the right toarrange for Your repatriation to the United Kingdom at any 
time during the Trip. We will do this, if in the opinion  of AXA (based on information 
provided by the Medical Practitioner in attendance) You can be moved safely
This means  that any decisions about  repatriation are for AXA to make, based on an 
assessment of the available  medical  evidence  including the advice of Mr and Mrs Rs 
treating doctors.  
While Id expect AXA to give some  consideration to Mr and Mrs Rs preferences for how they 
want to travel, these  are just preferences and its not up to Mr and Mrs R to decide  what is 
medically necessary.    
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen  that Mr and Mrs R didnt  wish to return  to the UK on the 
route AXA wanted them to on 31 January 2019, and that they didnt want  to return to the UK 
on 14 February 2019 either. Mrs R repeatedly emailed Mr Rs doctor setting out her opinions 
on the matter, but her insistence on a period of rest and recuperation en-route back to the 
UK on 31 January  2019 is not supported by medical evidence, nor is her opinion that a 
repatriation on 14 February 2019  was unethical  or dangerous.  
The fit to fly certificates which Ive seen say Mr and Mrs R were fit to fly on 31 January 2019. 
The fit to fly certificates dont mention that these  flights needed  to be short haul only or say 
Ref: DRN48228873that Mr and Mrs R needed  to go via any specific route. If this was the case, and Mr and Mrs 
Rs doctors had made any such recommendations, Id expect these  to be specifically 
mentioned on the fit to fly certificates. Furthermore,  AXAs notes show  it spoke  to Mr Rs 
doctor on 30 January  2019, who said Mr R was fit to fly back to the UK.
The additional evidence  provided by Mr and Mrs R, including the medical  report dated July 
2019, doesnt say they were unfit to fly on the route AXA was proposing on 31 January 2019 
 or indeed on 14 February  2019. Ive also taken  account of the fact that Mr Rs doctor  was 
recommending that he should return to the UK as early as 11 January 2019. 
Ive seen a message from a nurse  at one of the hospitals where Mr R was treated, to Mrs R 
dated 31 January  2019, which talks about  Mrs Rs preferred route as being the best 
solution. The message  said flying to the UK could be possible with a medical escort  but 
concluded by saying Mr Rs condition was stable and we cannot  say no to flying to UK.
Overall, I think the fit to fly certificates  from a doctor and the doctors comments to AXA are 
more persuasive evidence than any of Mr and Mrs Rs direct correspondence  with a nurse, 
in circumstances  where Mr and Mrs R were repeatedly asking that nurse  to note their own 
preferences on medical documentation.  
Mrs R has objected to AXAs assumption  that she would be the non-medical  escort  for Mr R. 
However, the medical report  provided by the hospital says:
Fit to fly on 31/Jan/2019 with non-medical escort (his wife) as his plan
I dont think it was unreasonable,  based  on this information, for AXA to consider that Mrs R 
would act as Mr Rs escort. Mr and Mrs R were on holiday together to celebrate their 
wedding anniversary,  they were insured under the same policy,  and theres no medical  
evidence to suggest Mrs R was unfit to be an escort for Mr R. If Mrs R didnt wish to be 
Mr Rs medical  escort  for any particular personal  reasons, then it was open to her to tell AXA 
this at the time. 
So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R were  medically  certified as fit to fly back to the UK on a long-
haul flight on 31 January 2019. Im also satisfied, based on the evidence  Ive seen, that Mr 
and Mrs R were  fit to fly on 14 February 2019, when AXA attempted to arrange  flights for the 
second time. 
Ive seen no evidence  that AXA booked an evening flight  for Mr and Mrs R on 14 February  
2019, as theyve suggested.  Instead,  AXA sent a number of emails  to Mr and Mrs R in the 
lead up to 14 February 2019  which  clearly  state a flight  had not been  booked and would not 
be booked until visa extensions were in place. 
It was Mr and Mrs Rs responsibility to arrange  the visa extensions  which  were  necessary for 
them to travel, and they would have been aware from Mr Rs first admission to hospital when 
their original visas were due to expire. AXA did make an initial  unsuccessful  attempt to help 
Mr and Mrs R arrange visa extensions  and then provided detailed  information to Mr and 
Mrs R in an email  on 4 February 2019  explaining what they needed to do. So, Im satisfied 
AXA provided Mr and Mrs R with a reasonable level of assistance and information about 
how to obtain  visa extensions. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs explanations about what happened  with their visas  are 
consistent or credible. Mrs R said they would have  had no passport or visas to take a flight  
Ref: DRN48228874on 31 January 2019, but AXAs claim notes show Mrs R told them shed collected the 
passports on 30 January  2019 when they arrived from their previous destination by public 
transport. Mr and Mrs R have also mentioned that they asked a hotel to arrange visa 
extensions for them  on 12 January 2019,  and said the final visa extension in March  2019 
was already the third time their visas had been  extended. 
While I understand the visa offices were closed  for a period of time in February  2019,  and 
that it may have been difficult for Mrs R to obtain visa extensions  when she herself was in 
hospital, I dont  think Mr and Mrs R acted  reasonably by cancelling their visa application on 
13 February 2019. I think Mr and Mrs R had already had more than a fair opportunity  to 
arrange the visa extensions by this time. 
After Mr and Mrs R cancelled their visa application,  AXA withdrew cover under their policy. 
This is in line with the following policy term:
If You do not accept  Our decisions and do not want to be repatriated,  then We may 
cancel your cover
I dont think AXA acted  unfairly by withdrawing Mr and Mrs Rs policy on 13 February 2019. 
By this point  it had presented two possible flight options to Mr and Mrs R  one on 31 
January 2019  and one on 14 February 2019, which Mr and Mrs R had unreasonably failed to 
travel on. AXA said it was still prepared to provide reasonable  non-financial assistance  to Mr 
and Mrs R after 13 February  2019,  which I think was a fair and reasonable position  for AXA 
to take in the circumstances. 
AXA arranged for Mr and Mrs Rs repatriation  once it received confirmation that their visas 
had been extended in March 2019. Ive seen  no evidence that shorter routes were requested 
and/or were  available  at the time, as Mrs R has subsequently mentioned,  and Ive seen no 
medical evidence  that the route  home which AXA arranged was unsuitable for either Mr or 
Mrs R. 
Turning to AXAs handling of the claim,  I think its clear that AXA didnt communicate as 
effectively as if could  have with Mr and Mrs R at the beginning of this claim.  
AXA has already  acknowledged it didnt reply  to emails when it should  have.  Mrs R said AXA 
only contacted  her twice  in January  2019.  I can see from AXAs  claims notes that it did try to 
contact Mr and Mrs R on a number of other  occasions, but I think  there was more  AXA could 
have done to keep Mr and Mrs R updated,  to assist them with arranging accommodation and 
to progress the claim in a timely manner in the time between  being  notified of the claim and 
22 January 2019,  when  it arranged an appointment for Mr R with a specialist.
While I understand AXA was aware  Mr and Mrs R had a car at the airport in the UK, I think  it 
would have been reasonable for AXA to have made arrangements for a taxi when Mr and 
Mrs R returned home  given their circumstances.  AXA has offered to reimburse Mr and Mrs R 
for the taxi they took home from the airport on receipt of evidence  of the cost, which I think is 
fair in the circumstances.
However, I think AXA otherwise handled  this claim in a fair reasonable way. Mr and Mrs R 
had a responsibility to co-operate  with AXA when it was trying  to assist  them.  When  Mr and 
Mrs R didnt co-operate,  AXA withdrew  cover. So, I think the situation Mr and Mrs R found 
Ref: DRN48228875themselves in after 13 February 2019  was of their own making, rather than down to any 
failings on the part of AXA. 
Falling ill abroad is distressing and inconvenient, but the level of assistance  which  a travel 
insurer will provide in these circumstances isnt unlimited. Mr and Mrs R seem to have had 
unrealistically high expectations of what their travel insurance policy  covered, and what level 
of assistance  AXA should provide. AXA had no obligation to provide a carer for Mr R unless 
this was medically necessary, or to arrange  for him to be in a private ward in hospital. The 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, in common with most travel insurance 
policies, dont provide for AXA to appoint an interpreter for Mr and Mrs R, or to appoint a 
local agent to assist them at their destination.  
I understand AXA was unable  to arrange for Mr and Mrs Rs luggage to be transported to 
them from another country  while they were abroad. Instead, the luggage was sent to the UK 
after Mr and Mrs R had returned home. Ive seen evidence that AXA tried to arrange for the 
luggage to be sent to Mr and Mrs R on 4 February  2019 while  they were still abroad  but was 
unable to do so. At that point, AXA was working towards repatriating Mr and Mrs R to the UK 
as soon as possible, as it was entitled to do, so I dont think  it was unreasonable  that AXA 
failed to make any further enquiries about  transporting their luggage abroad at that point.  
Mr and Mrs R have complained about AXAs lack of assistance when Mrs R was admitted to 
hospital on 5 February  2019. I can see from AXAs notes  that Mrs R was concerned about 
Mr R being alone  while she was in hospital, but I think  there was little AXA could reasonably 
have done to assist Mr and Mrs R in this situation. Ive seen no medical evidence that Mr R 
was unable to be left alone  at this time. AXA did attempt to obtain a medical report  from the 
hospital where Mrs R was staying during her two-night  admission, but the department was 
closed as it was a public holiday. 
Overall, I think the offer of £200  compensation which AXA has made is fair in the 
circumstances for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs R by its actions. 
Mrs R has also mentioned  that AXA didnt provide her with a reasonable level of assistance  
when she made a claim relating to a fall she had earlier in the trip. However, this isnt 
something which Mrs R has previously specifically  complained to AXA about. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service has no power  to consider a complaint  unless the business involved 
has first been given the opportunity to address the matter, and I dont have any information  
about Mrs Rs claim  resulting from the fall. If Mrs R wants to complain  about  this issue, shed  
need to specifically raise a complaint  with AXA in the first instance.  
Ref: DRN48228876my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs R £200 compensation 
and to reimburse them for the cost of a taxi from the airport in the UK to their home address, 
on submission of a receipt. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, so my decision is 
that AXA Insurance UK Plc should  pay this to Mr and Mrs R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4822887