K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that J.P. Morgan  Europe  Limited wont  refund five card withdrawals  made on 
his Post Office account, which it provides and administers. He says that he neither made nor 
authorised the withdrawals.  
background
Mr J has a Post Office account,  which is an account intended primarily for the payment of 
government benefits.  In March 2019  Mr J received a one-off payment of £1,500  
significantly more than his regular payments. 
A few days  later the Post Office received a telephone call from someone claiming to be Mr J 
and requesting a replacement  card. The new card was collected later the same day from a 
Post Office  branch and then used almost immediately to withdraw £600. Shortly after 
midnight the following day there were several further attempts to use the new card at a cash  
machine. Not all were successful, but two (for £200 and £50) were. After 9am on that 
morning, the card was used to make two further withdrawals (of £300 and £50) at a Post 
Office. 
Mr J has explained that he tried to use his old card later that day. He was unable  to do so, 
because it had been cancelled when the new card was issued. When he contacted  the Post 
Office he was told that a new card had been ordered the day before and used to make the 
withdrawals Ive described.
Mr J says that he has health problems and that he was living with his daughter  and her 
partner for a short time before  the disputed payments  were  made.  Tensions  had arisen, 
however, and when  he left he says some of his paperwork  may have remained at his 
daughters house.  He says too that he didnt give anyone else his PIN, but accepts that his 
daughter may have  seen him use it, since  she would  sometimes  accompany him when 
shopping.
JP Morgan  says that it believes Mr J is liable  for the disputed withdrawals because, in 
breach of the account terms, he didnt keep  his security details and PIN safe. This enabled 
someone else to order  a new card and collect  it, and then use it with the PIN. 
Mr J referred the case to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. She 
recommended that JP Morgan refund the sum of £1,200  taken without Mr Js authority, pay 
interest on that sum at 8% a year and pay Mr J a further £150 in recognition of the distress 
hed been caused and the inconvenience  to which  hed been put.
JP Morgan  didnt accept  the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.       
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Ref: DRN48828722Ive considered first of all whether Mr J may have carried  out the withdrawals himself, or 
authorised someone  else to do so. JP Morgan  doesnt appear to suggest  that he did; rather  
it says his actions  allowed  someone else to make  them without his knowledge. But, for the 
sake of completeness, I accept that someone  was able to obtain a new card on Mr Js 
account without  his knowledge.  I agree with the investigator that the person who called the 
Post Office  to order a new card doesnt  sound  like Mr J; I note as well that they didnt appear 
to be able to answer  all security questions  as fluently as I might  have expected  of Mr J. 
I accept too that Mr J didnt give his PIN to anyone. But it wouldnt have been  difficult for 
someone living with him to obtain it. 
I must therefore consider whether Mr J took proper care of his security information  and his 
PIN and, if not, whether  that enabled  someone  else to make  the disputed withdrawals. The 
relevant test I have  to consider is whether he acted  with gross negligence  the term used 
in the Payment Services Regulations  2017,  which apply here. That term indicates  a very 
high degree of carelessness.  I agree  with the investigator that, whilst there were no doubt 
additional precautions that Mr J could have taken, I dont believe that he was grossly 
negligent here. It appears likely that any telephone  contact he might have had with the Post 
Office could have  been overheard, and his daughter and her partner would have known  a lot 
of his personal details  in any event.  Similarly, it wouldnt have been difficult  for one or other  
of them  to observe  Mr Js PIN when he was using his card. 
I believe its worth noting  too that Mr J still had his old card and believed it was still working.  
Had he considered  at the time whether his account  was at risk of unauthorised cash  
machine withdrawals, he would have been  entitled to think it wasnt.  None could be made 
without the card. And the unauthorised withdrawals were caused  at least in part  by the 
fact that the Post Office  issued a new card to someone who wasnt  Mr J, even though there  
were indications that that was the case.
On balance, I think it likely that someone  was able to piece together  sufficient information to 
order a new card and was also able to observe Mr Js PIN. I dont believe that means that he 
acted with gross negligence.  
JP Morgan  says it doesnt believe  that its appropriate to include interest  in any award, since  
Mr Js account isnt an interest-bearing one. He hasnt lost any interest  as a result  of the 
disputed withdrawals. However, interest  on our awards is not intended simply to replace 
interest that would otherwise have been  earned; it can also reflect to some degree  the cost 
of being deprived  of funds and so is often  more aligned to a borrowing rate, not a savings 
rate. To some extent, therefore, this services approach  reflects that which  a court  might  
take. Its not uncommon for this service  to use the statutory rate that applies to some court 
judgments, currently 8% a year; I think thats  appropriate here. 
I also agree  that Mr J should receive some  additional compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience hes been put to and the distress  hes suffered, and I agree with the 
investigator that £150 is appropriate.     
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited should pay 
Mr J: 
£1,200; 
interest on £1,200  at 8% a year simple from 20 March 2019 until payment; and 
Ref: DRN48828723£150 in recognition  of the inconvenience hes been put to and the distress hes suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4882872