K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to prevent an authorised push payment fraud.
background
In August  2017  Mr F visited a branch of Lloyds and instructed staff to make a CHAPS 
payment of £120,000 to an account  with another bank. He believed that account to belong to 
his solicitor, but the solicitors email had been intercepted by a fraudster who had changed  
the account details. The next day, a second  fraudulent email was sent to confirm that the 
funds had been received, presumably to allow the fraudster as much time as possible to 
withdraw the funds,  which took place over the next six days.
When the fraud came to light a few days later, Mr F immediately contacted Lloyds. Lloyds 
contacted the other bank, but was told that all of the money had already been withdrawn or 
spent, and there was nothing left to recover.
Mr F complained to Lloyds, and later to this service, that Lloyds had been negligent in 
allowing the payment to go through. He said that Lloyds should have spotted that the name  
on the receiving account  did not match the name on his written payment instruction. He said 
that Lloyds had not carried out proper checks, even though it had had time to do so 
(because the payment had cleared a few hours  after he requested  it). He also complained  
that Lloyds branch staff had not warned  him about the risks of making a CHAPS  payment 
using account  details provided  to him in an email. Had it done so, he would have called his 
solicitor before authorising the payment.
Lloyds said it didnt  have  the ability to check the name on the receiving account, and it had 
complied with the relevant rules.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Lloyds had been under no 
obligation to do more than check the account  number and sort code. It hadnt  had to check  
the name on the account. It had tried to get the money back  once it was told about the fraud, 
but the money had already gone.  He didnt  think Lloyds had had to do more than that.
Mr M, who works at a claims management  company acting for Mr F, asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He argued  that Lloyds branch staff should  have asked  Mr F 
questions, or more  questions, about the payment to check  it was valid.  He also argued that 
new anti-fraud measures  announced in 2016  should have been implemented sooner.  So this 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I accept that the fraudulent email was convincing, and I attach no blame to Mr F for not 
spotting it. This was a mean and vicious fraud which could  have happened  to anyone.
The legislation which applied to CHAPS  payments at the time was a statutory instrument 
called the Payment Services Regulations 2009. These regulations  set out what Lloyds was 
required to do when  processing a payment. In summary, Lloyds was only required to 
Ref: DRN44436712consider the account number and sort code  collectively called the unique identifier in the 
regulations.
Regulation 74, entitled Incorrect  unique identifiers,  said that if a person making a payment  
provided his bank with the unique identifier for the wrong account, then the bank  would not 
be liable  for sending the money to that account instead of to the right account. If the person 
provided any additional information, such as the name of the intended account holder, then 
this would not affect the banks liability  it only had to send the money  to the account  
identified by the unique identifier.
I recognise that that may sound harsh,  but the reason  for that rule is that the CHAPS system  
did not allow banks  to check whether the name they had been given for the destination 
account matched  the name  actually  on that account.
As Mr M has pointed out, there are plans  to change this, but Lloyds is not responsible  for the 
fact that this did not happen in time to help Mr F. Lloyds  cannot unilaterally change  the way 
that the entire banking industry  operates.  The change had to be led by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the regulator) or by the Bank of England (which operates  the CHAPS clearing 
system).
A banks  only other duty under regulation 74 was that it must make  reasonable efforts  to 
recover the funds. Lloyds  contacted the receiving bank, but it was too late, as the money  
had already gone. I therefore accept that Lloyds complied with the rules.
Mr M hasnt  said what questions  Lloyds  staff should  have asked Mr F to establish that his 
payment instructions were valid. I think that if they had asked him if he was sure he had 
provided the correct  account details, he would have shown them  the email as proof   which, 
of course, would not have avoided the problem.
I have no doubt  that if the branch staff had warned Mr F that the email  could be fraudulent, 
then he would have  contacted his solicitor to confirm the details, and the fraud  could have 
been avoided.  But the thought may simply  not have occurred to the staff,  as they may not 
have known about this kind of fraud at the time,  or received training about it. It was not as 
well-known then as it is now. I asked Lloyds about  what procedures  its branch staff were 
trained to follow at the time. I cant share  the details of its response  with Mr F, as naturally its 
procedures are confidential, since they could  be useful to fraudsters. But having considered 
what the bank  sent me, I have seen nothing  to suggest that its branch staff did not follow the 
relevant procedures.
It follows that I am unable  to uphold this complaint. I regret  that this will come  as a bitter 
disappointment to Mr F.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN44436713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019. But if we dont hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4443671