K820x#14complaint
Mr R is a director of a company, H. On behalf of his company, he complains AXA Insurance 
UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made for an escape of water  on his buildings  insurance 
policy. Whilst the policy is in the name of H, for ease Ill refer to Mr R throughout.
background
Mr R owns an industrial unit, which he rents out. In April 2018 he was contacted by the 
neighbour of the unit to say they thought there  had been a leak in his property.
On attending the property  Mr R found  substantial damage caused  by an escape  of water. He 
also found that the tenants whod rented the property had moved out some  time ago. Its 
accepted this probably happened at the end of December 2017. In May 2018 Mr R made a 
claim for the damage and for the loss of rent hed suffered as a result of not being  able to 
rent the property  out.
AXA declined the claim as it said Mr Rs property had been unoccupied for more than 45 
days. And because it declined  the claim, it also declined to cover  any loss of rent.
Mr R complained to AXA.  He said given the weather  conditions in January 2018, it was 
almost certain any leak would have occurred then.  He said given  that was within  the first 45 
days of the property being empty, his claim should be covered.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly in declining  the claim. She said even if the 
damage had occurred within the first 45 days,  it was accepted  that the property was empty 
for longer than that. So she thought AXA could fairly rely on the exclusion. She noted that in 
October 2018 AXA accepted it would cover the claim, and then later changed its mind. But 
she didnt think it needed to pay any compensation for the inconvenience caused,  as Mr R 
wasnt in a position to carry out the repairs himself  had AXA declined the claim earlier.
Mr R didnt agree with what our investigator said. He said the claim being declined  had 
significant financial implications for him. He said he hadnt been aware that the tenant had 
left the property and hed previously shown his diligence  in informing the insurance  company 
about the property being empty  when a previous tenant had left. He also said there was 
nothing in the policy which said he had to check it regularly.
He also said under the Insurance  Act 2015, AXA should pay a proportion of the claim,  as he 
knows it would have  provided him with insurance  cover for an unoccupied  property  if hed 
told them  about  it.
As Mr R didnt  agree, the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Ive explained  why below.
Mr R has sent in lots of evidence in support of his claim. And whilst  Ive considered it all, the 
decision will only focus on what I think are the key reasons for the decision Ive reached.  
Ref: DRN43485812Under the terms of Mr Rs policy, damage resulting  from an escape of water  is not covered  
when the loss or damage has been caused  to a property which is empty.  
The definition of empty  is wholly unoccupied, mainly unoccupied or not in use by you or any 
of your tenants for more than 45 consecutive days.
Its accepted that the tenants  moved out at the end of December 2017, and the damage was 
discovered in April 2018, more than 45 days later. So the only thing for me to consider is 
whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the exclusion to decline  the claim.
Mr R has provided lots of weather information  which he says shows the leak must have 
happened in January 2018. And given that this was within the 45 days, he says the claim 
should be covered.  But I dont agree. The exclusion says damage  caused by an escape of 
water wont  be covered if the property is empty for more than 45 days,  and it was. So it is 
irrelevant when the damage occurred.  Mr R has said our website says insurers shouldnt  
decline a claim where  there  is only a technical breach that has not prejudiced the insurers 
position. I dont  think this is relevant in this case.  I say this because  even if the leak 
happened in January 2018 as Mr R says, I think its likely the resultant damage is 
significantly worse than it would have been  because  the property was empty  for more  than 
45 days. So I think AXAs position has been prejudiced as a result  of the property being 
empty. So I dont think its acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion to decline the claim.
Mr R says he was unaware the tenants had left. He said the policy says he must  notify  the 
insurer immediately he becomes aware the property was empty.  And he wasnt  aware until 
the claim was made in April 2018.  But Mr R is referring to a separate part of the policy that 
relates to changes that happen during the policy year. And AXA hasnt declined the claim 
because Mr R didnt make them aware  it was empty. Its declined  the claim by relying on the 
unoccupancy exclusion. And Im satisfied its acted  fairly in doing  so.
I accept there is nothing in the policy which requires Mr R to visit the property. And given 
how the tenancy agreement was set up, he had no reason  to believe the tenants wouldnt 
have told him about moving out. I accept  the tenants probably didnt do what  they should 
have, but this isnt something I can consider in relation to how AXA has acted.  Irrespective of 
Mr Rs agreement with his tenants, its ultimately up to Mr R to ensure he meets the terms of 
the policy. Based on his previous experience Im satisfied  he was aware there would be 
unoccupancy terms on the policy. So just because AXA didnt require him to inspect the 
property at a regular interval doesnt  mean it cant rely on the unoccupancy exclusion.   
The Insurance Act 2015 is the relevant  law in this area as Mr R has identified.  He says the 
Act is clear that when  there has been  a misrepresentation, one of the remedies is that AXA 
can proportionately reduce the claim amount. He says this hasnt been considered  by our 
service. But AXA isnt saying that Mr R misrepresented  the status of the property when the 
insurance was taken out. And this is what that section of the Insurance  Act is referring to. 
That section of the Insurance Act allows insurers to do what it would  have done  if the 
policyholder hadnt misrepresented the risk at the start of the policy year.  This is not why 
AXA declined Mr Rs claim.  AXA has declined the claim because of an exclusion on the 
policy, so the misrepresentation section of the Insurance Act isnt relevant here and I dont 
need to consider it further. I understand there are significant financial implications for Mr R in 
AXA not covering the damage. But based  on everything Ive seen Im satisfied AXA is 
entitled to rely on the exclusion it has to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN43485813Mr Rs policy  says loss of rent will only be considered if the damage claim is covered by the 
policy. And given Im satisfied it isnt, it follows that AXA doesnt need to cover the loss of 
rent incurred by Mr R.
There was a delay  in AXA reaching  a decision on the claim. It seems to me this was a 
reasonable delay given  the size of the claim and the damage that needed  to be inspected. 
So I dont  think AXA delayed things unnecessarily. But I can see that it originally told Mr R 
the claim would  be covered, subject to costs, in October 2018. It later declined  the claim 
around January  2019. I think this would have  caused Mr R some distress.  But as he is 
bringing a complaint on behalf of a business,  I cant award him compensation for this. I can 
award compensation for in any inconvenience suffered by H that AXA caused unnecessarily.  
But Mr R has said he wouldnt have  been able to carry out the repairs had AXA declined the 
claim earlier. So I dont think AXA needs to pay any compensation  for the delay  in declining 
the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf  of 
H, to accept or reject my decision before 23 September  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4348581