K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained Barclays Bank  UK Plc closed his accounts  and placed a fraud marker 
on his record.
background
On 4 July 2017 Barclays  gave Mr M immediate notice of their intention to close his accounts.  
He complained that hed not been  told why. Hed also tried to open  an account with another 
bank but found he couldnt.  He was told Barclays had lodged  a fraud-related marker on his 
record.
Barclays had been told by another of their customers that money paid into Mr Ms account  
was made  fraudulently. They  noticed  there were numerous payments of £399 made into 
Mr Ms account as well as other  credits. Barclays blocked Mr Ms accounts whilst they 
reviewed this. Barclays then withdrew  £412.08 from Mr Ms account into one of their own 
suspense accounts.  
Mr M had noticed unusual transactions when hed logged  on one day so then cancelled his 
debit card. He was then upset as Barclays wouldnt tell him what  was going  on.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service as he didnt think  Barclays  were 
helping him. He was told in August  2017  that the CIFAS marker was being removed.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. Barclays view was there was no evidence of PIN 
compromise. They didnt  think  theyd done anything  wrong in not giving back £17.68 that 
was in Mr Ms account before the fraud happened. Our investigator initially didnt think theyd 
done anything  wrong.
After reviewing the case again,  including a call between Barclays  and Mr M, she felt 
Barclays should pay him £75 for the confusion  relating to the CIFAS marker.
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and has asked  an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint. He was unable  to get a bank account and he felt this was the reason he was 
turned down for insurance as well. He was also told he wouldnt get student finance without 
a bank account so cancelled his university  place. Barclays also continued to feel theyd 
added the CIFAS marker correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. I have recently  been in touch with both Barclays and 
Mr M to get their further comments.
disputed transactions
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
that would  be specific to this type of case. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted 
fairly in closing an account because of fraud, one of the things we consider is whether the 
Ref: DRN44796282customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt  ask the bank  to do anything different.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, and what Barclays had been able to tell us. This information  has been limited.
Ive also looked  at the general usage of these accounts by Mr M. His accounts generally  ran 
low balances  and only small transfers  were ever made. This isnt surprising as it was a 
young persons  account.
Mr M told us that none of the transactions on 19 June were made by him and Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest they were. Hed lost his card. I agree  as Barclays  has pointed out  
that theres no obvious point of PIN compromise.  My role isnt to decide  how the fraud  took 
place but whether the customer authorised them. I cant  see he did.
account closure
As soon  as Barclays were  told money  that Mr M had received had been sent fraudulently,  
they felt the evidence showed he knew what had happened.  They therefore closed his 
accounts as their terms and conditions allow  them to do if someone misused their account.  
Bearing in mind what they knew  at the time  although it seems  theyd  done  this without a 
complete investigation  I can see why they took the decision to do this.
CIFAS marker
I suspect the aspect that would have concerned Mr M most was the CIFAS marker  placed 
against his name on the fraud  industry database. These  markers  normally stay for six years 
and means that he would find it difficult  to get another account  allowing more than the most 
basic activity.
So Ive looked  at whether  Barclays applied this fairly and in accordance with the best 
practice around applying  these markers.  A business cant apply a CIFAS marker because it 
simply suspects  fraud. Barclays needs  to have sufficient evidence  to back up what  its 
alleging with there being an identifiable criminal  offence. This means,  if needs  be, Barclays  
could have presented clear,  relevant  and rigorous evidence to report Mr M to the police.
Its clear Barclays  removed the CIFAS marker on 23 August 2017 after Mr M spoke to them. 
I think its unlikely theyd  have done  this if Mr M hadnt  provided enough information to show 
theyd made  an initial  error. Although Barclays dispute this I can see no other reason why 
theyd have removed  the marker.   
Barclays recently agreed to pay Mr M £75 and refund £17.68,  along  with 8% simple  interest.
Ive specifically considered whether this compensation is sufficient. The fraud  marker  was 
lodged for just over a month. It wont have  taken Mr M long to get a new account but I accept 
thered have been some immediate distress and concern at what  had happened.  Mr M has 
told us he abandoned his hope  of going  to university  but I dont think  the CIFAS marker  
alone would  have caused this problem. I base this on the experience of other young people 
who have gone  to further education and got student  finance even though  there has been  a 
CIFAS marker  loaded  against them.
However I dont think £75 is enough and I will be asking Barclays  to increase this to £150.
Ref: DRN44796283my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK Plc to:
Return the money from his ex-Barclays account  that was his;
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the time his account was closed until the 
date of settlement;  and
Pay Mr M £150 for the distress caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4479628