K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc is holding him responsible for disputed withdrawals 
from his account  and has registered  a fraud  marker  on CIFAS the national fraud database.
background
Mr A opened  an account with Santander  on 30 June 2016.  On 18 August 2016 credits of 
£14,000 were transferred  to his account. And two cash  withdrawals made  that day for 
£4,700 in a branch and for £3,587.12 at a travel  money exchange business. The money paid 
in was reported as fraudulent and was taken back from the account  leaving an overdraft. 
Santander closed  the account  and appointed debt collectors. And it reported that Mr A had 
been in receipt  of fraudulently obtained funds to CIFAS.  Mr A says he didnt make the 
withdrawals and wants the debt and the marker  removed  as it is stopping him opening  
another account. Santander said it wouldnt do so.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:
-Mr A said he had opened the account  because he was looking for a job and that his 
father sometimes sent him money. But that he didnt  know  how this money came to 
be credited to his account. 
-Mr A had told him that he kept his card and PIN in the top drawer of his cabinet  and 
that he never let anyone  else use his card. He said that post to his home  had 
sometimes gone missing but he received both these items.
-Mr A also said he only found out about this fraud when he was contacted by a debt 
collector in December 2016  as his address had been incorrectly  changed. He got in 
touch with Santander but didnt  appeal its decision until August 2017.
-The withdrawals were  made when the chip on the genuine card was read and the 
correct PIN entered. The details for the branch withdrawal recorded  that Mr As 
passport had been provided.
-As Mr A told him he had the card and PIN at home he couldnt see how a third party  
could have obtained both of these  to make the withdrawals. And he didnt think that 
the family members  he lived with (his mother and sister) could have impersonated 
him.
-He concluded  that Mr A had authorised the withdrawals. As the money  credited to 
the account wasnt his and was obtained fraudulently Santander  hadnt  made  an 
error in reporting  what happened  to CIFAS.
-Mr A in response to the first opinion  had then said that he had lost the card. Our 
adjudicator replied that he was surprised that Mr A hadnt mentioned  this before. But 
even if he had lost it that didnt  explain how someone could have obtained the card 
and then also found out the PIN and been  able to produce his passport in a branch.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that 
his address with Santander had been changed  to somewhere he never lived without him 
knowing. And only his PIN was in his top drawer, not his card.  He had lost this but because 
he didnt use the account he forgot about  it and didnt cancel it. He remained unhappy that 
Santander cant provide a copy  of the passport used in the branch  as identification and that 
were relying on someone elses word.  He maintained that he didnt carry out these  
transactions and that he shouldnt be responsible for the debt in his name.
Ref: DRN46638052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2009. And to think about 
whether Mr A authorised the payments  from his account. Thats  more  than the payments  
being authenticated but would require him to consent to them.  If he didnt  authorise  them  
then generally  Santander  wouldnt be able to hold him responsible  for them.  
I also need to consider  whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, 
Santander needs to have  more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable 
grounds to believe  that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that 
the evidence would  support this being reported to the authorities. 
the withdrawals
Based on the available evidence Im satisfied that the payments from the account were  
authenticated. The chip on the genuine  card was read and the correct PIN entered. I know  
Mr A disputes that his passport  details were seen in branch but I can see a record  made by 
Santander at the time of the withdrawal to say they were. I wouldnt have expected  it to have 
made a copy but I see no reason why it wouldnt have requested  and checked this second 
form of identification  in line with its requirements.
The issue  is whether Mr A consented  to these payments. There are a couple  of areas where  
hes been recorded as giving inconsistent  evidence about what  happened.  During the fraud 
investigation Santander noted that he told it that the money was from his father. He now 
says he doesnt  know where the money came  from. And as our adjudicators  said he told this 
service (on a written  form Ive seen)  that he had the card and PIN in his top drawer. Like the 
adjudicator Im struggling to see how he could have made a mistake  about that because the 
loss of his card was an important detail of his complaint. 
I note from Santanders  records that the card and PIN used for these withdrawals was sent 
to his correct address.  His card was expected to have reached him by 8 August 2016. 
Santander also records his address  being  changed.  That new address is where it sent the 
letter about  the fraud and the outstanding overdrawn balance on 6 September  2016. 
Although Mr A says he did move  at the end of August 2016 he says he never lived at the 
address Santander  then had. But I cant see why a fraudster would have changed  the 
address. And it doesnt have any bearing  that I can see on who was responsible  for the 
payments made in August  2016.  It clearly delayed  Santander being able to get in touch with 
Mr A about  repaying this debt.
I dont think Mr A is suggesting that it was a family member that carried out the payments 
having somehow  arranged  for the money  to be credited  to his account. And I agree that this 
is unlikely. His view is that an unknown  third party carried all this out. To find that Id need to 
think the following  were  all most likely:
-That person  was able to obtain  his card (either  when  Mr A says he lost it) or as he 
originally said from his top drawer.
-That person  was also able to obtain the PIN which  Mr A says was kept in the top 
drawer.
-Significant funds were transferred into his account and then quickly  withdrawn using 
the card and PIN. The third party was bold enough to go to a branch to take out 
Ref: DRN46638053money and was able successfully  to impersonate Mr A  and with his passport 
details based  on Santanders account  which I find credible..
-That person  for some  reason  decided to change the address Santander had 
recorded for Mr A after the fraud had taken place.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  Im able to make on the evidence. And in reaching  that 
view Ive taken into account the inconsistency in what Mr A has said to this service. 
So I find that the most likely explanation is that he consented to these withdrawals and they 
were authorised. Hes not provided any evidence to show he was entitled to this money  and 
he now says he knew nothing about the source  of it. Santander has shown that this money 
was reported as fraudulently obtained.
the CIFAS marker
Santander says that it applied  the CIFAS marker  because Mr A received fraudulent  funds 
into his account.  So Ive looked  at whether  Santander was fair to apply the marker, based  on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have  carried out checks of sufficient depth  to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that Santander  needs  to have enough information to make  a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe  fraud  or financial crime has been  committed, rather than mere  suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Santander has provided,  Im 
satisfied that Santander  had sufficient  evidence for the CIFAS  marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account  
-He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control  of who had the 
benefit of this money.
-Santander had grounds to believe  that Mr A had used  fraudulently  obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In light of my findings I dont have a basis to require  Santander to take any further  action. I 
consider that Mr A is fairly responsible for this debt and so hell need to discuss his plans for 
repayment with Santander.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4663805