K820x#14Complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Millennium Insurance Company Limited  unfairly 
cancelled its commercial property insurance policy following  a claim.
S is represented in this complaint by Mr F, so Ill refer to him directly in my decision.
All references to Millennium include their agents.
Background
Mr H bought a policy  on behalf of S in May 2018.  He completed a quote  through  a broker  
and purchased the policy with Millennium.
In June 2018, Mr F made a claim to Millennium on behalf of S. The claim related to a break  
in at the property  which  S rented, and a fire which started a few days  later. The fire caused  
significant damage. 
Millennium reviewed Ss claim  and appointed  a surveyor  to assess  the damage. It then 
appointed a forensic scientist to conduct  further investigations, and a restoration contractor 
to get a quote for the repairs.
As a result of these investigations, Millennium  reviewed the underwriting terms of the policy. 
It said that S didnt  have  adequate security  measures  in place at the premises,  in line with 
the requirements of the policy.  These were inadequate internal locks, an unacceptable alarm 
system with no-one on site, and inadequate locks  on the first-floor  windows.
Millennium said that had S disclosed the security  arrangements in place, it would have 
declined to provide cover.  Millennium voided  Ss policy back  to the start date and returned 
the premiums. It rejected  Ss claim for the theft and fire damage.
Mr F on behalf  of S disagreed with Millenniums  decision to reject the claim and referred  Ss 
complaint to our service. Mr F said the broker had previously insured the property for the 
owner and was familiar  with the building. 
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She 
thought the business  had avoided the policy and returned the premiums fairly.  She found  the 
evidence showed  Ss security arrangements  didnt  meet the minimum standard to be 
accepted for the insurance. In particular, she said S had selected a higher level of security 
alarm on the application than was present at the premises. And she was persuaded by the 
evidence from Millennium  that it wouldnt have accepted  the application if the correct 
information had been provided.  
Ref: DRN46062702Mr F didnt  agree with our investigators  findings.  In summary, he said:
-The broker should have shown due diligence and ensured  everything was correct;  it 
had insured the property for years  and had at no point checked whether the property 
was properly compliant;
-The insurance company should have carried out an investigation into the property 
and not simply taken the premium every year;
-The property had been occupied throughout the insurance period and was therefore  
secure;
-The electricity was disconnected by the electricity supplier and the police took away 
the CCTV equipment,  therefore putting the property  at risk.
Mr F asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this decision Ill be considering the 
action of Millennium as the insurer of the policy, and not the actions  of the broker.
When S bought  the policy, it had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act)  
to make a fair presentation of the risk to Millennium. This means:
a)disclosure  of every material circumstance which the insured ought  to know, or
b)failing  that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make  further  enquiries for the purpose  of revealing 
those material circumstances
The Act also states that fair representation need  not be contained  in only one document or 
oral presentation.
For Millennium to take any action,  it needs  to show that S breached its duty of fair 
presentation, and this had an effect  on the policy. In other words  this means that Millennium 
wouldnt have sold S the policy or would have done so on different terms. And Millenniums  
response should depend on whether the breach was deliberate or reckless, or not.
Millennium has provided evidence of its investigations, including the review  of the 
underwriting guidelines for the policy. It says there are three areas  of Ss premises which  
dont meet the minimum standards  of the contract  which I set out above. 
Mr F has said the broker should have checked everything was correct on the application for 
a quote. Ultimately it was down to Mr F on behalf of S to check  everything on the Statement 
of Fact and correct any information that wasnt right. Mr F on behalf  of S needed to make  a 
fair presentation of risk, the documents were provided for him to check, and these 
documents were  clear.
Ive looked at the Statement of Fact and there is a list of requirements S needed to agree to 
in order to submit a quote for cover. Millennium  has also provided screenshots of its 
application process, which show that a quote cannot be generated unless the questions  
about the security  levels are answered  correctly. 
Ref: DRN46062703The statement  of fact includes  a section for minimum security requirements. Amongst other 
things, it states Central  Station  Redcare  Alarm or the Insured Permanently  Lives  on the 
Premises. I think the requirements are clearly set out in the Statement of Fact and therefore  
are things that Millennium wanted to know about. I can also see that under the additional 
details for the quotation it says, Approved Central Station Digital  Communicator Paknet 
Alarm Installed and Operational.  
Mr F on behalf  of S didnt  let Millennium  know that the alarm system on the premises didnt 
meet the requirements set out in the statement  of facts. And he didnt disclose that some  of 
the locks in the premises didnt meet the minimum-security requirements  either.  This is 
something it is most likely  Mr F would have known,  and it was his duty to make  sure he 
provided this as a fair presentation of the risk. As Mr F didnt do this, Millennium  were  unable 
to accurately assess the risk and make  an informed decision on whether or not to accept 
that risk.
Millennium has provided evidence to show that it would not have offered cover under any 
circumstances had the correct presentation of risk been provided.  
Therefore I am persuaded that Millennium  has demonstrated it wouldnt have sold the policy 
to S at all if it had made a correct presentation of the risk. Mr F has also said the broker  
previously insured the property for the owner for years previously and was familiar with the 
building. But each  time the policy renewed,  S formed a new contract with the insurer. And 
that means it was Ss responsibility (each  time) to answer the questions correctly  and 
provide a fair presentation  of the risk.
Mr F has said that Millennium should have investigated the property  and not simply taken 
the premium each year. But I disagree.  I think the Act is clear that the responsibility  for 
ensuring the information is correct falls to S. And I dont think it would  have been  either  fair, 
reasonable, or proportionate for Millennium to do this on Ss behalf.
Ive considered Mr Fs comments about the fact that the property had always  been occupied  
by tenants, and a member  of the management, so it would have been adequate  insurance 
for the policy to be valid. But I havent  seen sufficient evidence  to be persuaded that the 
insured did permanently live on the premises, either in a way that wouldve  acted  as a 
deterrent to a break in or be sufficient  to negate the need for a central alarm system. So I still 
think the premises needed a central  alarm  system to meet the requirements of the policy.
Ive also considered Mr Fs comments about  the electricity supply being disconnected after 
the first break-in, and the police removing the CCTV equipment.  Mr F has said this put the 
property at risk. I cant hold Millennium responsible  for the actions of the electricity company 
or the police.  And had the property been  fitted with a central  alarm  system as stated in the 
requirements, the alarm  would have a battery back up in place to ensure it worked  normally  
when the power  was turned off. 
Having reviewed everything, I am satisfied Millennium wouldnt have offered the insurance 
had a fair presentation of risk been provided. 
Ref: DRN46062704Ultimately S selected a higher  level of security than was installed at the premises. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Millennium to conclude  the breach of 
risk from S was not a reckless or deliberate omission. So in line with the remedies available  
to Millennium under  the Act, I think it has acted fairly in avoiding  the policy  and returning the 
premiums S paid. This means  Millennium can turn down the claim as there was no policy  in 
force at the time of the event. So I wont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4606270