K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  paid to Mr 
and Mrs C in respect  of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). Mr and Mrs C have 
also complained  about the length  of time it took Lloyds  to deal with their complaint
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. That decision  is attached  and forms part of my final decision.  I asked the parties 
to provide me with any further  comments by 2 March 2019. I am grateful to both for their 
swift responses, which were received well before that deadline. 
Lloyds told us that it accepted my provisional view. Mr and Mrs C also indicated  they 
accepted it. However,  they told us they hadnt cashed the cheque for £10,635.56  in respect 
of mis-sold PPI. They  asked me to direct  Lloyds to reissue that cheque. I asked our 
adjudicator to make some  further  enquiries  and Lloyds accepts that the cheque was not 
cashed by Mr and Mrs C. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.  With that in mind, I uphold the complaint in the terms set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
However, as I said above, Mr and Mrs C told us that they hadnt  cashed the cheque that 
Lloyds issued to them. So Lloyds will need to reissue that cheque. And it will need to 
recalculate the 8% interest in respect of the £5,279.42 mis-sold PPI up to the date that the 
redress is paid to Mr and Mrs C. What this means  in practice  is that Mr and Mrs C will 
receive more for the mis-sold PPI because Lloyds will owe them some more interest. 
putting things right 
Lloyds must:  
Repay to Mr and Mrs C £5279.42 for the mis-sold PPI. It must also calculate and pay 
8% simple interest  a year on that amount from the date the loan was settled to the 
date the redress  is paid;
Repay to Mr and Mrs C the £184.07 they paid to close  their loan account in or around  
September 2006. Simple interest should be added to this payment at the rate of 8% a 
year from the date Mr and Mrs C made  this payment until the date they get it back; 
Pay Mr and Mrs C £400 in recognition of the inconvenience they were put to in 
pursuing this complaint.  If it has already  paid £300 as recommended  by our 
adjudicator, it can take that amount off the amount it now owes them . 
Ref: DRN45026322my final decision
Ive upheld this complaint  about Lloyds Bank PLC and I require it to comply with the above 
putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
This is a complaint about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  paid to Mr and Mrs 
C in respect of mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI).  Mr and Mrs C have also complained 
about the length of time it took Lloyds to deal with their complaint. 
Ref: DRN45026323background
In April 2002,  Mr and Mrs C took out a personal loan for £25,000 with Lloyds. At the same time, they 
were sold a single premium PPI policy for £5,167.31,  which meant they had to borrow  extra on top of 
their loan to pay for the insurance.  
The term of the loan was 60 months, but Mr and Mrs C told us they intended to repay the borrowing 
after a few months. They  told us Lloyds said theyd  get a refund for the PPI policy for the time they 
didnt use it. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs C repaid £29,791.22 in August 2002.  They  say this was the early 
redemption figure given to them by Lloyds. But that figure was slightly short  of the amount needed to 
pay the loan back. And so the account stayed open and interest  was charged.  In September  2006,  
the outstanding balance was £184.07,  which Mr and Mrs C repaid and the account was closed.    
Mr and Mrs C didnt receive a PPI refund and I can see that over the years,  theyd contacted Lloyds to 
try and get this money  back.  In 2018 and in response to a complaint Mr and Mrs C brought to us, 
Lloyds decided the PPI was mis-sold. They offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £10,635.14 comprising:  
£5,279.42 for the cost of the PPI premiums and the extra interest they paid while the loan ran; 
and 
£6,695.17 which was 8% simple interest to compensate them  for being  out of pocket. Lloyds 
then had to deduct 20% from that interest for tax. So the total interest they offered to pay was 
£5,356.14. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept Lloyds offer. They said it should  have paid them compound interest at 
8%, rather than simple interest. They also wanted Lloyds  to refund the additional £184.07 theyd paid 
in 2006. They said they thought they were owed compensation of £17,394.56. It had taken Lloyds  
nearly 20 years to resolve their complaint and so they thought Lloyds  should pay them not less than 
£20,000. 
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint. She thought the way Lloyds had calculated the 
compensation was fair. But she also thought that Lloyds  should pay Mr and Mrs C £300 to recognise 
the inconvenience  because of its delays handling the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators view.  The matter has been passed  to me to make a 
final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Provisionally, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why below. 
The parties  are already  in agreement that PPI was mis-sold. So I dont need to look at how the cover 
was sold by Lloyds. Im looking at whether what Lloyds did to settle the complaint was fair. 
 
The amount of compensation paid to Mr and Mrs C.
When calculating how much it should repay Mr and Mrs C for the mis-sold  PPI, Id expect Lloyds to do 
a number of things.  They  should pay Mr and Mrs C the difference  between  what it cost them to pay off 
the loan and what it would  have  cost them to pay off the loan without PPI. And it would need to work 
out and pay the difference between what Mr and Mrs C paid each month on the loan and what they 
would have paid without the PPI. 
Ref: DRN45026324From the calculations  Lloyds sent us, I think it did this. I can see that the cost of the initial premium 
was £5,167.31.  And Lloyds calculated that it owed Mr and Mrs C £5,279.42 for the extra  Mr and Mrs 
C had paid towards their loan because of PPI. I think that is right. 
As wed also expect,  Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs C 8% simple interest in respect of that compensation. 
But Mr and Mrs C want Lloyds to compound the interest.  I dont think that would be fair in the 
circumstances of this case.  
I agree with Mr and Mrs C that they have been deprived of the opportunity to use the money  from the 
mis-sold PPI over the years. I think  8% simple  interest is fair compensation  for that lost opportunity.  It 
reflects the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority. The purpose of compensation  is to put Mr 
and Mrs C back into the position theyd be in if PPI hadnt been mis-sold  to them.  And I dont think 
compounding the interest would do that. Im not proposing to ask Lloyds to do anything more  on this 
point. 
The 2006 payment of £184.07
In or around  August 2002, Mr and Mrs C told us Lloyds said they would need to pay £29,791.22  to 
clear their loan in full. However, that amount was just short of the balance  outstanding. And so the 
account stayed open and interest continued to accrue. In 2006,  Mr and Mrs C paid £184.07 to close 
the account.  
I think  its likely that Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs C an inaccurate settlement figure. I say this because  I 
dont think Mr and Mrs C would  have  paid such a significant amount  off their loan if they didnt intend 
to repay it in full. And I cant  see why Mr and Mrs C would  have paid off that precise  figure  unless 
theyd been told that was what they needed to do. So as I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs C did what  
Lloyds told them to do, I dont think they should  have  had to pay that extra £184.07 in 2006 to close 
their account.  
Im provisionally  minded  to require Lloyds to repay that £184.07 to Mr and Mrs C and require  it to pay 
8% simple interest on that amount from the date Mr and Mrs C paid it until the date they get it back.
The way Lloyds handled Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
The complaint Mr and Mrs C initially  put to Lloyds  was about  the amount of the PPI refund theyd  
received. And I can see that no action was taken to reimburse them  for that money. They didnt  
receive a substantive response until our adjudicator  intervened and Lloyds  then decided the PPI 
policy was mis-sold. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs C made some efforts over the years to chase their refund. I dont think  I can 
reasonably say they were  consistently  chasing  the matter  for 16 years. Even so, it certainly  shouldnt 
have taken Lloyds so long to sort this matter  out. But because of the delay, Mr and Mrs C have 
received substantially  more compensation in interest than they would have done if Lloyds had dealt 
with this matter at the right time. 
Mr and Mrs C took issue with the £300 recommended by our adjudicator. They said that this wasnt 
enough to compensate them  because they hadnt been able to use the money they spent on their PPI 
premium over the years. But the 8% simple interest was to compensate them for that lost opportunity.  
Having said that, given the delay and the misinformation provided to Mr and Mrs C, Im currently 
minded to tell Lloyds to pay £400 to recognise  the inconvenience Mr and Mrs C were  put to in 
pursuing their complaint. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C wanted Lloyds to pay them considerably more  and that my decision  may 
well come as a disappointment to them.  But based on what Ive seen so far, Im  satisfied that this 
would be a fair outcome. 
Ref: DRN45026325putting things  right 
Provisionally, I am intending to say Lloyds  must: 
Repay to Mr and Mrs C the £184.07  they paid to close  their loan account in or around 
September 2006. Simple interest should be added to this payment at the rate of 8% from the 
date Mr and Mrs C made this payment until the day they get it back; and
Pay Mr and Mrs C £400 in recognition of the inconvenience they were  put to in pursuing this 
complaint. If it has already paid £300  as recommended by our adjudicator, it can take that 
amount off from the amount  it now owes them. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information that I receive, Im intending to partially uphold  the complaint.  I  
require Lloyds  Bank  PLC to comply with the above putting things right  section.
 I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence  or comments they wish me to consider  by 2 
March 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4502632