K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003 alongside  a mortgage. Miss P says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Nationwide has given  me a copy of the signed  mortgage application  from the time of the 
sale. This had a separate section for PPI that showed Miss P requested  PPI to cover her 
monthly repayments. On the same day, Miss P signed a declaration  confirming her decision 
to take out the PPI. Following this, Nationwide sent Miss P a mortgage offer.  This included a 
section about  PPI that confirmed what the monthly premium would be after the 12 month  
free period  had ended.  After considering everything  available to me, I think Nationwide made 
it clear that Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss P got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. 
Miss P wouldve received  six months of full pay followed by six months of half pay if she was 
sick. And shes said she wouldve received significant redundancy pay in the unlikely event 
she was made redundant. Though she hasnt been  able to tell me how much this would be. 
Ive thought about this carefully  in comparison  to the PPI policy. And I still think  she couldve 
found the PPI useful.  I say this because the policy couldve  covered her for up to 12 months  
per claim if she was too ill to work, had an accident or was made  redundant. And that 
wouldve been in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay she was entitled to from her 
employer. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
I appreciate Miss P has also said she had a separate accident  and sickness  policy which  ran 
from 1988 to around 2005. Unfortunately Miss P no longer has any paperwork about  the 
policy so its not possible to know the details  of the cover. Because  of this, I cant  know if the 
separate policy couldve affected  Miss Ps ability to claim on the PPI policy.  So its not clear if 
it wouldve  affected Miss Ps decision to take out the PPI policy.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN46534752I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4653475