K820x#14complaint
Mr W brings a complaint on behalf of B, a limited company. Mr W is unhappy 
HSBC Bank  Plc returned payments from his account, and gave him misleading information  
about his eligibility  for an overdraft.
background
Mr W has a business account  with HSBC. In September 2016, Mr W started  receiving text 
messages from HSBC when his account went overdrawn. Sometime  after this Mr W raised  
concerns about  these  messages. HSBC  sent a final response letter  addressing his concerns 
in January 2017. And in this, HSBC explained  the messages were sent to help prevent  
customers having to pay informal overdraft fees and debit interest.  It also explained the type 
of payments that would  be paid if an informal overdraft was applied to his business account.
In March 2017, Mr W received a text message from HSBC saying an informal overdraft was 
in place. And he understood this to mean  that transactions he had made would be honoured. 
However, the following day he became aware  that a number of transactions had been 
returned. And one of those transactions was cheque to one of his suppliers. Mr W was 
unhappy this had happened, so called HSBC  to find out why.
Mr W told HSBC  he was unhappy about the payments being returned. And explained it was 
becoming increasingly difficult to pay money  into his business  account given the number of 
branch closures.  HSBCs adviser  apologised for the text message leading Mr W to believe 
his payments would  be honoured. They agreed  to refund the returned payment fees added 
to his account, and gave  him £100 for the distress he had experienced. They  also wrote a 
letter of explanation Mr W could  send to his supplier.
Shortly after this, Mr W successfully applied for a £500 formal overdraft that would be 
available for a month. He then received a letter from his supplier saying his credit  facility with 
them had been removed  despite receiving the letter  from his bank. Mr W was concerned 
he wouldnt  be able to effectively run his business without the credit facility  from his supplier. 
So he contacted HSBC to find out if his formal overdraft could be increased to £1,500. He 
also wanted this overdraft to be in place  for a longer  term.
Before going through  the application, Mr W said he spoke to a number of HSBC  advisers.  
And they gave him differing information about the likelihood of his application being 
accepted. But the last adviser Mr W spoke to said that overall  Mr Ws account looked fine. 
But ultimately hed have to go through the application to find out if the increased overdraft 
would be accepted. Mr W went through  the application, but it was declined.
Mr W was unhappy because one of the reasons given for the decline was that hes had 
recent returned payments. So he complained to HSBC. HSBC  looked into Mr Ws complaint, 
and explained  its decision to decline his overdraft application was correct. Mr W came  to our 
service as he remained unhappy with HSBC returning his payments  and giving him 
misleading information about his eligibility for an overdraft.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He explained that he didnt 
think HSBC acted unfairly by returning the payments because Mr Ws account had 
insufficient funds  at the time. He was also satisfied HSBCs offer of £100 for the misleading 
text message was fair.
Ref: DRN47183052Mr W disagreed  with our investigator, and confirmed again he wanted us to look into the 
handling of his overdraft application. So his complaint was passed to me to look into.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 September 2019. And in this I explained I wasnt 
minded to say HSBC  needed to do anything more  to put things right after Mr W had 
payments returned.  I also looked into Mr Ws experience  when applying  for a formal  
overdraft. And I didnt consider HSBC acted unfairly  when it didnt agree to offer one when 
Mr W applied  in early 2017.
Both HSBC  and Mr W were given the opportunity  to provide any further  points and/or 
evidence they wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision. I didnt receive 
anything further  from either party. So, my decision  remains unchanged.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W. So Ill explain my reasoning 
below. 
informal overdraft
In March 2017 Mr W received a text message from HSBC  that said:
Informal overdraft agreed to cover  payment(s). Bring  your a/c into credit to avoid further
£8 daily fees & 19.5% interest
Given the wording of this text message,  I can understand why an HSBC customer  would  
think payments from their account would be honoured. But I also need to consider what 
Mr W would  have known about the way his account worked.
To do this, I looked at the terms and conditions  of his business  account. Thats because they 
detail how Mr W and HSBC are expected  to manage  his business account. And Ive seen 
they explain HSBC  will assume  a customer wants an informal overdraft if they go overdrawn 
 and they dont have  a formal overdraft in place.  But if HSBCs not prepared  to do this, then 
it wont process the payments.
Its not in dispute  that Mr W made use of the informal overdraft before March  2017.  And 
given the content of the text message, I can understand why he may have believed his 
payments would be honoured. However, I also cant ignore the fact Mr W had received  
information from HSBC  about these text messages and informal overdrafts when  it wrote  to 
him in January 2017.
HSBCs January 2017 letter explained that only direct debits, ATM withdrawals and visa 
debit transactions  would be paid from an informal overdraft.  This means  Mr W should have 
known the cheque to his supplier was unlikely to be honoured when he received the text 
message in March.  So I dont  consider  its fair to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Ws supplier 
removing his credit facility after his cheque was returned.
Ref: DRN47183053Having said that, one of the transactions was a direct debit. So, I dont think its fair Mr W 
received a text message saying an informal overdraft was agreed, and then this payment 
was returned.  HSBC already refunded the returned  payment fees and gave Mr W £100 in 
recognition of the confusion it had caused.  And it did so the same day Mr W complained.  
I think that was the right thing to do  and a fair amount given how quickly HSBC  tried to 
resolve the problem.  
Formal overdraft application
Mr W is unhappy he was given conflicting information about  how likely it was that his formal 
overdraft application  would be approved. Hes also unhappy returned payments were  one of 
the reasons his application wasnt successful.
HSBC has sent me the available calls from the days Mr W discussed applying for a £1,500  
overdraft. From what Ive heard in these recordings, and what  Mr W has told us, Im satisfied 
Mr W did receive mixed  messages from HSBCs advisers. However,  no one is disputing that 
Mr W was told that hed need to complete an application to find out if his overdraft could be 
increased. And it isnt uncommon for a customer to have to go through an application to 
determine if their eligible  for lending.
HSBC told Mr W they consider a number  of things before granting an overdraft. And they 
are:
information provided during the application;
information HSBC  already  held for Mr W; and
information HSBC  is given by an external credit reference agency.
HSBC sent us a copy of the application  record. And Im satisfied the information stated 
above was considered before HSBC  declined Mr Ws application. Theres  nothing to suggest  
Mr Ws application was treated any differently to any other customer of HSBCs. So Im not 
persuaded HSBCs  decision not to increase Mr Ws overdraft was unfair.
Mr W sent us the letter  he received from HSBC confirming  his overdraft wouldnt be 
increased. And in this it said One of our current policy  rules  is The bank is not prepared to 
agree lending facilities where payments  have  recently been  returned due to lack of funds. 
I understand he disagrees with HSBCs decision  to return his payments. But, as mentioned 
above, I dont  think HSBC acted unfairly  when it returned the cheque  payment for Mr Ws 
supplier. Also, it was Mr Fs responsibility  to ensure he had enough  funds in his account for 
any payments he planned  to make.  And HSBCs January 2017 letter reminded Mr W that he 
could use internet and telephone banking to monitor his account.
It wouldnt have been helpful to have  received  conflicting information. But before Mr W 
applied for the overdraft  he would have been aware  there was a possibility his application 
may not be accepted. While I understand Mr W was disappointed he couldnt increase his 
overdraft limit, I dont consider HSBC treated him unfairly.     
Ref: DRN47183054my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4718305