K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss P says Capital  One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case. Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.  
Ill explain  why.
Capital One had to make it clear that the policy was optional  and Miss P had to agree to take 
it out. Miss P has said it wasnt made clear the policy was optional. Ive been given a copy  of 
the credit  card application form that was completed at the time and on the form there  is a 
section about  PPI. In this section there  are boxes to tick to accept or decline the cover and I 
can see that a tick has been  placed  in the yes box. If Miss P didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have ticked the no box. Miss P has also signed the overall form which suggests 
she agreed with everything  that had been  entered.
In addition, the charge  for PPI would have shown as a separate  entry.  If Miss P didnt know  
what this extra charge was for, or hadnt  agreed  to take out the PPI, I think  she would have 
questioned at the time.
So, based on everything Ive seen and been  told, I think Capital One made  it clear  that the 
policy was optional and that Miss P agreed  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it.
Both parties  agree that Capital One didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss P got the information she 
needed to decide for herself  if it was right for her.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application form 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss P about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Miss P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN43847012Ive thought about everything Miss P has said - including what she has said about not 
needing the policy as she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer and she had some 
savings. But this policy would have paid out in addition  to her sick pay and potentially for 
longer. And it would also have provided  cover  if she had lost her job. By having  this policy it 
would have enabled her to protect her savings  for another purpose or use them  to help cover 
other essential living expenses. So these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Miss P any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384701