K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains because U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) are asking  her to pay an 
outstanding premium for her pet insurance policy.
background 
Miss D held a pet insurance policy provided by UKI.
Sadly, Miss Ds pet died and she contacted UKI to let them know.  UKI said there was one 
more premium payment  to make so Miss D should leave the direct debit in place and UKI 
would cancel it afterwards. 
However the direct debit  was cancelled before the final premium was paid.  Miss D then 
telephoned UKI, who said they could arrange  a payment plan for her. UKI sent the debt on to 
a third party company,  who wrote  to Miss D asking  her to contact them  to discuss repayment  
methods.
When Miss D didnt  contact the third party company,  they sent Miss D a number of other  
letters about  debt recovery action. Miss D says they also telephoned her. 
Unhappy, Miss D complained to UKI. UKI said they hadnt cancelled the direct  debit  for the 
final premium  payment and the debt was passed to a third party because Miss D had asked 
to set up a payment plan. 
Miss D brought  her complaint to our service.  Our investigator thought Miss D should pay the 
outstanding premium but she didnt think UKI had properly explained why she needed to do 
this. So she recommended that UKI should pay £100 compensation to Miss D.
UKI didnt  agree but offered to pay Miss D £50, which our investigator  then said she thought  
was fair. But Miss D didnt  accept  this and doesnt think she should  have  to pay the 
outstanding premium. 
The case  has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ds policy  started on the 6th of the month, with the monthly premium falling due 14 days 
later, on the 20th of the month.  
Miss D notified UKI that her pet had sadly passed  away on the 11th of the month.  This meant 
Miss D had benefitted from insurance  cover for some  of that month,  so a premium for the 
month would  still be due on the 20th, and the policy would be cancelled on the 5th day of the 
following month. 
Based on the notes  Ive seen in UKIs file, Miss D was told UKI would cancel the policy,  was 
told when the policy would end and when the final premium payment was due. 
Ref: DRN42791582UKI have  said the direct  debit was cancelled at the banks side.  I understand Miss D says 
her bank told her UKI cancelled it, but the bank cant provide any evidence  of this. 
Regardless of who cancelled the direct  debit, Miss D hasnt paid UKI for the final month  of 
her policy.  Even if UKI made an error, Miss D still owes UKI this money. 
I understand Miss D feels strongly about the matter but UKI is entitled  to payment of one 
months premium from her, so I wont be asking UKI to write  off the outstanding debt. 
While it might have  been  helpful if UKI had explained to Miss D in clearer terms what  the 
process for arranging a payment plan was, I dont think UKI have  acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by asking a third party to manage the debt in line with their usual procedures.  
The first letter Miss D received from the third party company asked her to contact them to 
discuss a repayment  programme which she could afford and maintain. I appreciate  Miss D 
then received further letters referring to possible debt collection action but this was because 
the company hadnt heard  from or been  able to get in touch with Miss D. UKI have confirmed 
the matter will not have affected Miss Ds credit file. 
If Miss D wishes to arrange a payment plan for the outstanding premium  then shell  need to 
contact the third party company to discuss this. 
UKI has offered  to pay Miss D £50 compensation to acknowledge they didnt tell her the 
management of the debt would be passed  on to a third party. Ive considered the impact  of 
UKIs actions on Miss D and the distress and inconvenience  she experienced as a result.  I 
think UKIs offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and I wont  be recommending  
that they should pay any further compensation to Miss D. 
my final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance  Limiteds  offer to pay Miss D £50 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be telling them  to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279158