K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Santander UK Plcs  response to his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr G used his credit  card supplied by Santander to book a holiday. The holiday included a 
hotel stay and tickets for entrance to a tourist attraction.  Mr G told us he was led to believe 
by the tourist  attraction  operator (the supplier) that he would be able to enter certain areas  of 
the tourist attraction  free of charge. But when he turned  up and tried to use his tickets  for this 
purpose he was told he had to pay extra for this. Mr G declined to pay this extra charge. 
Mr G did though use the hotel and go to the tourist attraction albeit he did not go to every 
part of it that hed wanted to go to. 
Mr Gs position was that the supplier had provided  incorrect information  about his booking.  
That incorrect information he said was provided on the suppliers website and in a phone call 
he had with the supplier. He suggested he relied on that information  and made a loss as a 
result. He told us he would not have booked the holiday if he had known that the tickets 
would not let him have free entry into the disputed area. He wanted a full refund from 
Santander.
In addition Mr G thought Santander had breached  data protection  law by sharing his details  
with the supplier when he asked them not to do this. Mr G was also dissatisfied  with 
Santanders customer service. In particular he suggested it had told him he needed to raise  
his claim with the supplier  and try and sort it out with it before coming to Santander. In fact 
that just wasnt necessary.
Santander didnt  agree to give him a full refund. It pointed out hed had part of what hed 
paid for so a full refund wasnt a fair outcome in any case. But it also didnt agree that he had 
been given incorrect  information. According to it, the website was clear about what was and 
wasnt covered in the holiday booking.  And it didnt agree it had done anything wrong in how 
it went about dealing  with him.
Dissatisfied, Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator took a look at Mr Gs complaint. He didnt think it was fair and reasonable to 
uphold it. He took on board that he had to look at relevant law when looking at the complaint. 
He agreed that Section 75 was relevant law. He also agreed that the general  effect  of 
Section 75 is that if Mr G has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  the 
supplier he can also bring that claim against Santander provided certain conditions are met. 
But when he looked at all the relevant circumstances  he did not think  there  had been  a 
misrepresentation. That is he didnt agree there had a false statement  of fact that Mr G relied  
on when contracting  with the supplier which led to him making a loss.
It appears that Santander accepted our investigators conclusions but Mr G didnt. In 
summary he repeated  he had been misled by the advertising on the suppliers website. He 
said the terms and conditions that our investigator had mentioned  were  not available  to him 
at the time he made the booking. Further, the holiday he booked  was much  more expensive 
than other  similar holidays  he could have  booked at different times of the year with the 
supplier. As a result this led him to think he was going to get something over and above the 
Ref: DRN40665212usual offering that is entrance to the areas  where  usually  there  is an additional charge. He 
repeated had he known this wasnt going to be the case he would never  have booked.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was Mr G most likely  given inaccurate  information  about his holiday which he relied on?
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the information I have  available  to me.
Mr G is relying  on the rights he says he has under Section 75. I think  its important to set out 
my role here. In considering a complaint  about  a financial services provider, in this case  
Santander Im not determining  the outcome of a claim that Mr G might have under Section 
75. Rather Im deciding  whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Gs complaint, to do 
that I take account of relevant law. Relevant law here includes Section 75. 
It is correct to say that under Section 75 if Mr G has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier he can also bring that claim against Santander. The 
questions Ive got to look at here, are what was he told about his booking  by the supplier 
prior to booking?  Was this information incorrect?  If yes, did he rely on it and experience  a 
loss as a result?  
Im aware Mr G also wanted us to listen to the call he had with the supplier. But I think  that 
call is irrelevant. I say this because  it is clear from the information  I have seen that Mr G did 
not have that call until after he had booked the holiday. So what  was said in the call cant 
have led him to make the booking.
Mr G booked his holiday online and he tells us he relied on what  the website said about it. 
We have asked to see the relevant website pages  as they would have been at the time Mr G 
made his booking. I dont  think it likely in the circumstances that the supplier has provided us 
with inaccurate information about what information was on the website  at this time. In 
particular the website has a section about  what your package  includes  and the terms and 
conditions. 
According to the suppliers records  the  what your package  includes  section sets out that 
customers will need to pay extra to get access to the area in question.  The terms and 
conditions say access to the area this is not included.  I dont  know why Mr G didnt see this 
information. He says the terms  and conditions were not available to him at the time. But on 
balance, in the circumstances, I think this information was likely to have been  present on the 
website even if Mr G didnt see it.
Further, Mr G makes points about  his booking being  more expensive than other bookings at 
different times of the year.  He tells us that he booked during a special promotional period  
and because of this and the extra money he was paying he was led to believe that he would 
get access to the areas that he would  normally have to pay for. I dont doubt he thought this 
was the case  but for the reasons Ive set out above I dont think  the information the supplier 
provided meant it was reasonable  for Mr G to make this assumption.
Ref: DRN40665213For all these reasons I dont agree Mr G was most likely given inaccurate  information  about 
his holiday. It follows  it is not fair and reasonable to uphold this part of his complaint.
was Santander  wrong  to share Mr Gs details with the supplier?
The Information Commissioners  Office  is the regulator for data protection issues.  If Mr G 
thinks there has been a breach of relevant data protection law he might want to contact it.
However, I can look at whether it was inappropriate for Santander  to share his details with 
the supplier when he asked it not to. 
Mr G raised a complaint  about something  he said the supplier had done. Santander had to 
investigate this. I dont  think it was unreasonable on that basis for Santander to tell the 
supplier about  Mr G, its hard to see how it could  have  looked properly into the issues  
without doing  this. 
For all these reasons I dont agree that Santander  acted incorrectly  here.
customer service
I can see at first Santander did suggest  that Mr G talk directly  to the supplier who it said was 
prepared to help.  But Santander ought reasonably  to have known Mr G didnt have to do 
this, he was entitled to come to it alone for a solution.
That said,  Santander did subsequently and fairly quickly then look into things and gave Mr G 
its final response outlining  why it did not think it had to take further action.
It appears Mr G found this frustrating. But the thrust of his complaint is about not getting a 
full refund rather than about Santanders approach to his claim and complaint. 
For all of these reasons, Im not going  to ask Santander to do anything further here.
why it would not be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to give Mr G a full refund
Finally, even if I had thought it fair and reasonable to uphold  this complaint, which I do not, I 
would not have asked Santander to give Mr G all his money back. This is because that 
would wrongly  imply that no service  at all had been received.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020 .
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4066521