K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out to cover a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1983 and the MPPI  started in September 1991. Santander says Mr and 
Mrs M applied for the MPPI in one of its branches.
The mortgage was held jointly in Mr and Mrs Ss names. But the MPPI only covered Mr M.
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for the same reason as our adjudicator.  Ill 
explain it.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs M but I dont think it was right for them.  
Mr M was self-employed. And the policy included conditions which made  it harder for self-
employed people  to claim unemployment benefit.
As theres  understandably limited  information available about  this sale, our adjudicator 
explained to Santander that hed referred  to a policy document that we have on file  dated a 
June 1991. The policy document  explains that in order to make an unemployment  claim a 
self-employed person would need  to register as unemployed, provide evidence they had 
notified the Inland Revenue and filed closing accounts, and provide evidence  that they had 
registered as financially  insolvent. The adjudicator thought these terms were overly 
burdensome, and so he said its unlikely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve taken the policy if 
theyd known that.  
Santander provided a leaflet dated  July 1991 which shows different wording. Santander 
highlighted that Mr M would in fact have been able to make a claim easily, according  to the 
wording in that leaflet.
I dont disagree that, on the face of it, the wording in the document that Santander has 
provided does  make  it seem as though  its easier  for self-employed  people  to make an 
unemployment claim. But as weve explained to Santander, the document  it has provided  
and relied on  isnt a full policy document. Its a very brief summary  document. 
As Santander should know,  the policy document would be used in assessing any potential 
claims. Not a summary leaflet. And without seeing a later policy  document than the one Ive 
Ref: DRN46757232seen from June 1991, Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve likely been able to make  a 
claim without  facing  the onerous  terms Ive mentioned previously.
I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought the policy  if Santander had made clear it wasnt 
right for Mr M. So, I think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of what Santander did wrong. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they gets it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I require Santander 
UK Plc to put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4675723