K820x#14complaint
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance plc (St 
Andrews) has accepted responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews Insurance 
plc has also agreed  it is responsible for the complaint. To make  things easier  Ive referred  to 
St Andrews  throughout my assessment.
Mr and Mrs Q say St Andrews mis-sold them  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Q had a mortgage  with their lender since 1989. In 2003 they took out a policy 
that covered that mortgage for life and critical illness  cover.  In 2007 they added PPI cover  to 
that policy and paid a monthly amount for it. The policy  provided  cover for Mr and Mrs Q if 
they couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Q disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Qs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Qs complaint and Ill explain why.
I think St Andrews made it clear  that Mr and Mrs Q didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. In saying this Ive thought  about  how Mr and Mrs Q had held the 
mortgage for many years and the policy  for several years before  the PPI was added to it. So 
it seems unlikely they would have felt they had to take it out to keep a mortgage they already 
had. And Id noted the welcome  letter dated  1 November 2007 that confirms the PPI had 
been added  to the policy. So, I think it more  likely  that Mr and Mrs Q agreed to the PPI and 
knew this was something they didnt have to take out, even if they cant remember that now.  
St Andrews  said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs Q. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for them.  I dont know  how that was 
achieved at the time, but looking at Mr Vs circumstances  in 2007 I think such a 
recommendation wouldve been  reasonable. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs Q were eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a claim. 
Mr and Mrs Q said their initial sick pay was good. But it dropped significantly after six 
months and Mr and Mrs Q also told us they had no other means they could have relied 
on if anything went wrong. The PPI provided  cover for up to 12 months in the event that 
Mr and Mrs Q were too ill to work  for an extended period, or if they lost their jobs. So, 
considering all of this, and the potentially serious consequences  of defaulting on a loan 
secured on their home, I think Mr and Mrs Q couldve found  the policy useful.
Ref: DRN48430132The policy cost appears to have been  comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable. 
I dont know what information Mr and Mrs Q were  given  about the policy  during the phone 
call, so its possible they didnt get everything  they needed. But for the same  reasons given 
above that made me think the policy was suitable  for them, I dont think more  or better 
information wouldve  made a difference to their decision  to buy it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Qs complaint. And I make  no 
award against St Andrews Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4843013