K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  alongside a credit card. 
background
Miss L applied for a credit card in 1990.  At the same  time she was sold PPI. 
Miss L complained that that PPI policy had been  mis-sold.  Allianz disagreed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint because:
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Miss L completed  and signed in 1990. On 
the application form there is a section for PPI. It broadly sets out what the insurance  
provides and sets out the cost of the insurance  £0.64 per £100 of the outstanding  balance. I 
can see Miss L has ticked to confirm she wanted to take PPI.
Overall I think  the PPI was presented as optional  and Miss L should have reasonably known  
she had a choice  about whether or not to take out PPI. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Allianz recommended the PPI to Miss L, so I think  its unlikely it 
did. So it didnt have  to check  if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss L got 
the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But overall Im satisfied that Miss L chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - 
so it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. 
Miss L has told us that she received three to six months sick pay from her employer if she 
was unable to work  because  of an accident or sickness.  So Miss L says she didnt need the 
PPI. But the PPI would have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly  balance  at the date of a 
successful claim  for accident,  sickness or unemployment per month. And this would have 
continued to be paid until either  Miss L returned to work or the initial  balance  was cleared. 
The policy also had life cover. So I think it provided  a useful benefit and I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN41513572Ive taken into account Miss Ls comments in response to our adjudicators opinion, including 
what she has said about the PPI being  an extra cost that she wouldnt have agreed  to. But, 
as explained above, she chose to take out PPI. The section for PPI on the application form 
broadly sets out what the insurance  provided and set out the cost of the insurance. So this 
point doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4151357