K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that esure Insurance Limited  has unreasonably refused to deal with his 
claim for the theft of his car under his motor policy.
background
Mr Ds car was stolen on 15 February 2019 following the theft of the key during a break  in. It 
was recovered  but without  the key. Sadly, it was stolen again  on 24 February  2019  and 
wasnt recovered this time. So Mr D made a claim to esure. 
Esure said it wouldnt take his claim forward, as it decided he hadnt taken proper care of his 
car by changing the locks or adding security devices in the time period between the two 
thefts.
Mr D didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  
esure had done  anything  wrong. Mr D disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill now explain  why.
I do understand and appreciate why Mr D believes esure hasnt been very compassionate 
about his circumstances, which have been most  unfortunate in having his car stolen  twice  in 
quick succession. However my role and that of this service is to assess whether esure did 
anything wrong  bearing in mind the policy terms and conditions.  And I dont think  it did. 
Mr D doesnt think its fair to decide his claim on the balance of probability. However, it is for 
Mr D to prove his claim, rather than for esure. And the policy  conditions  say the following 
under the General Conditions section:
5. Taking care of your car
     You must:
take reasonable steps to protect  and secure your car and its contents  from 
loss or damage.

Here, its fairly certain that the first time Mr Ds car was stolen it was stolen with its key given 
the break in at the property where  it was parked. It also doesnt  appear that when the car 
was recovered,  that the key was with the car. Further,  Mr D confirmed there was no theft 
related damage  on the ground such as broken glass  etc., when his car was stolen the 
second time. 
In my view, that reasonably points to the fact that the thief retained  the key and sadly stole  
Mr Ds car again. In the absence of any other evidence,  I consider this was a reasonable 
assumption for esure  to make in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN43270502Mr D said understandably, that he simply hadnt got around to changing the locks and was 
also concerned  about  the cost of doing so. His car was stolen for the second time only a few 
days later.  
But the above policy condition requires Mr D to take reasonable to keep his car safe. With 
one of the keys missing  and the fact that Mr D hadnt been  able to sort out changing the 
locks in the relatively short period, his car sadly remained at risk of being stolen again. 
Which then unfortunately happened. Insurers  are required  to cover the risks detailed in the 
policy but only if the policyholder can show he also adhered to the terms and conditions of 
the policy also.
As the investigator  said, had Mr D fitted a steering lock or blocked his car in with other cars, 
then that would have shown he had taken reasonable steps  to safeguard  his car, following 
the first theft. And had esure still declined to deal with his claim in those circumstances, I 
would have required it to do so. But without Mr D taking any steps  to safeguard  his car 
following the first theft given the missing key, I cant fairly say esure  was unreasonable  to 
refuse to deal with his claim.
my final decision
I do understand and appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my decision,  but for these  
reasons, its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4327050