K821x#15complaint
Mrs E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs E took out in 2000. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in person.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I was planning  to uphold this complaint. Mrs E 
replied to say she was satisfied with this. FICL  didnt  respond. As such this final decision is 
in line with what I said in my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint because: I dont think FICL  gave Mrs E clear  
enough information about the policy. I say this because the credit  agreement didnt clearly 
set out the costs and benefits  of the policy. I think this wouldve been important to Mrs E 
because she had more  than 12 months  sick pay. So she couldve met her credit card 
repayments for a while without the policy.
While Mrs E has been unable to provide additional  evidence to support what she says about 
her sick pay, I think this is understandable. She started her employment in 1979, working in 
the public  sector,  and retired some years ago. She says former colleagues who were off sick 
for many years continued to be paid until they returned to work.
Mrs E has been consistent in describing  her sick pay benefits  as being for more  than 12 
months. And I think  this is plausible  given when she started her employment,  where  she 
worked and her long service (over 20 years) at the point the PPI was sold.  FICL  provided her 
with insufficient  information about the costs and benefits of the policy  at the time of sale. And 
if it had provided clearer  information, I dont think Mrs E wouldve bought the policy. So, I 
think Mrs E has lost out because of what FICL  did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs E in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs E would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove  the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest  charged  on those  premiums. It should also remove any charges 
that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs E owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN48134262If Mrs E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs E would have owed  
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs E 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs E paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed FICL something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL  should tell Mrs E what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Mrs E a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4813426