K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2007, a broker acting as an appointed representative of L&G arranged  a mortgage for 
Mr H. The mortgage had a term of 30 years. At the same time,  it sold him a PPI policy  to 
protect his repayments  if he couldnt work  due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr H didnt agree, so the case  was 
passed to me to review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Hs case.
I can see that Mr H asked  L&G to cancel the PPI policy in 2017. It seems  L&G delayed  doing 
so and has now (following  our involvement) offered him compensation for that matter, which 
hes now accepted.  As such, I see no reason to address that issue  in detail in this decision.  
Having gone on to consider Mr Hs mis-sale complaint Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
L&G should  have made it clear  to Mr H that the PPI was optional and got his agreement  
before adding it. Mr H has said he wasnt aware the PPI had been added  which  isnt 
consistent with him also saying  as he did when he first complained to us  that he was told 
by the adviser  he had to have it. Its also not entirely  consistent  with what he told us over the 
phone in September 2018  that he wanted  PPI, albeit  he wanted a cheaper policy than the 
one he was sold.
Im aware the (unsigned)  letter  of June 2007 summarising L&Gs assessment of Mr Hs 
demands and needs  contains  a discrepancy. It suggests, at one stage, that he rejected the 
recommendation to take PPI due to affordability before going on to explain hed instead 
opted to take PPI as it was less expensive.  
Thats an error but one which needs  to be seen in the light of other references in the letter to 
Mr H indicating he wanted to protect his mortgage  payments in the event of disability and 
unemployment. Ive also viewed the discrepancy  in light of the summary of Mr Hs chosen 
solution towards the end of the letter, which  included  that hed chosen to take PPI with a 
monthly premium of £18.37 and providing a monthly benefit  of £429  which was how the 
PPI was eventually  set up.  
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from the time of the sale but, overall,  
Ive no reason to believe  Mr H didnt agree to take PPI or didnt know  he had a choice in 
doing so. I can understand if he doesnt remember that now,  but that doesnt mean he wasnt  
aware hed taken PPI had the time.
Ref: DRN48686372The evidence indicates L&G recommended the policy to Mr H. So, as well as having to give him 
enough information for him to make  an informed choice about  taking it, L&G should have looked  
into whether it was right for him. Ultimately, I think its recommendation was right for him in any 
case.
I say that because, from what Mr H has told us about his circumstances in 2007, he appears to 
have been eligible for the PPI and I cant see that it was unaffordable  for him. I think it unlikely hed 
have been affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the cover either. I realise  Mr H had 
suffered an injury before 2007  and that the policy excluded  claims for pre-existing medical  
conditions. But it seems  he was no longer  receiving  treatment  regarding  the injury by 2007  and that 
it hadnt caused him to take any time off work after it first occurred around  three  years  earlier. So I 
dont think this meant the PPI was unsuitable  for him.
Mr H says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer  and had no need for PPI. But 
the PPI benefits  would have paid out on top of that pay and for longer at up to 12 months  per 
claim. It covered him for unemployment  too. Although Mr H says he had savings to fall back on the 
PPI would have  allowed  him to retain what hed built up or used that to cover his other  living costs 
at what could have  been a difficult time if he wasnt working.
Since Mr Hs borrowing was secured against his home, I think  its likely he would have valued the 
extra protection the PPI provided.
Its possible L&G didnt point out everything  it should  have  about  the PPI but I dont  find that 
Mr H lost out because  of that. I say that because, for the same reasons I think  the PPI was 
right for Mr H, I dont think better information  would have stopped him from buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint. But Legal  & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  will pay Mr H compensation for maladministration  as 
per its offer,  if it hasnt  already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4868637