K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Ford Retail  Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs M. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2010 to cover  a hire purchase  agreement.  
Ford Retail  sold Mrs M the policy at the same time as the hire purchase agreement. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs M has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Ford Retail  made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose 
to take it. The PPI is presented as something you can apply for separately from the 
credit application.  
Mrs M has said she was made to feel she was more likely to get credit  if she took 
PPI. But it wouldnt be fair for me to decide  the adviser acted unfairly, in the way they 
presented the PPI, unless I had stronger evidence of what  exactly  was said.  
Ford Retail recommended the PPI to Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have 
helped cover payments for a period longer than Mrs Ms employer sick pay and other 
resources lasted.  It would  have  meant Mrs M wouldnt need to fall back on other  
resources so soon.  So the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
I think the cost of the PPI was set out clearly enough.
Its possible some of the information  Ford Retail gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But I dont think,  in her circumstances, full information  
about benefits and restrictions would have  affected whether she took the PPI. And it 
doesnt look like shed  have  been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. 
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint, for the reasons  given above. 
Ref: DRN47065832Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4706583