K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mrs R in 
September 2012. The loan was for £35 due to be repaid  in six instalments. The highest  
instalment payment was £167.50.  
Our adjudicator thought that Lending Stream did enough before lending to Mrs R and so 
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs R disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mrs R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive considered the checks Lending Stream says it carried out. It says it checked Mrs Rs 
credit score which it recorded as 744. It also says it asked Mrs R about her monthly  income 
 Mrs R declared her monthly  income as £1058. Lending Stream says it also asked Mrs R 
about her monthly  expenditure  and she declared £360. Mrs R has said that at the time of her 
application Lending Stream only asked her about her income and rent/mortgage  expense 
and this is why it appeared she had a high amount of disposable income. And that had it 
carried out better checks on her expenses, it wouldnt have lent to her.
This service has asked Lending  Stream  for evidence to show what information  it asked  
Mrs R at the time of her application.  But it has said that because the loan was taken out 
more than six years ago, it doesnt  have evidence to show  the exact  questions  it asked her 
when she applied for the loan.
I think that given  Mrs Rs declared income  and the highest repayment for this loan, it would 
have been reasonable  for Lending Stream to check her income, normal living expenses like 
rent/mortgage, food,  transport, utilities etc and also any regular credit  commitments she had 
at the time.
From the information provided, I cant say that Lending Stream asked Mrs R about  her 
monthly expenses as I think it should have done  and as Mrs R hasnt told this service what  
her actual living expenses  were at the time,  I cant say what  Lending Stream would have 
found had it asked Mrs R the relevant questions. On that basis,  I cant  conclude  that Lending 
Stream wouldve found that Mrs R couldnt  afford this loan.
Ref: DRN48026182Mrs R has said that she was borrowing from other payday lenders at the time and while  
I dont doubt this, I think given the early stage of the lending relationship, it wouldnt have 
been proportionate for Lending  Stream to check her other short  term loan commitments. And 
so I wouldnt have  expected Lending  Stream  to necessarily have been  aware  that she had 
short term credit  commitments with other  lenders at this stage.
As Mrs R only borrowed  one loan from Lending Stream,  there wasnt  a pattern of reliance on 
these types of loans that shouldve concerned Lending Stream.
While it is unclear if Lending Stream asked Mrs R all the questions that I think  it should have 
before lending to her, based  on the available information, I cant  conclude  Lending  Stream  
irresponsibly lent to her.
If theres still a balance outstanding on the loan, Id remind Lending  Stream  about its duty to 
treat Mrs R positively.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint and make  no award against 
Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802618