K821x#15complaint
Mrs Cs unhappy Coventry Building  Society (Coventry) didnt assist her when she got in 
touch about potentially going into financial difficulties when her interest  rate on her mortgage 
was due to increase. 
background
Mrs C took a mortgage with Coventry in September 2014 jointly with her partner at the time.  
In 2016 Mrs C says she got in touch with Coventry over the phone  and in writing a number of 
times to explain that shed  now be making the mortgage repayments alone  as shed lost 
contact with the joint account holder. She was concerned she wouldnt be able to keep up 
repayments when  the interest  rate was due to increase in September  that year. Mrs C says 
she didnt get a response and later received letters saying her interest rate was increasing.  
In September  2016, Mrs C spoke to an advisor at Coventry  weve  been given the recording 
of this call. During  this call, Mrs C was told Coventry wouldnt be able to consider reduced 
repayments or amending the mortgage agreement without the consent of the joint mortgage 
holder as they might be unhappy with any changes and it could affect their credit file. The 
advisor offered  to look at her income and expenditure to see whether there were any other 
payments that she could  reduce, other than her mortgage repayments.
Mrs Cs mortgage repayments increased  by around £140 in October  2016  and around  
another £30 in November 2017.
At the end of November 2017,  Mrs C made a complaint to Coventry as she didnt think  it was 
doing enough to support her. She explained  she had to borrow  money from others  to meet  
her increased mortgage repayments which had put her in difficulties. 
In response to her complaint, Coventry agreed  to review and transfer Mrs Cs mortgage  
product to one with a lower interest rate. It said this was outside its usual policy and it had 
arranged this as an exception. It agreed  with Mrs C that it couldve made more of an effort to 
return her calls. And it offered her £150  for the inconvenience and stress shed been caused. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with this amount as she thought Coventry  should  pay her the difference  
between the increased mortgage  repayments shed been making since around  the end of 
September 2016 until the product changed to a lower rate following  her complaint. 
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint and said Coventry  should  increase its offer by 
£100. She thought it shouldve explored Mrs Cs income and expenditure and set up a 
payment plan. 
Coventry disagreed  and gave further information to show Mrs C had savings which she 
couldve relied on to make the mortgage payments. So it said even if it had reviewed her 
financial circumstances earlier, it wouldnt have offered  her any concessions.  Following this 
information, our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed  with our 
investigators opinion  so the complaint was passed  to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld  in summary because:
Ref: DRN47374112I didnt think Coventry  treated Mrs C fairly and I thought  it shouldve  offered the product 
transfer in September 2016. Had it done  so, I didnt think Mrs C wouldve needed to pay 
the higher rate of interest  or rely on others  to help her make her repayments. 
I thought Mrs C was trying to manage  her finances sensibly and avoid putting her home 
at risk by contacting  Coventry before the repayments increased. And I thought  it 
shouldve considered her individual  circumstances  when deciding if it could help.
Having listened  to both sides in this case,  it seemed  to me Coventry was unwilling to 
offer Mrs C assistance  as it was concerned  it was at risk of the joint mortgage holder 
making a complaint  at a later date. And I didnt  think this approach  was fair. 
The joint mortgage  holder was also responsible for keeping  up the repayments. And from 
what Id seen, I didnt  think Coventry wouldve been putting them in a worst position by 
helping Mrs C avoid a payment shortfall on the mortgage.
Transferring the mortgage product would mean it would  be subject to an early repayment 
charge (ERC). But I thought Coventrys  decision not to assist Mrs C couldve made  
things more difficult for both account holders  as, without a new product, it was likely the 
repayments wouldve  fallen into arrears  or an arrangement wouldve been needed. 
As Mrs C was in a position to afford the repayments  just not the increased  amount  I 
thought it wouldve  been appropriate  for Coventry to offer her a new product in 
September 2016.
I understood Coventry said it thought  Mrs C had other means  savings  to rely on to 
keep up her mortgage repayments  which wouldve been highlighted if it evaluated her 
income and expenditure during or before September 2016.  But I thought Coventry  
couldve offered her the option  to transfer  her mortgage product to one with a lower  
interest rate in September 2016  despite  her other means. And if it had done so, I thought 
its more likely she wouldve agreed. 
Based  on what Mrs C had said at the time,  I thought it was very unlikely  she expected 
the joint account holder to return.  And I thought Coventry shouldve considered what 
shed explained  about her circumstances  more seriously. 
To put things right in this case, I thought it was fair for Coventry to refund the difference 
between the amount Mrs C paid towards  the mortgage from September 2016 and the 
amount she wouldve paid if Coventry had offered her the same  product transfer  at that time.  
I also thought  Coventry  should add interest  at 8% simple interest  per annum from the date 
Mrs C made  each of these payments until the date of settlement.* 
I thought Coventrys  offer of £150  to compensate Mrs C for not doing more  to respond to her 
when she first got in touch  to ask for help was fair. But I thought shed been put through  a 
great deal of stress and worry by thinking  she wouldnt be able to keep up the repayments. 
And I understood it mustve been difficult  for her having  to rely on others  to meet  her 
repayments for over a year.  So in addition to the £150 compensation Coventry offered for 
the delays and inconvenience shed  experienced, I thought it should  also pay a further £200 
for the upset she was caused by how it handled  things.  
Ref: DRN47374113I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Mrs C 
said she had no further comments  for me to consider.  Coventry let me know  it agreed with 
my provisional decision but it gave  me further  information about both the product it wouldve 
recommended to Mrs C in September 2016   and the product she actually transferred to in 
2017. Its based this on the closest like-for-like product with a two year fixed  term, no product 
fee and the same maximum  loan to value amount. 
Coventrys said generally, its rates were higher in September  2016  and came  down by 
December 2017.  Its said the interest rate in September 2016  wouldve been fixed  at 2.15% 
for two years  compared  to the rate in December 2017 which was 1.65%. And its given me a 
copy of its mortgage  product  range  to support this. Its also said if Mrs C had been 
transferred to a new product in September  2016,  the fixed rate period wouldve ended  in 
September 2018, so its given me the likely interest rate it wouldve changed to as 1.95% - 
as this was the rate available at that time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive looked  at the information  Coventrys given me about the products available  
in September  2016. And Im satisfied its more likely she wouldve been recommended  and 
transferred to the product  its highlighted to me. This provided a lower rate of interest  than 
the rate she was actually on until December 2017.
It might normally be suitable to ask Coventry to rework Mrs Cs mortgage as if the likely 
product was applied from September  2016.  But as the initial fixed rate term wouldve ended 
in September  2018, doing this would mean  Mrs C would need to apply for a new mortgage  
now. So I dont think that would be the appropriate way to put things  right in this case   and 
overall I see no reason  to change my conclusions set out in my provisional decision.  
For the same reasons  set out above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
Coventry Building Society to:
Work  out the amount  Mrs C paid towards  her mortgage from September 2016. And 
refund the difference between that amount and what she wouldve paid if Coventry 
had transferred her to the mortgage  product at a rate of 2.15% from September  2016 
until September 2018 and the product at 1.95% from then until the date of this 
decision;
add simple annual  interest of 8% running  from the date of each overpayment  to the 
date of refund*;
pay Mrs C £350, including the £150 its already offered
Ref: DRN47374114Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
*If Coventry considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate  
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN4737411