K822xComplaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) registered  two default notices on his 
credit file and with the impact this has had on him.
Background 
Mr L has two credit  card accounts with Barclays. He experienced some problems making 
minimum payments. In April 2018 Barclays wrote  to Mr L and said he had until 5 June to 
make minimum payments for his accounts to avoid default notices being registered. Mr L 
paid off arrears at the end of May, but Barclays still registered two defaults in early June. In 
late August and early  September  Mr L made  two mortgage applications.  He says these were 
declined because of the defaults. Mr L complained  to Barclays. He was told the defaults had 
been removed,  but this wasnt the case and the defaults werent removed until October
2018.
Mr L says Barclays actions have  had a significant impact  on him, as he was renovating a 
property to rent out and was unable  to borrow to complete the work as his mortgage 
applications were  declined. Mr L says he was able to borrow  additional  funds on 10 January
2019 and tenants moved  in to the property on 1 March 2019. The tenants pay £850  a month 
in rent. Mr L says that had the default notices not been registered hed have been able to 
complete renovations and rent his property from September 2018. As a result,  hes asked 
Barclays to pay him compensation for loss of rent from September  2018  to March 2019.  He 
calculates this to be seven months at £850  per month, totalling £6,800. In addition, Mr L 
would like Barclays to compensate him for his time, stress and inconvenience.
Barclays accept incorrect information was recorded on Mr Ls credit  file and remained there 
for longer than it should have been.  They paid Mr L a total of £350  compensation to reflect 
this and asked  Mr L to provide evidence of any loss of earnings for them to consider. In
October 2018 Barclays removed the defaults  but told Mr L late payment markers would 
remain and may affect his ability to get credit.
Mr L wasnt happy with the compensation offered by Barclays and brought a complaint to 
this service. The investigator who considered his complaint didnt ask Barclays to do 
anything more. He considered Mr L hadnt provided  evidence  to show hed have been  able 
to rent out his property from September 2018  had the defaults  not been  registered.  He felt 
there was no evidence Mr L would have got additional borrowing straight away,  renovated  
the property and rented it out so quickly.
Mr L was unhappy  with the investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision, 
so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision on 12 March  2020. I 
said, 
Theres  no doubt Barclays shouldnt have registered the defaults and doing so has had an
impact on Mr L. What  I need to decide is whether the compensation they have  offered  is
reasonable given the evidence available.
Mr L thinks Barclays should  pay him for seven months loss of rent from September 2018.
However, Mr L says he rented his property from 1 March 2019, so the maximum rental
period I can look at is six months (September,  October, November, December, January and
February).
Ref: DRN47326582Mr L has provided the following:
Evidence to show two mortgage  applications  were declined in late July and early  
September 2018, the first because of the default status and the second  because of 
adverse data on Mr Ls credit file.
A letter from a letting agent dated  4 September 2018 suggesting  Mr L revisits  when  
work is completed and a rent of £875 per month  once the work  was complete.
A quote for work to be completed at the rental property  dated 18 September 2018.
Invoices dated  30 January  and 4 February  2019 for work at the rental property.
Mr L first contacted Barclays about the defaults in June 2018.  At this stage he was told it
would take around  eight  weeks  to remove the default notices. Ive looked  in to what
happened and understand that Barclays send data to credit reference agencies  on a
particular day each  month. They first sent the data on this day in July 2018. The following
month Barclays manually reviewed credit reference  agency data to ensure theyd been
updated correctly  and again  advised  credit reference agencies  there  was no default in
August. A further review  showed not all of the credit reference agencies  had correctly
updated their records, so Barclays submitted further  updates in September.  Barclays have
been less clear about why defaults were  removed again in October  2018.
Having considered the chronology of events I consider Barclays are responsible for the data
being recorded incorrectly and for the consequences of this for the period it should have
taken to remove the entries. Barclays say it usually takes six to eight weeks  and told Mr L it
would take around  eight  weeks.  But I cant hold Barclays responsible  for any acts or
omissions by the different credit  reference  agencies involved. In deciding this complaint its
not my role to look in to which other parties  may have  been  responsible  for default notices
appearing on Mr Ls files for longer than Id expect. I can only look at how Barclays  treated
Mr L. Im satisfied  Barclays asked for the defaults  to be removed and had processes in place
to review whether  this had happened.
I also dont consider Mr L has done  enough to prove that as a result of Barclays  actions hes
lost out on six months of rental income. I say this because Im not persuaded that in the
absence of the default notices Mr L would have been able to rent out his property from
September 2018. On 4 September 2018 the letting agent Mr L met to provide a market
appraisal said extensive refurbishment  was not expected to finish  until February 2019. This
indicates to me that at that stage a lot of work  still needed to be completed  before the
property could be rented.  Ive taken in to account  the fact that mortgage  applications  take
time and late payment  markers were  properly recorded by Barclays,  which could also
influence the outcome  of a mortgage application. Im also mindful of the fact that although
Mr L says hes lost £875 a month in rent this figure doesnt take in to account  the fact that if
he borrowed  sooner  hed have to pay the mortgage  earlier. Finally, although Mr L says he
obtained further funds on 10 January 2019, his property wasnt rented out until March. So
Im not persuaded Mr L could have secured funds, completed work  and found tenants by
September 2018, had the defaults not been  registered.
I consider Barclays should compensate Mr L for the consequences of the default notices for
an eight week period, taking in to account this caused  delay  in completing renovations and
the stress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr L. Mr L made numerous  calls to Barclays  and
wasnt always given accurate information,  which must have been frustrating and time-
consuming.
Due to the passage of time Barclays havent  been  able to give me recordings of
all of Mr Ls calls, but Ive listened  to the ones he made  in September  2018  and understand
Ref: DRN47326583how frustrated Mr L was by that stage.  I have provisionally decided Barclays  should pay Mr L
an additional  £150 to reflect the inconvenience,  stress and delay.
Mr L says the two rejected mortgage applications  cost him £350 including  valuations. I asked
for evidence  of this loss, but Mr L hasnt been  able to provide any. Without  this evidence I
cant properly require  Barclays to reimburse him.
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision,  but Mr L did not. He said:
His claim for loss of earnings for seven  months is fair. Mr L also added seven months 
council tax. 
Mr L questioned  why I said Barclays were responsible for losses over an eight-week 
period when it took them  five months  to remove the defaults.
He could have  rented his property from September without the defaults.
Barclays provided incorrect  information  to him and werent able to provide recordings 
of all of his calls with them  demonstrating this and offering him compensation.
Mr L asked me to provide evidence of how I calculated the payment I was awarding,  
evidence he couldnt get a mortgage  because of late payment markers and evidence 
to show he couldnt have completed all of the renovations by September 2018.
Mr L said theres evidence that once the defaults were  removed,  he was able to 
borrow funds, once  he had funds work  was completed and of the time it took him to 
get tenants.  
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  and for the same reasons. Ill summarise them 
and respond to Mr Ls comments below. 
I explained in my provisional decision  it usually  takes six to eight weeks  to remove default 
notices so Barclays should be responsible for the consequences of them  for eight weeks. In 
Mr Ls case it took longer  than this, but not because of Barclays  action or inaction.  Its not 
my role to consider which  other  parties  were at fault, and I cant hold Barclays  responsible  
for the errors  of another party. Barclays asked for the defaults to be removed and had 
processes in place  to check this had happened. When  Barclays established that some credit 
reference agencies  hadnt removed the defaults it took steps  to ensure things were put right.  
So, I still consider  that Barclays should be responsible for the consequences of the notices  
for an eight-week period. 
Given the passage  of time Barclays no longer  have  recordings of all of Mr Ls calls.  I accept 
Mr L was given incorrect information in some calls though and that compensation was 
discussed, so I dont consider the unavailability of the calls has had a material impact  on my 
decision.
In light of certain of Mr Ls comments, I think its possible  hes not fully understood our role in 
dealing with complaints. We receive  and consider complaints about the financial 
organisations we cover,  and  where appropriate   set out our thoughts on how best matters 
should be resolved.  When  doing  so, we explain our reasons for the conclusions we have  
reached.
Ref: DRN47326584But we arent  under  any obligation to provide evidence to the parties in the way Mr L is 
seeking. Rather, Ive considered whether the available evidence  is sufficiently  persuasive  
that I should make a financial  award  for the loss hes specified.  Having  considered all hes 
said and provided,  Im not satisfied that it is.
Ive concluded  that, on balance, the evidence isnt sufficiently persuasive that, but for the 
defaults, Mr L would have been  able to rent out his property by September  2018. The 
defaults were added in early  June 2018, so Mr L is saying hed have secured funds, 
completed renovation  work and found tenants  for the property in just under three months.  
But following  the removal of the defaults in October  2018 Mr L said he secured funds on 10 
January 2019,  completed work  by the end of February and had tenants in from the beginning 
of March. This is a five-month period.  This means that the evidence available  doesnt  
support Mr Ls claim hed have been able to rent the property from September 2018 were  it 
not for the defaults.
Even if Mr L had been able to rent his property from September 2018,  his loss would not be 
the amount of rent hed have received from then until he was actually able to rent it in March 
2019. This is because  Mr L would have started  to make mortgage payments sooner, so they 
would have to be deducted from the rent he received to calculate his loss.
Taking in to account all the circumstances of this case Im satisfied  a total award  of £500 is 
the fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr L an additional £150 
compensation (given that it has already paid £350); in other words, £500  in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4732658