K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  Inter Partner  Assistance SAs (IPAs) decision to turn down 
their travel insurance claim.  
background
Following surgery on Mrs Hs foot, Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday. Before their trip started, 
Mrs H developed a swollen leg and a rash on both legs. She was advised not to travel,  and 
so they cancelled their trip. They made  a cancellation claim under  their travel insurance 
policy. 
IPA turned  down the claim.  It said the policy excluded cancellation claims arising from 
circumstances known  before booking a trip. IPA thought the conditions that led to the 
cancellation resulted from Mrs Hs initial foot surgery, and therefore concluded their claim fell 
under the exclusion. However, IPA accepted  thered been delays in handling the claim, and 
it paid Mr and Mrs H £50 compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  the medical 
evidence supported that the problems Mrs H experienced (which led to the cancellation) 
were complications of her surgery that took place before the trip was booked.  He therefore 
thought IPA was entitled to rely on the exclusion.  
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our investigators  findings, so the matter has been referred to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
You will not be covered  in respect  of the following:
1) Cancellation claims arising  directly or indirectly from circumstances known to You prior to 
booking Your Trip.
Mr and Mrs H booked their trip on 26 June 2018, and were due to travel on 15 August 2018. 
I need to consider whether the cancellation  of their trip arose from circumstances they were 
aware of prior to 26 June 2018. 
In Mr and Mrs Hs claim form, they told IPA they had to cancel their trip because  Mrs Hs foot 
surgery had given rise to a constellation of medical conditions.  However,  Mr and Mrs H now 
say that wasnt the case, and the cancellation  of their trip wasnt  related to Mrs Hs foot 
surgery. 
Ive therefore  considered  the medical  evidence. 
The foot surgery took place on 11 June.
Ref: DRN40765822Mrs H went to see Mr D (consultant orthopaedic surgeon) on 23 July. He said X-rays 
showed a good healing  response to Mrs Hs post-operative fracture. 
On 8 August,  Mrs H saw Mr D again.  He said her left leg had been swelling for the last ten 
days. He wanted to rule out deep vein thrombosis (DVT), so he arranged for an ultrasound 
scan to be carried out the following day. 
On 9 August,  Mr D saw Mrs H after her scan. He said the scan  showed no sign of DVT. But 
that meant  he had no good explanation  for her lower  leg swelling. He referred her to a 
vascular surgeon, and said he would see her when  she got back  from her travels.  
On 14 August, Mrs H saw a consultant and vascular  surgeon (who Ill call Mr T). He said 
Mrs H presented with a swollen left leg and varicose  veins  consistent with cellulitis  
secondary to an operation  performed  nine weeks earlier. He said she also had deep vein 
and superficial vein reflux of the left leg. Mr T said that under medical advice she was unable 
to travel as planned on 15 August. 
In a letter to Mrs Hs GP, Mr T explained  that subsequent to Mrs Hs foot surgery  she had 
developed swelling  and redness in the left leg, and because of this shed been having great 
difficulty recovering from her surgery. He confirmed  the problems with Mrs Hs left leg were  
consistent with cellulitis secondary to her foot surgery. He said this may well have been 
compounded by her deep vein and superficial vein reflux on the left hand side.  
I understand Mr and Mrs H pushed their flights back from 15 August to 20 August.
Mrs H then experienced blistering on her legs, and saw a consultant dermatologist  for this. 
The dermatologist said that Mrs H shouldnt travel. This is what  led to the cancellation of 
their trip. 
At the end of August,  Mrs H saw a consultant plastic surgeon.  He said it was a complicated 
case because Mrs H had had foot surgery complicated by a fracture  and subsequently had a 
swollen leg, thought potentially to be DVT. However, this was ruled  out and it was thought 
she had cellulitis. The plastic surgeon didnt think the rash on Mrs Hs legs looked  typical  for 
that either.  A biopsy of a blister was taken. 
Mr and Mrs H say the biopsy showed  the blistering had been caused by a rare auto-immune 
skin condition, but I havent seen  any medical evidence which confirms this. 
In January 2019, Mr D provided some further  clarification. He said that Mrs H presented to 
him on 25 June 2018  having undergone  surgery on her foot. He said she informed him of her 
plans to travel and he explained to her this was ambitious, but not something that should be 
avoided at all costs.  He said he told her that for medical reasons she could travel,  but with 
some risks attached. Mr D then said that when he later saw Mrs H on 8 August she had a 
massively swollen leg and he referred her to a vascular surgeon.  He also said she had 
sustained a fracture of her foot at the operation site and he advised  her that travel was not 
advised on medical grounds. 
Based on Mr Ds more recent  explanation, it appears he thought Mrs H shouldnt  travel as of 
8 August because of the fracture  to her foot (and perhaps because of her swollen leg). 
However, this isnt supported by the contemporaneous evidence. I say that because  when 
Mr D saw Mrs H on 8 and 9 August, he ruled out DVT, and said he would see Mrs H when 
Ref: DRN40765823she came  back  from her travels (despite knowing of both her swollen leg and foot fracture  at 
this time). Im therefore satisfied that Mr D thought  Mrs H was able to travel.
However, Mrs H then saw Mr T about  her swollen leg. He thought this was consistent with 
cellulitis secondary to her foot operation  (compounded by deep  vein and superficial vein 
reflux). He said that under medical advice  she was unable to travel  on 15 August. It therefore 
seems Mrs Hs swollen leg did prevent her from travelling.
After Mr and Mrs H made their cancellation  claim, Mrs Hs GP completed  a medical 
certificate. This form asked  the GP to state the medical condition  that had given rise to the 
claim. The GP said Mrs H had foot surgery on 11 June, and then developed unexpected 
post-operative complications  swollen legs, and a post-operative rash on her legs.  
conclusions
Given that Mr T described Mrs Hs swollen leg as cellulitis secondary to her foot surgery, Im 
satisfied from this that it seems he thought her swollen leg had developed from her foot 
surgery. This is supported  by the GP evidence which described Mrs Hs swollen leg as a 
post-operative complication. Mr T said Mrs H was unable to travel on 15 August. 
Mr and Mrs H say they pushed their flight back to 20 August and that Mr T did give them 
clearance to travel on this date,  however  I havent seen confirmation of this from Mr T. 
Its accepted by Mr and Mrs H that the blistering rash on Mrs Hs legs meant they couldnt 
travel. They  say the biopsy showed  the rash was the result of a rare auto-immune skin 
condition. I havent  seen any evidence of this. The information from Mrs Hs GP is that the 
rash on Mrs Hs legs was a post-operative  complication. 
Mr and Mrs H have provided  a more recent statement from Mrs Hs GP. The GP has said 
that following  Mrs Hs foot surgery, she developed  two separate unpredicted new medical  
conditions which meant she couldnt  go on her travels. The swelling of her left leg, and a 
blistering rash. The GP said these two medical  conditions werent expected  following her 
foot surgery. 
Whilst I appreciate it may not have been  expected  that Mrs H would develop a swollen leg or 
a rash following  her foot surgery,  crucially  the GP hasnt said that these were unrelated to 
the foot surgery. Given that the GP had previously described Mrs Hs swollen leg and rash 
as post-operative  complications, if the GP no longer thought that was the case, Id expect 
this to be made very clear and the GP to give their reasoning for the change in opinion. But 
the more recent statement from the GP doesnt do this. Consequently, I think  its reasonable 
to rely on the contemporaneous evidence from the GP, which  said that the swollen leg and 
rash were  post-operative complications.  
Although Mrs H didnt have a swollen leg or rash on her legs when she and Mr H booked 
their trip, Mr D had advised  Mrs H the day before that travelling was ambitious and there 
were risks attached. Whilst Mrs H couldnt  have known that she would experience  post-
operative complications, she was aware this was a risk. 
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs H, on balance, Im satisfied that the evidence supports 
they cancelled  their trip because of post-operative complications following  Mrs Hs surgery.  
Given that the surgery took place before they booked their trip, and they were  aware there  
were risks of post-operative  complications,  I think IPA was entitled to rely on the exclusion.   
Ref: DRN40765824Mr and Mrs H also complained about  the length  of time it took to process their claim. I see 
that IPA did make a claims  decision quite  quickly, however when Mr and Mrs H disputed 
this, it requested further medical information.  After receiving this information,  it didnt  alter 
IPAs decision.  However,  IPA said it recognised  there were some unnecessary delays in 
processing the claim, and so it paid Mr and Mrs H £50 compensation. I think  that was 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4076582