K821x#15complaint
Elevate Credit international Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny) approved a number of loans 
for Mr A between 2015 and 2017. Mr A has succinctly summarised  his complaint as follows:  
I was in a lot of debt,  and payday loans had soft checks  to allow  a short  term solution;  thus 
creating a long term problem.
Mr As representative has also asked for him to be compensated for stress and 
inconvenience.
background
Mr A is represented by a third party and its letter of complaint for Mr A was sent to Sunny on 
8 September 2017. Its final response letter sent by email to Mr As representative says that 
its checks were  proportionate and it was considered responsible  to advance credit.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and his opinion was that he was not able to assess  
the first seven loans  properly due to lack of information from Mr A. And Sunny was wrong to 
approve all loans from Loan 8 because he thought that the overall pattern of borrowing 
indicated that Mr A may have been  reliant on the loans and facing some wider  financial 
difficulties. From Loan 8 (20 October  2016) Sunny should have questioned whether 
continuing to offer further short-term loans  to Mr A was responsible. Our adjudicator thought  
that Sunny should put things right for Mr A for Loans  8 to 21.
Sunny has not responded to the view but it did send  to us its complete business  file after our 
adjudicators letter  had been  sent out and eleven months after being asked for it originally.  
And that shows that there were 22 loans. Two loans  were  taken  out on the same  day  
12 August 2017  for the same amount of £100 which has led to some confusion until we 
received Sunnys full list in its email to us dated 19 December 2018. I address this later in 
my decision.  
Some loans were repayable over six months,  some  over a shorter  period and some were  
payday loans.  
Mr As representative acknowledged the opinion letter and made  no further  points. From this 
it seems that Mr A does  not disagree  with our adjudicators opinion and so he takes no issue  
with the fact that Loans 1 to 7 have not been  upheld. No additional information has been 
received from Mr A or his representative since  then.  
Sunnys lack of response to our adjudicators  opinion itself, means that the complaint 
remains unresolved.  Both parties were informed that it was being passed to an ombudsman  
for a decision and invited to make any additional  points if either wished to. Mr As 
representative acknowledged it and added nothing more. Sunny has not responded. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. I plan to address Loans  8 to 22. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN43220552complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr As case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and have explained why below.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr A could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr As income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr As complaint. These  questions  are:
1.did Sunny, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr A would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr A would  have been able to do so?
2.taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr As indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about all of these questions and what  they mean for Mr As complaint.
Did Sunny, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr A would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Mr A would  have been  able to do so?
In view of what I have  outlined in the background section of this decision then I say no more  
about the loans up to loan 8. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for Loans 8 to 22 which  were 
from 20 October 2016 to 23 August 2017.  This is because I dont think that it is necessary to 
do so. Ill explain why this is the case in the next section.
Ref: DRN43220553Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr As indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful, and therefore whether  Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further lending. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr As case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 8 which was approved on 20 October 2016. I say this because:
Mr As first three loans  were all instalment  loans  repayable over 6 months and for 
fairly large amounts. They had overlapped with each other  and were  followed by a 
series of payday loans  and so Mr A had been in debt with Sunny for a permanent  
period of eleven months by the time he took Loan 8; and
Sunny  lent to him for a further  ten months after that point; and
the amounts  Mr A was borrowing were generally  increasing, with Loan 16 being for 
£450 after repaying eight payday loans in quick succession and another example is 
that he was approved  for four loans in August  2017;  and 
Sunny  ought  to have realised it was likely his indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably; and 
Mr A was in effect paying large  amounts of interest to service this debt over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr A lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 8 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr As 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  Mr As complaint about  Loans  8 to 22 because the overall pattern of 
lending increased  his indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and he lost out as a result.
I consider that the adjudicators opinion encompassed  the two loans taken  on the same day 
(Loans 19 and 20 on 12 August 2017) and as such I do not think that either party will be 
misled by the fact that I am upholding Loans 8 to 22 whereas our adjudicator  upheld  Loans 8 
to 21. Sunny  sent us its file after our adjudicator had come to his opinion  and has made no 
comment at all about the opinion. So I doubt it is likely to have much to say about that 
second loan approved on the same day.
 
Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Sunny acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr A in some  other  
way. 
Ref: DRN43220554I know that Mr As representative has asked  for additional recompense  for distress and 
inconvenience but neither  party has given me any details about this and so I am not able to 
make a finding on that aspect. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 8 to 22 being  all loans approved  
by it from 20 October  2016 to 23 August  2017;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from Loan 8 on 20 October 2016 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about Loans 8 to 22 should  be 
removed from Mr As credit file
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr As 
complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, should pay redress as Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I need to ask Mr A to accept or reject 
my final determination  on or before 4 April 2019.  
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4322055