K820x#14complaint
Miss K says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat  lent to her irresponsibly. She says the 
loans trapped  her in a debt spiral  and the repayments took up so much of her wages that 
she had to borrow again from different payday lenders to make  ends meet.   
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Cashfloat  provided to Miss K between 
October 2017 and July 2018. Some of the information Cashfloat  has provided about  the 
loans is in the table below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 06/10/2017 £200 25 09/10/2017
2  01/12/2017 £200 28 22/12/2017
3 24/01/2018 £400 64 05/03/2018
4 12/03/2018 £200 17 29/03/2018
5 06/07/2018 £400 84 03/08/2018
The first adjudicator that looked at the complaint didnt uphold it. Miss K didnt agree with 
what the adjudicator  said.  
Before being passed to an ombudsman  the complaint was reviewed by a second adjudicator  
who said that it should be partly upheld. As far as I can see Cashfloat didnt respond to this 
opinion. So as no agreement  has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me on 
the basis that it should be upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN41248012the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Miss K didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because  of this I dont  
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  this loan. So I wont  be making a decision  
about this loan. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Miss K had with Cashfloat. So it 
is something I will take into account  when considering the other  loans she took.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint. Ive decided  to partially uphold 
Miss Ks complaint in part and have explained  why below.
As our adjudicator explained the checks Cashfloat  did showed that Miss K was having  
problems managing her money. Our adjudicator  provided a lot of detail about this so I wont 
go over all of it again, but broadly this was as follows. 
Before approving loan 2 Cashfloat recorded  Miss Ks monthly income as being £1,500. 
Taking into account what she said about  her expenditure,  and other information such  as 
statistics and what it saw on the credit  checks,  Cashfloat thought  that Miss Ks regular 
monthly expenditure was just over £500. 
But Cashfloats credit  checks  also showed  that Miss K was making  significant  repayments to 
other creditors. She had a mixture of loans, hire purchase agreements  and other  short term 
lending. The combined repayments to these  were just over £800. So Miss Ks expenditure 
wasnt far short of her income  in any event and it doesnt seem reasonable to say that the 
information Cashfloat had showed  that she would be able to afford  the repayments to loan 2. 
And going forward this situation didnt improve. Cashfloats credit checks  showed that her 
total amount of indebtedness continued  to increase significantly over the time she borrowed. 
And the corresponding repayments  also increased.  For example whilst  she was due to repay  
loan 4 Miss K also was due to make  repayments to other creditors  of around £1,300. 
So Im upholding  Miss Ks complaint about  loans, 2, 3 and 4 as I think  it was clear to 
Cashfloat that she couldnt sustainably  afford  the repayments to these loans. 
Ref: DRN41248013And by loan 5 Miss K had been borrowing from Cashfloat for over eight months without a 
significant break. The amounts Miss K was borrowing had been generally increasing  before 
this loan. So Cashfloat ought  to have realised it was more likely than not Miss K was having  
to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances 
and that Miss Ks indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
I think it was unfair to keep on lending as the loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging 
Miss Ks indebtedness. And the number of loans was likely  to have had negative implications 
on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 5 and Cashfloat should  put things right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss K paid on loans 2 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 4 from Miss Ks credit file;
the number  of loans taken by loan 5 onwards means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So all information  about loan 5 should be removed from Miss Ks 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Ks complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things  right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124801