K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about her pet insurance policy with Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
(RSA). She says that confusing policy terms have meant she was left with substantial bills. 
She also complains about premium  increases  and that RSA made  only a partial refund after 
the policy was cancelled.
My references to RSA include its agent. 
background
Mrs M took out a pet insurance policy  with RSA in 2013 to cover her two dogs.  One of her 
dogs was found to have  cancer. After extensive treatment, he sadly passed away  in 2016.
RSA paid Mrs Ms claim for her dogs treatment, but only up to £7,500 because the policy  
provided this amount  of cover for each condition. 
Mrs M complained to RSA. She thought its policy terms  had been  confusing and said its own 
staff had agreed about that. She thought  she had the highest level of cover but had since 
found out RSA offered a lifetime policy where  the condition  limit renewed  each  year. RSA 
had told her that any other claim for her dog wouldnt have succeeded as it would have been 
linked back to his cancer.  She came to us, and also complained about the premium increase 
and that RSA had made only a partial premium refund after the policy  was cancelled.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. She said the policy terms had 
been clear about  the benefit limit being £7,500 for each condition. At the time Mrs M bought  
the policy RSA did not offer the lifetime policy. Further,  Mrs M could have claimed for other  
conditions not linked  to the cancer. Our adjudicator thought RSA had treated Mrs M fairly in 
increasing the policy premium, which was based on factors that it had applied equally to any 
customer in the same  situation. RSA said it hadnt  been able to make partial month premium 
refunds at the time of cancellation, but had now offered to refund the remaining months 
premium. Mrs M asked  for a review so the complaints  come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to read of the loss of Mrs Ms dog. Shes explained  the impact  this had on her, and 
that its not been easy to continue her complaint about his pet insurance. 
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mrs Ms position  I must be impartial in weighing  up all the 
evidence. Having done so, I dont uphold  her complaint. Ill explain why, focusing on what 
I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
Ive read the webchat with a member  of RSAs staff,  and Mrs Ms comments  that RSA 
agreed the difference in Mrs Ms policy  and the lifetime policy  could have been clearer.  
I appreciate Mrs Ms point that she thought  she was buying the highest level of cover in 
2013. And I think she did, because RSA has explained that the lifetime policy wasnt 
available at the time she bought her policy. I dont think RSA failed to provide unclear 
information at the time Mrs M bought her policy. It didnt have to offer her the lifetime  policy  
when it was introduced.
Ref: DRN46276002Ive looked at the RSA policy documents from 2013.  I think  it was clear  that the £7,500 cover 
applied per condition.  The policy said that the condition  would not be covered once the 
maximum limit was reached.  It said there  was no time limit on how long the claim could last. 
Mrs M says she was told that everything would have been linked back to her dogs cancer, 
and so after her dogs diagnosis she paid for a policy she couldnt  successfully have claimed 
on any longer. But RSA couldnt  fairly have linked any new condition  to the cancer unless  
the veterinary  evidence had showed it was linked. Mrs M says there was a low chance of an 
unrelated condition. But RSA did cover Mrs Ms dog after the 2016  renewal so I cant  fairly  
require it to refund the premium.
Ive considered Mrs Ms complaint about the increase in premium in 2016. We generally take 
the view that an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels it needs  to in order  to cover  a risk, 
so long as it doesnt mislead  people or treat people  unfairly. Pet insurance  can easily 
become expensive, but I dont think this means  RSA treated Mrs M unfairly  when it 
calculated her premium.
RSA has shown us that it increased Mrs Ms premium because of general claims inflation 
and the age of her pet. RSA has also shown  us that it treated Mrs M in the same way as its 
treated any other customer in her situation. I think RSA treated her fairly in the way it 
increased the premium.  
Mrs M also complained that RSA had not refunded her for a part-calendar month, when she 
cancelled the policy part-way through the month. RSA said it wasnt  able to make partial 
month refunds  at the time, but its since offered to pay her the remaining amount. Our 
adjudicator has asked Mrs M to let her know if shed like to accept this offer,  and well pass 
that on to RSA.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627600