K820x#14complaint
The complaint is about the advice Mr G received from TenetConnect Ltd (Tenet)  in 2011/12 
to transfer pensions with Standard Life and Scottish  Widows to a new Scottish Widows Plan.
background
Mr G complained in 2016. He said that a simple  fund switch would have been  more 
appropriate for him. He was invested across 14 diverse funds and the recommendation was 
to transfer to just two funds through Scottish Widows.
Mr G also says that he has lost £44,000  in life cover which was attached to his Standard  Life 
plan, he did not get the regular reviews that were promised and the regular premiums being 
paid to the original  plans  were not transferred to the new arrangement.
Mr G completed  a fact find with an advisor  in December 2011. This was to assist in a review  
of his pension  arrangements. A suitability report was sent to Mr G in 2012, following a further 
meeting, this recommended the transfer  of his pensions with Scottish Widows and Standard  
Life to a new arrangement  with Scottish  Widows.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. He felt the transfer  was justified based on the comparative  research carried  out by 
the advisor. He also felt that Mr G had elected to cancel the life assurance and had declined 
to pay for an on-going  review service.
Mr G disagreed and restated that he felt the advisor transferred his pension for his own 
personal gain.  As no agreement has been reached the case  has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and broadly with his reasons.
The advisor obtained illustrations of future pension benefits from Mr Gs existing providers. 
These were  compared to what the benefits might be using standard  industry assumptions.  
Comparisons were made  assuming both that Mr G would continue  to contribute  to the 
pension or cease.
The comparisons suggested  that the new plan that was recommended  had lower charges 
than the existing plans. Whilst that didnt guarantee better future  performance, it was a 
significant factor and meant there was the potential for increased growth with the same 
investment performance. This saving couldnt have been achieved with a simple  fund switch  
within the existing  funds, as the same charges would have applied.
Turning to the question of the loss of life assurance, Tenet has provided a letter  signed  by 
Mr G from 2012  confirming  his wish to transfer  the pensions.  This letter  also says, Please 
also cease the life assurance as I no longer require the cover . So I think its likely that there  
was a discussion about this and agreement  that the life assurance policy  was no longer 
required.
Ref: DRN41040362Mr G says that he was promised regular reviews but did not receive  them. However, in the 
suitability letter dated from August  2012, there is a section that states  In order  to assist  you 
in achieving your goals and to appraise  how your investment  is performing  I explained the 
importance of regularly reviewing your retirement  provision. You confirmed you do not 
require me to review  your pension arrangements on a regular basis and we agreed I will 
review these plans  at your request. You will also receive annual statements from Scottish 
Widows including the current value  and selected benefits at retirement age. I am available  
for reviews upon your specific request.
Im satisfied this statement makes it reasonably clear to Mr G that the onus was on him to 
contact the advisor,  should he want his pension provision to be reviewed moving forward.
I can see that Mr G has correctly pointed out the advisor failed to transfer the ongoing  
regular payments to the new plan. This has been  conceded by the advisor who says that it 
was an administrative error on his part.
But fund comparisons for the relevant period when contributions werent made  indicate  that 
Mr G is not worse off. He has suffered no loss as a result of the error.
my final decision
So for the reasons, I dont uphold this complaint  and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4104036