K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money  plc unfairly  refused his claim brought  under Section  75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. He wants a refund of monies paid and compensation.
background
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a family member,  Mr R, but for ease of reading  Ill 
just refer to Mr H.
Mr H tells us that after his vehicle broke down in July 2016  he took it to a garage which  Ill 
call A, a company. He says A diagnosed that an engine rebuild was necessary which Mr H 
says he authorised. After  the repairs were seemingly completed, Mr H says he was invoiced 
by A for the rebuild  which he paid for by credit  card. Some weeks  later he says A also fitted  
a new turbo  as the engine had lost power - but this didnt solve  the issue.  Following a vehicle 
inspection by a different  garage,  a firm Ill call M, Mr H says that M told him the original 
engine had been replaced not rebuilt. Mr H says that the original repairs  were 
misrepresented and/or  in breach of contract and he wants a full refund and compensation.
Virgin issued a final response letter in November 2018. It said that it hadnt received an 
independent engineers report to show there  was anything wrong with the engine or that it 
was suffering a lack of power.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said he thought  Virgin 
ought to have noted the breach of contract  as A had replaced the engine not rebuilt it as 
required. He said it should refund the cost of the replacement engine  and turbo and pay £300 
to Mr H as compensation  for distress and inconvenience in its handling of the complaint.
Virgin didnt agree with this outcome.  It told us it had no documentary proof that Mr H asked 
for the engine to be rebuilt not replaced. And it said A had replaced the engine  as it wasnt 
repairable. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans  been asked 
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H experienced problems with this vehicle and that the subsequent attempts 
to repair  it caused  him even more difficulties.
Mr Hs complaint is brought under  section 75 and is against Virgin  so Im looking at its 
actions and whether  its treated Mr H fairly. Im not deciding on the merits of any claim he 
may have  against  A. Although in deciding if Virgins handled Mr Hs complaint properly Ill 
take this into consideration.
Whilst I dont apply  the law directly I do take it into account. And section 75 is relevant 
legislation here.  And where information is unclear or incomplete - as some  of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN47543852Briefly summarised, section 75 says that where  a consumer  uses certain types of credit - 
and that includes  a credit card - to purchase goods  and/or  services  and theres  a 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract by the supplier (in this case  A), the consumer 
will have a like claim against  the provider of finance (Virgin) as they would against the 
supplier. There are other conditions but its not disputed theyre met in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. And a breach of contract  
might occur if goods werent  of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply. Or if services 
werent carried out with reasonable  care and skill.
There initially seemed  to be contradictions in the information regarding what happened at the 
time of the original  repairs.  But as things have progressed its now become a lot clearer as to 
whats actually taken  place.
Ive seen an invoice  dated 2 August 2016  from A. This refers to an engine  rebuild  and the 
various parts that had been required.  The invoice total came to £2,685. And Mr Hs credit  
card statement shows it was paid the same  day. And on 4 October  2016  Mr Hs credit card 
statement shows a further payment  of £400  to A, which  I understand was for the turbo.
Mr H first complained to Virgin on or around 13 October 2016. And later supplied  a letter 
from M dated 10 November 2016  which  stated  that the work detailed on As invoice hadnt 
been carried out and that this could be proved as the engine  numbers  on the registration 
document didnt  correspond  to the engine fitted in the vehicle. 
A wrote to Virgin on 2 January 2017  confirming that itd replaced the engine with a recently   
rebuilt engine  which it said had cost it more that its quote to Mr H. It said itd done so as it 
had a timescale to repair the vehicle and had acted  in good faith. Its not a matter for me to 
determine if As actions  were well intended.  And whether  or not the cost of the replacement  
engine it acquired  was greater than it charged Mr H is not really  the issue.  Mr H was given 
an invoice which falsely described  the work that had been  carried  out. And I cant  see any 
plausible reason why A couldnt  have  told Mr H that his vehicle wasnt  repairable  before it 
sourced the replacement engine. Mr H would  then have had the correct information on which  
to decide if he wanted to proceed or not.
I think Virgin ought reasonably to have recognised  thered probably been a breach of 
contract. It was no longer  in dispute  that the goods and services for which  Mr H had been 
invoiced on 2 August 2016  hadnt  been provided. And there  was also reason to believe that 
the replacement  engine wasnt of satisfactory quality as the turbo required replacing soon 
after the engine  was fitted. Virgin might  have thought the replacement engine  provided by A 
was a suitable alternative but it was not what Mr H paid for. The subsequent issue  that Virgin 
raised about whether the vehicle was experiencing a loss of power doesnt seem to me to be 
of relevance as by then any breach  of contract had occurred.
I note that Mr H originally submitted a claim for compensation totalling over £14,000. This 
included losses he says were consequential  upon  the breach  of contract. In order for such 
losses to be recoverable they have to be not only a direct result  of the breach but they must 
also be reasonably  foreseeable.  And some  of the additional  losses  claimed by Mr H relate  to 
purported losses to his business. The repairs invoice was made out in Mr Hs personal name 
and paid for through his personal credit card. As Mr Hs business is a limited  company its a 
separate legal  entity. And as its not a party  to this complaint I cant  make any award to it.
Ref: DRN47543853Also a claim  for the original cost of the motor vehicle  (£3,800) cannot  be justified. Clearly 
that cost included the original engine which subsequently failed. So Mr H cant reasonably  
expect to recover the cost of both the replacement engine  and the original vehicle.
I note also that Mr H has sought £5,000 compensation for various alleged failures by Virgin  
and the distress and inconvenience this has caused  him. Compensation isnt intended to 
punish a business rather its to offer some  recompense to a customer if a business has failed 
to meet  reasonably expected standards. I dont doubt Mr H has experienced inconvenience 
but most  of this arises from the actions of A. And Virgin  is only liable for those actions of A 
which amount to a breach of contract  and/or misrepresentation.
I feel the award of £300 recommended by our adjudicator  is commensurate  with the 
inconvenience caused by the delay in Virgins handling of this matter. It seems  to me that 
from January 2017 (As admission)  it had sufficient information that should have led it to find 
thered been a breach  of contract and to take action  to credit Mr Hs account with the 
relevant amounts.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint  as I find that Virgin shouldve accepted that a 
breach of contract had occurred and that Mr H had suffered a loss as a result.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require Virgin Money plc to take the 
following action:
1.Refund any payments  made towards  the total cost, up to £3,085. Any interest  paid on 
such amounts should also be refunded. Simple interest on any payments should be 
made at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement;
2.Make any necessary  adjustments to Mr Hs account by applying  a credit  for any unpaid  
balance relating to the above.  Any interest  paid on this amount should be repaid;
3.Pay £300 to Mr H for distress  and inconvenience;
4.Upon proof of payment refund the cost of Ms inspection together with simple interest at 
the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4754385