K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Saga Services Limited  miss-sold him a home insurance policy so that 
he was left without  cover for theft.  
background
Mr G undertook building works at his home  which required him to move  out of it whilst they 
were carried  out. His buildings and contents policy  arranged through Saga - had renewed 
on 8 May 2017.  On 22 May 2017  he rang Saga to let it know about the works. The insurer 
said it wasnt prepared to continue cover whilst the building works were carried  out so Saga 
started to look for alternatives. A few days  later Saga left a voice message for Mr G which  
said it was sending him a quotation for cover  with a premium of £699.98  (against a renewal 
premium of £340.19).  Saga said in the message that there were  a few endorsements  on the 
policy which  Mr G should read. 
The quotation arrived a few days later and Saga highlighted  the endorsements. The first 
endorsement said: 
Special conditions that apply to your policy
The following  endorsements  will be applied to your policy  and forms part of the terms 
conditions and exceptions.
Buildings and Contents
003 Vacant property
You have told us that the buildings  are vacant. We will only cover damage caused  by fire or 
smoke not arising  from a gradually operating cause, explosion, lightning  or earthquake, 
impact by aircraft or other aerial  devices or anything dropped from them  and liability  to the 
public only
Mr G contacted Saga and accepted  the quotation.   
In November 2017 Mr Gs empty property was burgled. He claimed  under his policy  and the 
insurer appointed  a loss adjuster. Due to the fact that many  of Mr Gs possessions had been 
moved into storage  he couldnt readily identify  precisely what had been in the house (and 
stolen) and what may still be in storage.  So it took until Mr G moved  back  into the house in 
March 2018 for him to provide the insurer with a definitive list of what had been  taken. The 
claim amounted to about £7,379. Shortly after, the loss adjuster told Mr G that the theft claim 
wasnt in fact covered  because of the endorsement  on the policy.  It apologised for not having 
noticed it sooner.  
Mr G complained to Saga  that itd miss-sold him the policy.  He said it hadnt  made  it clear  to 
him that his policy provided cover for such a limited number of events. Saga looked into     
Mr Gs complaint and said it had left him a voice message when  the quote was sent out to 
him advising him that there were  endorsements on the policy,  to read the documentation 
carefully and to contact  it. It said the endorsement was clearly  stated  on the policy  
documentation. Saga  did accept that during the inception call for his policy he hadnt been 
asked by its adviser whether hed received the documentation. It said normally  the adviser 
would receive feedback  for not having  done  so but they had left the company. As a gesture 
of goodwill  Saga offered Mr G £250.
Unhappy with Sagas decision, Mr G complained to this service. He said the insurer  had said 
that whilst  the property was empty the endorsement meant he only had cover for fire, 
Ref: DRN46926292lightning, earthquake and aircraft impact (referred to as FLEA cover). He said and insurance 
policy that only provided FLEA cover wasnt an insurance policy.  He said the effect of the 
endorsement hadnt been drawn to his attention. He questioned why the endorsement didnt 
embolden the words  that mattered (such  as your insurance only covers  you for fire 
damage and smoke).  He said he couldnt understand why he was paying  so more for such  
little cover.  Finally, Mr G questioned how it took the loss adjuster four and half months to 
decline the claim when  the reason for doing so was that theft wasnt covered. He said the 
loss adjuster couldve done this at the start of the claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt  think  it should be upheld. Mr G 
disagreed with our investigators findings and he asked for his complaint to be referred  for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr G has been  the victim 
of a nasty crime so I understand that it will come  as a disappointment to him that I dont think 
his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The covering  letter that accompanied the quotation  that Saga sent Mr G contained  the 
following statement in bold type:
There are specific endorsements that require  your immediate attention,  please  refer  
to your Statement of Insurance for details.  We recommend that you read carefully the 
Endorsement section of your Statement of Insurance because special conditions have 
been applied.
In a check list to the side of the covering letter it says under the heading What to do now to 
check the quote Schedule and ensure your personal and cover details are correct. To 
accept cover call us . Please refer to the Endorsement sections for any special conditions  
relating to your quotation.
The vacant property endorsement appeared on the second page of the statement of 
insurance. The Saga adviser who left Mr G the voice message for Mr G also mentioned  that 
he should read the endorsements. 
On balance, I think that Saga did enough  to draw Mr Gs attention  to the fact endorsements 
had been added to the policy. Indeed  Mr G says he read them. The Endorsements section 
of the Statement  of Insurance clearly states that the following endorsements apply  and form 
part of the policy terms, conditions and exceptions. I also think  the Vacant property 
endorsement itself is written clearly. It says only damage caused in the very limited  
circumstances listed will be covered.  
So Im unable to agree that, taken together, the documentation Saga sent, and the voice  
message it left, werent sufficient notice that cover had been limited because  the property  
was going to be vacant. I dont think Saga miss-sold the policy  to Mr G and I think its offer to 
pay him £250 as a gesture of goodwill is fair in the circumstances.  If this complaint had 
passed across my desk without such an award  having already been made its unlikely that I 
would have made a similar recommendation. 
Ref: DRN46926293Whilst this complaint is about  the actions Saga took, I can see that Mr G has also mentioned  
that the loss adjuster shouldve realised  sooner  that there was no theft cover  under the 
policy. I cant look at that part of Mr Gs complaint here because the loss adjuster  is 
appointed by, and is responsible to, the insurer. It is also the insurer that bears the risk of 
insuring the property. It will decide  what risks it is prepared to take on and what price  to 
charge for doing so. Generally, insurers consider empty properties, and those where building 
works are being undertaken, to present greater risks than occupied ones. And it is standard 
for insurers to offer only FLEA  cover on empty properties, so the premium  charged will 
reflect that. It is worth noting that it took Saga a number  of days  to find Mr G a replacement  
policy.
Mr G has queried  why certain words werent  emboldened whilst other  (in his view, less 
important) ones were.  Words in insurance  documents that are in bold type are typically  those 
where there  is a specific policy definition  for them (usually found in the policy terms and 
conditions or terms of business).They are words that have particular special  meaning  to the 
contract. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4692629