K820x#14complaint
Mr K says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr K bought the policy in 1999   and it was added to his credit card account over the phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  After doing so Ive decided  not to uphold 
Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed so I shall explain why.
Mr K applied for his credit card in May 1997  by post.  The PPI was added to his account two 
years later in June 1999 during a phone call. I dont know what was said during that call. 
MBNA has given me a phone script it says its representatives would have used at the time 
but I note its dated two years after the sale of the PPI to Mr K.
But I do think MBNA made Mr K aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to protect his credit card repayments,  knowing there  would be a cost for the policy. 
I say this because  I think  MBNA  made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional  and that he 
chose to take it. Ive seen  a copy of the credit card application form Mr K filled in and signed  
in 1997. I see it had Yes  and No options  for PPI  and Mr K ticked No on his completed 
application. So he would have been aware  that it was up to him to decide whether  or not he 
wanted to have PPI. 
I think its most likely  that the PPI was added during the phone  call when he spoke to MBNA  
two years later, and it was added to his account at his request. I dont think its likely that it 
would have been added to his account  otherwise. 
As MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right for him 
taking account  of his circumstances. It was for Mr K to decide  whether it was suitable for 
him.
I dont know what was discussed during the phone call so its possible the information MBNA  
gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been  and they may not properly 
have explained  what the policy would cost,  or what it might  pay out if Mr K made  a 
successful claim. But Mr K chose to take out the policy  when he didnt have to  so he 
seems to have wanted it. And he doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover  a pre-existing medical condition as an example.
Ive also taken into account that Mr K would only receive statutory pay if he wasnt  in work 
and he hasnt told us of any savings he could have  used to meet his card repayments if he 
had to stop working unexpectedly. But the policy would  have  paid out in addition  to any 
Ref: DRN49948262statutory pay Mr K may have received. So, even though  the policy benefit was low, based on 
what I know about Mr Ks circumstances it looks like it could still have  been  useful to him. 
And I dont  think better information would have stopped  him buying it.
This means  that, even though MBNA  didnt  do everything it should have done, I dont think     
Mr Ks lost out because  of this. So I dont uphold his complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Ks comments,  including what  hes said about not being told about  
the policy and it was added without his knowledge. But because of what  Ive said, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4994826