K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Fortrade Limited  didnt let her know in advance  that she was in margin 
deficit, even though it had promised to. This meant  that her trades were closed at a loss. 
background
In July 2018 Mrs C had a number of open  positions  on AUD/JPY,  USD/CAD, GBP/JPY and 
crude oil. Between 26 and 31 July 2018, these positions were  closed  by Fortrade due to 
Mrs C having insufficient margin.  
Mrs C said that shed  been assured by Fortrade, prior to opening  her account, that it would 
warn her in advance of closing positions due to insufficient  margin.  She said that Fortrade 
failed to adhere to its promised therefore causied  her a financial loss. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt consider it should be upheld. In 
short:
Fortrades terms were clear that it was an execution-only broker, and that it was 
Mrs Cs responsibility to monitor  her account  and ensure she had sufficient margin.  
The terms didnt guarantee that a warning would always be given. Fortrades terms 
also allowed it discretion  to close out all or any open  positions  due to insufficient 
margin. 
He acknowledged  that the advisers Mrs C spoke to when she first opened her 
account may well have told her that Fortrade tried, where possible, to let customers 
know in advance of closing positions. But he didnt think it was likely that an adviser 
would have made a promise  or a guarantee that she would always  be contacted. 
In any event he was persuaded  that Fortrade had in fact contacted  Mrs C, by sending  
her text messages about the margin levels on her account. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. She said she didnt receive any alerts on the day the 
trades were  closed as she had been promised. She said she had relied on the assurances  
she had been  given, and maintained that she had provided written  evidence of the 
assurances shed  been  given.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators overall conclusions, and for broadly the same  reasons. 
I understand Mrs C feels let down by the business,  and believes that its actions have caused 
her a loss. But whilst I understand  her frustration and disappointment at the losses she 
incurred once her trades were closed, I dont agree these losses were  caused by Fortrade. 
Im sorry  to say I dont have much  to add to what  the investigator  has already said. 
When Mrs C agreed  to Fortrades terms and conditions, she agreed to be ultimately 
responsible for managing her open trades and the cash in her account. So it was ultimately  
always going to be her responsibility  to add more cash  to the account  when her margin level 
was low, and to otherwise be aware  of what was happening with her trades.  
Ref: DRN40410222Ive read the emails  she was sent by one of the account managers  at Fortrade. Im not 
persuaded it was reasonable  for Mrs C to infer from that email that she never needed to look 
at her account as Fortrade would always, without fail, notify  her in advance  of closing her 
trades due to insufficient margin.  The email  simply explains the broad process Fortrade 
follows (and not all brokers do) when clients have low or insufficient margin  on an account.  
But I dont agree the email suggests that Fortrade  would assume responsibility for ensuring  
a client is fully aware of their margin position,  or is notified in advance  that trades are at risk 
of being closed out. Im satisfied that this email in no way undermines a fundamental feature 
of Mrs Cs arrangement with Fortrade   that it was an execution only account, and that she 
maintained overall  responsibility for her trading decisions.
In any event, the evidence Ive seen  indicates  that Fortrade did send her text messages to 
warn her that she had low margin and was at risk of her trades  being  closed.  When  she 
received the first text message, Mrs C decided not to add any cash.  And Im satisfied she 
was sent a further two text messages warning her that her position  wasnt improving. I 
appreciate Mrs Cs disputes receiving these  messages  and disputes that the third one was 
sent at all. But Im persuaded by the evidence Fortrade has provided, and Im satisfied its 
more likely than not these messages were sent. 
Given these circumstances, Im satisfied Mrs C was given ample warning, over and above 
what she had already agreed to in the terms and conditions of the account, and chose not to 
add additional  margin. Im not persuaded  Fortrade  should therefore be responsible for any 
losses she incurred  given that, ultimately,  these were trading losses.  
I would only add that Mrs C had the option,  when she saw her positions were closed, to re-
open them  immediately. Doing so wouldve involved taking the risk that the markets might  
continue moving  against  her. Fortrade  has supplied evidence that indicates GBP/JPY 
continued to rise until the end of July 2018  which means Mrs Cs losses wouldve been even 
greater had she not been closed out at the time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4041022