K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about problems with a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase  
Agreement with Black  Horse Limited (Black Horse). She would like the car repaired.
background
Miss B says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Black Horse in May 2018. This 
was for a six year old car with a mileage of 73,000 miles.
She says in July 2018 she had to return the car to the dealership. It replaced the coil pack  
and repaired  a small water leak.
She says in August 2018 the car broke  down. She says she took the car back to the 
dealership who said the engine had over heated due to a lack of water.
Black Horse  said it arranged for an independent inspection. The inspection concluded that 
there was an engine fault and issues with the bodywork.  But that these  faults were  due to 
driver neglect. And would not have been present at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Bs complaint.  She found the independent report  
conclusive with no evidence of issues present  or developing  at the point  of sale.
Black Horse  accepted this view but Miss B didnt. She said she had had a lot to deal with the 
car and paid a lot of money. She didnt feel that Black Horse had helped  her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss B is going to be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator.
I can see from the information that I have that Miss B had several problems with her car 
within six months of having it.
I think as Miss B bought a used car with reasonable mileage she might expect to have some 
wear and tear and issues to deal with  more for example than with a new car.
Generally when problems arise  within  the first six months we expect the business to show  if 
the problems were present or developing at the point of sale.  And if they were  we would 
usually allow the business one opportunity to repair.
In this case Black Horse arranged an independent  inspection. I think  this was the correct 
approach and what I would have expected it to do.
Ive read the report and its clear to me that issues with the engine  and with the bodywork 
have been assessed as due to driver neglect.  The report  is clear these issues  wouldnt have 
been present  or developing at the point of sale.
This was an independent  report  and as such I place a lot of weight on it. Miss B hasnt given 
us any evidence to contradict  the report. So I am satisfied from the report  that no issues  
Ref: DRN40903892were present  or developing at the point of sale. And as such  Black Horse  has no 
responsibility to remedy  these issues.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4090389