K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds decision to decline their potential  
subsidence claim under their home  insurance policy. esure  also removed subsidence cover 
from the policy and Mr and Mrs E would like that cover  reinstated.
background
Mr and Mrs E made a claim for crack damage to their home  extension. esure investigated  
and declined  the claim. It said the extension was built on inadequate  foundations and the 
damage was being  caused because of this and the surrounding vegetation.  Mr and Mrs E 
didnt accept this and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that esure hadnt shown that the foundations 
were inadequate. Our investigator  said esure hadnt carried out a physical inspection  of the 
foundations. So, although in principle  he thought  esure might be right it hadnt shown this to 
be the case and so it couldnt  apply  the exclusion. He said esure should conduct a proper 
foundations investigation before it makes a conclusion on the claim.  He also said he didnt 
think it was fair for esure to remove subsidence  cover from the policy  at this point. 
esure didnt  accept this and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a little unclear  to me how thorough esures investigation was. But what  is clear  is that it 
said it didnt need  to undertake any further investigation as the cost would be prohibitive. It 
said the extension  was very recent, it said there was a lot of nearby vegetation,  and it said 
the foundations were  inadequate.
Mr and Mrs E said the foundations were calculated by chartered engineers, they were  
verified by building inspectors and they went down to a level set by a benchmark market  
industry body for new build homes.
Effectively, that means  weve got the two sides saying completely different things.
Based on these differences I think its abundantly clear that a more thorough and appropriate 
investigation of the extension foundations are required. I dont think  esure has given this 
service details to show the required (under regulations) foundation depths  that needed to be 
met for the extension  havent been  met. I also dont think  Ive clearly seen what the actual 
depth of the foundation to the extension is either. So, Ive no proof either way that the 
foundations to the extension are either appropriate  or inadequate.  
I dont think thats  fair or reasonable on Mr and Mrs E. esure needs to be able to back up 
with reasons its decisions when it declines claims.  I dont  think it has done so here.
I require esure to carry out a more thorough investigation which  will check  to see if the 
extension was built in line with the appropriate regulations and standards that applied at the 
Ref: DRN44121572time of construction. Its esures  responsibility to show this isnt the case before it declines a 
claim. And at the moment it hasnt done  this.
That also brings  into question the removal of the subsidence cover from the policy. Im not 
sure thats  fair if esure is saying the property wouldnt be suffering damage if the foundations 
were adequate. esure didnt respond  to our investigator on this point so I dont think its fair 
for esure to remove such cover until its dealt with the claim by way of a thorough  
investigation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
thoroughly investigate the claim;
reinstate subsidence  cover.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4412157