K820x#14complaint
Ms Ks complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC concerns her belief that Barclays mis-sold 
her legal expenses  insurance cover.
background
Ms K has outlined a number of issues against  various businesses but this complaint solely  
deals with her belief that Barclays mis-sold  the legal expenses cover.
The basis  of the mis-sale  complaint concerns an alleged failure by Barclays  to tell Ms K that 
other companies were  involved  in the handling of legal expenses  claims and a different 
company was the actual insurer. And in addition Ms K says it wasnt  explained that a claim 
needed to enjoy reasonable prospects of success to be covered. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and noted the sale of the policy was some 
years ago and that there was no documentation from the point of sale available.  He 
explained all that was available was the policy documentation and this named the insurance 
company and the company that handled  claims.  And the investigator pointed  out that this 
was common for the type of policy Ms K had purchased  a home  policy that had legal 
expenses as an additional level of cover. He concluded that the policy clearly highlighted the 
relevant businesses involved in the legal expenses cover and there was insufficient  
information to show Ms K would have done anything differently had she been specifically 
told. On the reasonable  prospects point the investigator said this was a common  term to 
legal expenses cover  and it was detailed in the policy.  
Ms K didnt accept the investigators  opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is quite  narrow although  I do appreciate that Ms K has a number 
of stressful issues currently ongoing.  
The legal expenses  cover  in this case is included within  a larger  home insurance policy. 
Theres no persuasive evidence that Ms K didnt want legal expenses and indeed it seems  
common ground that it was offered and accepted by her. 
Having seen the policy documentation  provided  in this complaint it clearly  shows  the identity 
of the insurance  company and claim handling company for the legal expenses part of the 
policy. Indeed  they are named a number of times. And in addition  theres  no persuasive 
evidence from Ms K that the names  or the fact of these companies would have made any 
difference to her decision to add the legal expenses to her home policy. This set up of 
having different  insurers covering different aspects of insurance cover  isnt unusual,  and the 
same can be said for claim handling agents or administrators.  Im not satisfied its unfair  in 
this case and Im not persuaded  that it made any difference.
All legal expenses policies Ive seen  require that for a claim to be approved  it must have 
reasonable prospects of success. The policy makes it clear under a how it works section 
Ref: DRN44579412that a lawyer will first assess how likely Ms K is to win her case. And if its more  likely than 
not then the claim  will be pursued. And indeed  there  is an entire section headed prospects 
of success. This requirement  isnt unusual and Ms K would find a similar requirement in any 
other legal expense policy she might purchase. Court action can be expensive and a prudent 
privately paying customer is unlikely to want to bear the cost of running a case if advised its 
unlikely to succeed. Im not persuaded this is a significant term such that Barclays  needed to 
identify it specifically to Ms K.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4457941