K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about the way Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream)  treated her 
after she fell into arrears  on a loan.
background
Miss M took out a loan for £250 with Lending Stream  in September 2017.  It was due to be 
repaid in six monthly instalments,  from October 2017 to March 2018. The loan repayments 
set out in the loan agreement included a total of £233.60 in interest  over the term, making a 
total amount repayable of £483.60.
A few days  before  the November  2017 instalment was due, Miss M told Lending  Stream that 
shed had an accident, and would be off work  for two months. Lending  Stream offered 
Miss M a payment holiday until the date when the January 2018 repayment was due.
Lending Stream charged a late payment fee of £15 to Miss Ms account  when it didnt 
receive the November  2017 instalment. It told Miss M that it hadnt received her explicit  
response to its offer of a payment holiday before the November 2017 instalment had been 
due. And it said that if Miss M cleared the arrears,  it would postpone her December  2017  
payment until January  2018.
Miss M objected to the fee, as she said shed  told Lending Stream she was happy with the 
proposed arrangement holiday. In early  January  2018,  after a several emails, Lending 
Stream confirmed to Miss M that it had set up a payment  arrangement by which Miss M 
would bring her account up to date by making payments in January,  February  and March  
2018. It also said it had waived the late payment fee and the extra  interest it had charged on 
the account.
A couple of days after payment was due in February  2018,  Miss M told Lending  Stream  that 
she couldnt make the payment that month.  She offered to pay £15. And in March 2018  
Miss M told Lending Stream that shed lost her debit  card and hadnt received the 
replacement yet. So she hadnt been  able to pay her March  instalment. But she would try to 
pay double in April.
But in early April 2018 Miss M told Lending  Stream she was in great financial difficulty, and 
that the situation had been exacerbated by her partner having  been taken seriously ill. She 
asked it to freeze the account. She offered to pay £15 per month,  starting in April 2018. 
Lending Stream agreed to this, and stopped  adding  interest to the account.
In October  2018 Lending Stream emailed Miss M to say shed missed her September and 
October payments.  Miss M contacted Lending Stream promptly after receiving the email, 
and pointed out that shed  made  both payments  on time.
In October  2018 Lending Stream sent Miss M a default notice. It said, in summary,  that 
Miss M hadnt made  her March 2018  repayment on time. It said that a missed payment  fee 
of £15 had been added  to her account in respect of the February 2018 instalment, and 
default interest had been debited to the account. It said that Miss M must contact Lending 
Stream to discuss her arrears, and to pay the £249 outstanding by 7 November 2018, and 
must make any payment due before then on time. 
Ref: DRN45600242One of our adjudicators considered Miss Ms complaint.  He said,  in summary, that Lending  
Stream should:
apologise to Miss M for having  sent her a default notice even though payments were 
being made;
ensure that all Miss Ms payments were  recorded correctly  on her credit file; and
set up an affordable repayment plan for Miss M to clear  the outstanding  balance, treating 
her positively  and sympathetically.
Miss M wasnt  happy with the adjudicators view. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss M has made detailed submissions, 
and Ive considered  them  all carefully  in reaching my conclusion. I focus on her main areas 
of dissatisfaction  below.
I dont find that Lending  Stream was at fault in applying a late payment fee to Miss Ms 
account in February  2018. Miss M had been  due to make a payment under the payment 
arrangement, and she didnt contact Lending  Stream to tell it that shed  be unable to make 
the full payment until a couple  of days after it had been due. Miss M has commented that 
Lending Stream applied  more than one late payment fee to her account. But Im satisfied  
that the fee that it applied  for the missed  November 2017 payment was later reversed.  So 
the balance outstanding on the account only includes one late payment fee.
Miss M has suggested that Lending  Stream should  have frozen interest in November 2017, 
when it offered her a payment  plan. But the offer of a payment holiday was in response to 
Miss M telling Lending Stream that shed had an accident and would be off work for two 
months as a result. I consider that the two-month payment  holiday  was a reasonable 
response to Miss Ms situation, which would have appeared to be temporary.  And I dont find 
that Lending Stream was at fault in not freezing interest on the account at that stage.
Miss M didnt manage to make the agreed  payments in February or March 2018. But in 
March 2018 she indicated that she hoped  to be able to make  a double payment  the following 
month. It wasnt  until April 2018, when Miss M told Lending Stream that she was 
experiencing great financial  difficulty,  that it became  apparent that Miss Ms financial 
difficulties were likely to be longer-term.  At that point Lending Stream  agreed  promptly  to 
freeze interest on the account, and to set up an affordable repayment plan for Miss M.
Im satisfied that Lending Stream responded reasonably to Miss Ms various requests to 
postpone payments  and to agree affordable  arrangements  for her to repay her loan. And 
I dont find that it was at fault for not freezing interest  earlier than it did.
Im satisfied, from the statements of account that have been provided, that Lending Stream 
has effectively capped  additional interest  on Miss Ms account  so that she wont  end up 
paying more than £500 in total  in other  words  twice the capital amount that she borrowed. 
This includes all interest  and the late payment  fee of £15.
Ref: DRN45600243Miss M has provided evidence  which shows that she made her payments of £15 in 
September and October 2018  when  they were due. So I accept that Lending Stream was 
wrong to claim that the payments werent  received until the end of October 2018.
In response to the adjudicators view of the complaint, Lending  Stream  has offered  its 
apologies to Miss M for sending her a default  notice  even though payments had been made. 
Its offered  to set up an affordable repayment  plan for the balance  outstanding on the loan, 
and to ensure  that all her payments are correctly recorded on her credit  file.
I know that Miss M feels  strongly about  her complaint. But having  considered  everything 
thats been provided, I think  that what Lending Stream  has agreed to do is reasonable. And 
I dont consider that it would be fair to require it to write off the outstanding balance  on the 
loan, as Miss M wishes.
my final decision
My decision  is that Lending  Stream should ensure  that all Miss Ms payments were recorded 
correctly on her credit file and set up an affordable  repayment plan for Miss M to clear the 
outstanding balance, bearing in mind its obligation  to treat her positively  and sympathetically,  
as it has offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4560024