K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he received poor customer service  from Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS)  when he tried to return  a car at the end of a hire period.
background
Mr K took receipt of a new car in February 2015. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS and returned the vehicle at the end of the three year term. 
He complained to MBFS about the following issues:
he was disappointed that the collection of his vehicle was cancelled and he was the 
one who had to organise the vehicle return.  He explained that he had to take time off 
work and the dealership he returned the car to didnt  seem  interested  in inspecting it
he thought  MBFSs response,  to a safety call notification  hed received  shortly before 
handing the car back, had been  lacking
he was also unhappy that when he first took receipt of the car there had been  
different sized tyres on it and he said hed had to pay to have the wheels realigned  
MBFS accepted there were delays and confusion when they tried to arrange the cars 
collection. They offered £150 in compensation for the inconvenience  Mr K had experienced. 
They subsequently explained that theyd passed  Mr K on to their customer  assistance centre 
when hed called them about the safety recall but that they werent  aware hed contacted  the 
centre. They said theyd  also advised  him to talk to customer assistance  when he mentioned 
the tyre issue but again they didnt think hed been in touch.
Mr K was disappointed with MBFSs response so he referred his complaint to this service 
and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She thought MBFSs offer of compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances and she explained that she didnt think  it would be fair to 
hold them accountable for the collection agents failings. She went  on to explain that there  
was no record of Mr K contacting the customer assistance centre  and she suggested that if 
he did so MBFS may have been  able to assist better with his concerns about the safety 
recall. She also explained that if Mr K was able to provide receipts  for the tyre re-alignment  
MBFS would  reconsider their position  but in the absence of those receipts she didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  that the work  was necessary  and she didnt think  MBFS needed 
to take any further  action.
Mr K didnt agree and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K but I agree with the adjudicators  opinion.  Please let me explain  
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN47111042board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the collection delays
I can understand Mr Ks frustration at having to organise the collection himself. Ive looked at 
what the finance agreement says about  returning a car. It says that at the end of the 
agreement: You  shall forthwith return the vehicle to us in good condition. So, whilst I 
understand that businesses regular collect cars at the end of the hire period, there is often a 
charge if thats  the case, and the responsibility for returning the car is usually  the consumers.
So even if the vehicle wasnt collected by them  it was arguable whether MBFS had to collect 
the car.
But its clear they agreed to do so and that the collection  of the vehicle  failed. I also dont 
dispute Mr Ks testimony that the dealership  seemed uncertain of what to do when he 
returned his car. They  wouldnt  have been  experienced  collectors  or inspectors  and I can 
understand they would  have been unsure of the process. It was for MBFS to make sure the 
collection went smoothly and for all those reasons I think they should pay Mr K some  
compensation for the inconvenience hes experienced. But Im not persuaded it should be 
anymore than £150. I think thats  reasonable in the circumstances.
the safety recall  and the wheel alignment  costs
As Mr K hasnt  talked  to the customer assistance  centre about  these  issues,  and as MBFS 
directed him there, I dont  think  it would  be fair to suggest the business  has done anything  
wrong.
Mr K tells us he cant locate the receipts and without  these there  is a lack of evidence  that 
the alignment was necessary. So Im not persuaded to ask MBFS to take any further action  
on these points.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4711104