K822xComplaint
Mr S complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to increase his overdraft limit. 
Background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 19 August 2019 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what Lloyds should  do to put things  right. I invited both parties to send  any additional 
information or comments for me to consider.  
Mr S responded and said he had other  complaints about Lloyds decision to lend to him he 
wants us to consider  as part of this complaint. But those cases have been dealt with 
separately and dont form part of the investigation  for this complaint. 
Lloyds responded to say that it didnt  agree  with my decision to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Lloyds said Mr S overdraft applications had all passed its affordability and credit  
assessments and that its satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks were carried  out. 
Lloyds says that gambling and payday  loans would  only impact a lending  assessment if 
spending on those  items caused a default  or excess (arrears). 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I note what  Lloyds has said,  I 
havent been persuaded to change my decision.  
I note what Lloyds says about the affordability assessments it completed and the figures  it 
relied upon. But my provisional decision explained  why I thought  Lloyds decision to approve 
Mr S initial overdraft application based  on the information it had available was reasonable. I 
found that Lloyds didnt  complete proportionate checks when  it increased  Mr S overdraft 
limit of £2,500 on 31 May 2018  and £2,600  on 13 June 2018. Whilst I appreciate Mr S 
applications may have passed Lloyds application when he applied  online, I explained why I 
didnt think those checks went  far enough.  
My provisional decision sets out why I think Lloyds should have seen Mr S spending habits 
had changed and that it should have done  more to complete proportionate checks  to ensure 
the borrowing  was sustainable. Ive relooked  at the information available  and note that Mr S 
applied for a sharp increase in borrowing over a short  period  of time and that his spending 
on gambling rose considerably. In addition, Mr S had started to borrow from payday lenders 
which further indicates something had changed  and he was becoming dependent  on credit. 
I note what Lloyds says about gambling and payday  loans but I think  that, had it completed 
proportionate checks, it would have  seen Mr S was relying on credit and the debts he was 
accruing werent  sustainable in the long term. 
Mr S says he wants us to deal with his complaints about other credit hes held with Lloyds as 
part of this decision. But those cases have been  dealt  with separately with borrowing 
approved at different times and on different terms. Im satisfied I have enough information 
available to make  a decision about Lloyds  decision  to increase Mr S overdraft limit. 
Ref: DRN47980352Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence in light of Mr S and Lloyds most recent 
comments but havent been persuaded to change the decision I previously reached on 
19 August 2019.  As a result, Im upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank  PLC to refund overdraft 
interest and charges incurred on any balance over £1,500 since May 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN47980353Copy provisional decision dated 19 August 2019
Complaint
Mr S complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to increase his overdraft limit. 
Background
In March 2016  Mr S spoke  with Lloyds  and asked  it not to approve any further overdraft  limit 
increases and it added a note to his account. In February 2017 Lloyds removed the note. 
On 23 May 2018 Mr S successfully applied online  to increase his overdraft limit from £1,150 to 
£1,500. On 31 May 2018 Mr S applied to increase his overdraft again  and Lloyds approved a £2,500 
limit. Lloyds approved a final overdraft  application for £2,600 on 
13 June 2018. 
Mr S later complained and Lloyds responded on 18 December 2018 but didnt  agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. Lloyds said that it couldnt restrict a customers  ability to borrow indefinitely. As a result,  
on 22 February 2017 it removed  the account note requesting  no further borrowing.  
Lloyds also said Mr S applications were  completed online  and that it expects customers  to consider 
whether an increase in borrowing is affordable.  Lloyds  confirmed that Mr S overdraft  limit increases 
had been approved  after it considered information on his credit  file and how hed managed his 
accounts. But Lloyds offered  to refund £150 in overdraft charges and reduce  Mr S overdraft limit by 
£100. After Mr S accepted, Lloyds pointed out hed already  reduced his overdraft limit to £2,100.  
Mr S referred his complaint  to our service and an investigator looked at it. She didnt agree that Lloyds  
had lent irresponsibly  and said it had dealt with Mr S complaint  fairly. Mr S asked to appeal  so his 
complaints been passed  to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand Mr S had previously asked Lloyds to restrict future borrowing.  But Lloyds has confirmed  
that its policy  is to only apply restrictions of that type for around a year. I appreciate Mr S is unhappy 
that Lloyds went on to agree further increases but it can decide how to operate and what length of 
time to keep warnings  of that nature on file. I dont think Lloyds did anything  wrong by considering 
Mr S overdraft limit applications. 
I can see Mr S already  had an overdraft limit of £1,150 when  he applied to Lloyds for a limit increase  
to £1,500  on 23 May 2018.  Lloyds has provided  evidence  to show  Mr S applied on line and that his 
application was successful. Ive looked at the information Lloyds had at hand. It says there werent 
any concerns  on Mr S credit  file or with the way he ran his account. Ive looked  at Mr S account 
statements and can see it was maintained within the agreed limits. Although  I can see there were two 
reasonably large gambling transactions in the days running up to Mr S limit increase request, thats  
not something that regularly featured the account up to that point. From  what  Ive seen, I dont  think  
Lloyds decision to increase the overdraft limit to £1,500 on 23 May 2018 was unreasonable. 
I have more  concerns  about the next two increases.  Mr S applied to increase  his overdraft  again 
around a week later, on 31 May 2018. Again, this was an online application so was approved by 
Lloyds automated systems. But this was the second time in a very short period  that Mr S had applied  
to increase his overdraft limit which, looking at his account history, was unusual.  And I think that 
should have been a warning sign to Lloyds and caused it to take a closer look at the request. 
Ref: DRN47980354Whilst I cant tell Lloyds  how to assess overdraft  limit requests, I have to balance  that against its duty 
to ensure it completes  proportionate checks in order to ensure any borrowing it grants is sustainable.  
In this case, I think the fact that Mr S had requested an initial overdraft  limit increase of £350 followed 
by a second much larger increase of £1,000 a week later should have caused Lloyds to think about 
the checks  it completed and whether they were proportionate to the amount of money  Mr S was 
asking to borrow. I dont think Lloyds checks  were proportionate. 
I wanted to get a better understanding of Mr S financial  situation at the time so Ive looked at his bank 
statements. Between  23 May 2018 and 31 May 2018 Mr S increased  the level of online gambling 
considerably and spent £1,000. Thats much higher  than anything  Ive seen on Mr S earlier  
statements. Whilst  consumers can use their money to gamble, I think its reasonably clear something 
had changed in the way Mr S was using his overdraft.
I note that Lloyds response to Mr S complaint says for online  applications it expects  consumers  to 
consider whether the borrowing theyre applying  for is affordable. But I think its Lloyds  role to ensure 
it asks the right questions to ensure it lends responsibly.  
Given the sudden increase  in online  gambling  between 23 May 2018 and 31 May 2018 (when Mr S 
made his second request  to increase his overdraft limit) I think Lloyds should  have asked more  
questions. And, if it had, I think its unlikely  Lloyds would  have agreed to proceed with the overdraft  
limit increase. 
Lloyds agreed a final increase  to £2,500 a couple of weeks  later on 13 June 2018, the third request 
Mr S had made in a month. Again, I think Lloyds  failed to complete proportionate checks  and I think it 
would have been reasonably  clear Mr S was becoming  reliant on credit. Lloyds should have taken  
greater care when considering this credit  limit increase  and looked  at the evidence  available to decide  
how best to proceed. 
Again, I cant  tell Lloyds what steps to follow  when  considering whether  to approve a request. But I 
think it should  have asked more questions and I note it had access  to Mr S account statements. Ive 
looked at the statements  and can see that since the previous overdraft  limit was approved on 31 May 
2018 Mr S spent around £1,500 on online gambling.  I can also see that in the two days  leading up to 
the increase, Mr S had borrowed £1,000 from short term lenders. 
Had Lloyds completed proportionate  checks,  I think  its likely  it would have again found that Mr S wasnt 
managing his finances at this stage and that further  borrowing was unlikely to be sustainable. As a result, 
I agree with Mr S that Lloyds lent irresponsibly  when  it increased his overdraft  limit on 31 May 2018.  
I can see that Mr S overdraft  limit was reduce to £2,100  in the months after he complained. There 
seems to have been a misunderstanding concerning the terms of Lloyds existing offer. In its final 
response dated 18 December  2018 Lloyds offered to reduce  the overdraft  facility from £2,600 to 
£2,500 after refunding £150 of fees.  I agree  Lloyds  explanation should have been clearer. But I dont 
think it ever intended to pay off £100 of Mr S overdraft for him (beyond the charges it agreed to 
refund). Im satisfied that Lloyds offer was to refund  £150 of overdraft  charges and reduce  Mr S limit 
from £2,600 to £2,500. But by the time he accepted Mr S had reduced the limit below that point. I 
understand the limit now sits at £600. 
Whilst I cant tell Lloyds  how to assess overdraft  limit applications, it should  undertake proportionate 
checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case,  I havent  found  that the second and third 
increases (that took the limit from £1,500 to £2,600) were  proportionate.  Had Lloyds completed 
proportionate checks, I think it would have found a clear deterioration in the way Mr S was managing his 
finances and declined to proceed. As a result, I intend to partially uphold  this complaint and tell Lloyds to 
refund all interest and charges Mr S has paid on overdraft balances  above £1,500 since 31 May 2018.  
Ref: DRN47980355My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to refund 
overdraft interest and charges incurred  on any balance over £1,500 since 
May 2018.
Mr S and Lloyds Bank PLC have until 19 September 2019 to send me any additional information or 
comments they wish to make before  I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798035