K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr C complain  that TSB Bank  plc applied an early repayment  charge when they 
paid off their mortgage.
background
Mr B and Mr Cs mortgage included an early repayment charge if the mortgage was repaid 
on or before 31 January  2019.
In early January  2019 Mr B and Mr C were  sent a redemption statement, which showed no 
charges would be applied if the mortgage was repaid  on 1 February 2019, but interest would 
be charged each  day after this. Mr B says he wasnt going  to be able to get to the bank on 
1 February 2019,  so sent the redemption amount by CHAPS on 23 January 2019.  TSB then 
applied the early repayment charge.
Mr B and Mr C complained, saying they hadnt intended to repay the mortgage  early.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why 
below.
I understand that Mr B wasnt going  to be able to go into a branch on 1 February  2019  and I 
accept that it wasnt  his intention to pay off the mortgage early. But Ive not seen any 
suggestion that Mr B and Mr C discussed this with TSB before making the payment on 
23 January 2019.  And I think they could  have asked for the payment instruction  to be 
executed at a later date, rather than immediately. So I think  TSB acted reasonably when  it 
used the money  to redeem the mortgage  on the day it received it - 23 January 2019.
The redemption statement Mr B and Mr C were  sent shows no early  repayment charge will 
be applied. But it also says the redemption amount is worked  out on the assumption  that 
payment will be made  on 1 February  2019. So I dont think  this suggests the early  
repayment charge  wont be applied if payment is made before 1 February 2019.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer letter for Mr B and Mr Cs mortgage. And this clearly  
sets out that an early  repayment charge will be applied if the mortgage  is repaid on or before 
31 January 2019.  It also sets out how the charge  will be calculated. So I think  the early  
repayment charge  was made clear to Mr B and Mr C and that Mr B and Mr C agreed  to it 
when they took out the mortgage.
As a mortgage being settled early can often  be costly  for lenders, they will sometimes 
include an early repayment charge for borrowers to offset this cost. This doesnt have to 
represent the exact cost to the lender  of the mortgage being settled early, it can be a pre-
estimate of the cost.  And a mortgage  being settled early is often significantly more costly  
than a mortgage being settled late, so the early repayment charge may be significantly 
higher than any late payment charges.
Ref: DRN49723472The early  repayment  charge  TSB has applied in this case appears to have been calculated  
in line with how the mortgage offer letter said it would be calculated. So, as I think Mr B and 
Mr C agreed to this when taking out the mortgage, I dont think TSB has acted unreasonably 
in applying the charge.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr B and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  by 13 December 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4972347