K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about a loan made  to him by HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
background
Mr Y told us hed taken out a loan for £17,000  with HSBC in 2018. The interest rate on that 
loan was 6.7%. He said that later that year, he wanted to increase his borrowing by £4,000, 
but he was told he couldnt increase his existing loan. So he said he took out a fixed  term 
loan with HSBC  for £21,030. The interest rate on that loan was much higher, at 15.9%. 
Mr Y said that he was supposed  to have a right to withdraw from the loan within the first 14 
days. But he said that when he contacted HSBC and asked to withdraw  from it, he was told 
he couldnt reinstate  the old loan, so he would have  to pay £21.620.59  to withdraw. He said 
he couldnt do that then and still couldnt do it now. He said that HSBC hadnt told him that 
he couldve  taken out a different loan for £4,000.  If hed known he could  do that, he wouldve 
done that instead. 
Mr Y said that he now had to pay £375.67  every month instead of £227.63. He wanted  
HSBC either  to reinstate his old loan, or to reduce the interest  rate on his new loan.
HSBC said that it didnt think it had made a mistake. It said that it had told Mr Y, before he 
took out the loan, that If the loan is to repay  any other borrowing from us, withdrawing from 
the loan agreement will not reinstate your existing agreements. It showed  us the pre-
contract documents which do say that. 
HSBC said that Mr Y could end the loan within the 14 day cooling off period but hed have to 
pay the full balance minus any interest.  HSBC said that it had wrongly told Mr Y that he 
would need to pay interest  too if hed paid the money back  in the cooling off period. But it 
didnt think that Mr Y had been affected  by this mistake,  because he hadnt paid it back then. 
HSBC said that the staff member who spoke to Mr Y when he wanted to end the loan had 
tried to find a way for him to close the new loan and reinstate the old one, but the loan terms 
and conditions didnt  allow  that. 
HSBC said it knew Mr Y had told us that he didnt know  he could have two separate  loans 
instead of one consolidation loan. But HSBC said that the online screens that Mr Y wouldve 
seen when applying  for this loan gave him the choice to apply either  for a loan to consolidate 
his existing debt plus new borrowing, or a separate  loan just for new borrowing. It showed  us 
the application screens which said that.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBCs website, that Mr Y used 
to apply for his loan,  was clear about  the amount that Mr Y was borrowing and the interest 
rate that applied.  And it also told Mr Y that if he changed his mind about the loan, that 
cancelling this lending  wouldnt  reinstate any previous loan with HSBC  that Mr Y had paid off 
using the money  from this one. So she didnt think that HSBC had done anything  wrong.  
Mr Y didnt think that was fair. He said that he still thought that he shouldve  been given an 
option to add further lending to his existing loan,  rather than take out a new loan. He wanted 
his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman,  so this case  was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN40103972Mr Y then wrote to us to say that he only applied online because he couldnt see anyone  in a 
branch to apply  for this loan. And he said again that if hed known he could apply for a 
separate loan of £4,000,  he wouldve done that. Mr Y said that a right of withdrawal is no use 
when the whole amount of borrowing has to be repaid.  If hed had the full amount of the 
second loan, to be able to repay it, then he wouldnt have needed to borrow  money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr Y applied for a loan online, which would consolidate existing borrowing and extend his 
lending. Hes told us that the interest  rate he paid for this new loan was much higher than for 
his previous loan.  
Mr Y had only relatively recently  taken out quite a large personal loan, and was borrowing 
more. In these circumstances, it isnt unusual for a bank to ask him to pay a higher interest 
rate. Ive seen the application  process that Mr Y went through,  and I think  that HSBC did 
enough to alert Mr Y to the interest rate he would pay if he took this new loan.
Mr Y has asked  our service to reduce  this interest  rate for him. But our service wont usually 
do that. Banks are free to decide who they want to lend money to, and as part of that, to set 
the interest rate that they will charge  for that lending. Our service wont usually interfere  with 
that. And Im sorry to tell Mr Y that I cant see any reason to depart  from our usual approach  
here. 
Mr Y said that he didnt know that he could take out a separate  loan just for the extra  amount 
he wanted, instead of a larger loan that would combine his existing and new borrowing. But 
HSBC has shown us the online application  pages that Mr Y used  when he applied for this 
loan, and I think its clear that Mr Y did have the option to either take out a new, larger  loan 
to bring all his borrowing  together, or one smaller  loan just for the extra amount he wanted. 
So I dont  think that HSBC has misled Mr Y about this. 
Mr Y has also told us that he doesnt think the right to withdraw from borrowing within  the 
first 14 days  is any use, because the whole amount has to be repaid, and Mr Y wasnt able 
to do that. I do appreciate  that Mr Y was then in a difficult  position when he decided  he didnt 
want this new loan after all. He didnt have all the money to give back to HSBC, as some  of it 
had been used to pay off existing borrowing. But I dont  think that this was HSBCs fault.  It 
had taken steps to warn  Mr Y about  the impact of this new loan on his existing borrowing. 
Mr Y had a legal right to a cooling off period, which meant that he could withdraw from this 
new loan agreement shortly after it had been made. But theres no legal right to reinstate an 
old agreement which Mr Y has ended, because he paid off the borrowing. And I dont think  
that its unfair or unreasonable for HSBC  to just say that it wont reinstate that old 
agreement. Particularly  as HSBC has been able to show  our service that it did warn Mr Y 
about this, before he took out the new larger loan. 
I realise just how disappointing that this will be for Mr Y, but I dont think  that his complaint 
should be upheld.
Ref: DRN40103973my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4010397