K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H applied for the card and PPI in December 1995. She says she did this by filling  in a 
leaflet enclosed in a magazine  and returning  it by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Mrs H disagrees  with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
Our adjudicator mistakenly referred to there  being  arrears on the credit card account when in 
fact it was just a normal running balance. Mrs H is concerned that this has somehow  had a 
negative bearing  on her complaint. I can assure Mrs H that I fully understand that she isnt in 
arrears  and even if she was it would have  made  no difference  to my consideration of her 
complaint about  the policy being mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see from the application form that there was a separate section for PPI and that Mrs H 
has ticked a box in that section to accept  the policy. So it seems that she had an interest in 
protecting her credit card repayments.
Mrs H has a strong recollection of applying  for the card and PPI by post. Although  Barclays 
has been able to supply a copy of the application  form, it hasnt been able to confirm the 
sales channel, so the form could have been filled out in a branch. Therefore, in order  to treat 
Mrs H fairly,  Barclays treated the sale as an advised sale,  as it would have been  if it had 
been sold in branch. This actually holds  Barclays to a higher  standard or duty, because in 
addition to providing enough information about  the policy,  it also needed to ensure that it 
was suitable for her. Our adjudicator has followed on with the approach of treating the sale 
as advised, which seems fair.
Given that Mrs Hs recollection of the sale is so strong, I think it is most likely  that it was a 
postal sale and therefore a non-advised  or information only sale. Therefore Mrs H is right 
in saying that she wasnt asked about her sick pay or savings at the time  but Barclays  
didnt have to ask her about her personal  circumstances  in order  to establish if the policy  met 
her needs,  if it was a non-advised  postal  sale.
Ultimately, whether or not this was an advised sale doesnt make a difference  to my 
decision. Because, from what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, the policy  was 
actually suitable  for her. She says she would have received  some  sick pay from her job. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she 
would have received full pay for. Mrs H says she probably had some savings at the time. But 
Ref: DRN47581692having the policy would have allowed her to retain  these or to use them  to cover other 
outgoings at what  would  have been  a difficult time.
So, even if it was an advised sale, and even if Barclays failed to establish the policys  
suitability, Mrs H isnt any worse off because the policy met her needs  and she could have 
benefitted from it.
Barclays did have to provide Mrs H with enough information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
I think Mrs H must have  known something  about  the policy (that it protected her repayments 
if she was unable to work  due to illness or unemployment) because  I dont think she would 
have opted to buy it without knowing anything at all about what  it did.
Barclays says that the form Mrs H completed would have been part of a leaflet  that 
contained more  information about  the PPI. Its possible that Barclays  didnt provide as much  
information about the policy as it should  have, particularly about the things that it didnt 
cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those things. As she seems  to have had a clear 
interest in taking out the policy, I dont think that further information would have caused her 
to change her mind.
This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:  
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs H about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758169