K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that a package holiday she purchased using  a credit card provided  by 
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AMEX) was misrepresented to her and was 
not of an adequate standard.
background
Miss B paid for a holiday for herself  and her sister  using her AMEX credit  card.  The cost 
included flights and a hotel room but did not include local tax which was to be paid at the 
hotel. The total cost was £1,753.17.
Miss B was unhappy  with the hotel.  She said it didnt look like the pictures  on the website 
and there  were many problems with the accommodation; including:
the bathroom door would not close;
there was a hole in the bathroom  ceiling;
the bath taps were  loose;
there was broken  glass  in the window;
the air conditioning was loud;
a seat was ripped;
reading lamps were too high;
the gym was smaller than photographs  on the website suggested;
there was no milk provided  and no shower gel;
she suspected  there  were bed bugs as she had bites and she noticed crawling 
insects on the towels.
She complained to the holiday company just before departure and they offered Miss B £150 
as a goodwill  gesture.  Miss B was also promised  a refund of just over £111 of local tax by 
the hotel. But Miss B was dissatisfied with this offer so she referred her complaint to her 
credit card provider, AMEX,  with whom  she said she had a like complaint under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
AMEX said that it was only Miss B as the card holder who would  be covered by any section 
75 claim and that they could not consider a claim for her sisters  expenses.  They noted that 
the holiday companys offer had been  in full and final settlement so they would not provide 
any further compensation.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his view on her 
complaint. He didnt  think the holiday companys offer had been in full and final settlement as 
there was no mention  of this until after the compensation had been paid to Miss B. So he 
thought it was fair to consider Miss Bs complaint.
He thought there was evidence of a breach  of contract as the photographic  evidence 
provided by Miss B suggested  the hotel had fallen short  of the standard  she would have 
expected. He agreed that Miss Bs sisters expenses could  not be considered.  So he was 
only prepared to consider half of the sum paid. He noted that Miss B had received 
satisfactory flights and some facilities at the hotel but he didnt think  shed  received  sufficient  
compensation and he therefore  suggested  a further  £160 was paid by AMEX  which  would 
mean that Miss B had received £310  in total. He understood that Miss B had explained she 
hadnt received  the refund  of local tax from the hotel but he explained that as this wasnt 
included in the cost of the holiday it would not be fair to ask AMEX to pay it.
Ref: DRN41659382AMEX agreed with the adjudicators view but Miss B didnt. She said her individual  
circumstances hadnt been taken into account and that she had a disorder that meant her 
anxiety levels were  already very high and her sleep was therefore  affected more than it 
would have been for a normal person. So Miss B asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B but I agree with the adjudicators view of this complaint.  
Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss B made a claim through  them  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Ive reviewed the photographic evidence provided  by Miss B and Im persuaded that the 
accommodation wasnt of the standard that a reasonable person would have expected  when 
making this booking. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have a broken 
window; a hole in the ceiling; loose taps or a bathroom door that would not close. I 
understand theres some dispute  about  whether bed bugs were  present at the 
accommodation but Im persuaded  by Miss Bs photographic evidence and comments  the 
adjudicator considered of similar problems noted  on review sites,  that its most  likely bed 
bugs were present.  In all of those circumstances, I dont think the standard of the 
accommodation was adequate and I therefore  think there has been a breach of contract.
There are a number of mitigating factors Ive taken into account when considering what 
compensation would be appropriate. Ive not taken  Miss Bs sisters half of the costs into 
account as she wasnt the debtor and didnt have the necessary relationship with the credit 
provider (AMEX) to make a claim against them under section 75.
Ref: DRN41659383Ive also noted  that theres no complaint about  the flights  and that Miss B didnt make  a 
complaint to the hotel at the time.  That would have  limited the potential for them, or the 
holiday company,  to put things right.
AMEX say that the £150 thats already  been  paid was in full and final settlement but I dont 
think that was the basis  upon which Miss B agreed to that compensation. The full and final 
settlement wasnt mentioned until after the payment was made. So I think  its fair and 
reasonable to consider if any further  compensation is due and having  considered  all of the 
circumstances I think the adjudicators suggestion  is fair in the circumstances and that 
AMEX should  pay Miss B a further £160.
I was sorry to hear of Miss Bs disorder  and the difficult time she has been having.  I dont  
think it would  be reasonable to expect  AMEX to take that in to account as Ive not seen 
evidence the holiday company were  aware  of Miss Bs exceptional  circumstances and had 
been given the opportunity to make  adjustments for them.  So I dont think this is a reason to 
increase the refund thats being ordered.
I understand that Miss B wasnt received  the refund of tax that the hotel offered. As that tax 
is not something that was funded by the credit  provided by AMEX it would not be fair for me 
to suggest they pay it. The missing payment  is something Im afraid Miss B will need  to take 
up with the hotel.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell American Express 
Services Europe Limited to pay Miss B £160  to compensate her for the breach of contract 
shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4165938