K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the amount  of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has 
offered him in relation  to the mis-sale  of payment protection insurance  (PPI)  on his 
credit card.
background
Mr Gs complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card. The credit  
card was taken out in 1998.
Mr G complained to Lloyds that PPI had been  mis-sold. Lloyds agreed PPI was mis-sold and 
calculated how much it owed Mr G in compensation. Its offer was designed to place Mr G, as 
far as is possible, in the position he would be in now if he hadnt taken PPI.
It did this by reconstructing  Mr Gs account  to see what it would have looked like, with and 
without, PPI. It worked out the difference to be £4,606.16. So it offered to refund that to 
Mr G. And it also offered compensation to Mr G for being out of pocket of that money. This 
came to £3,382.67  (after  tax).
So, in total,  Lloyds worked  out it owed Mr G £7,988.83 (after tax). This was paid to Mr G in 
November 2018.
Mr G was unhappy with this amount. Mr G explained that he was unable to meet his 
repayments which resulted in him struggling  financially and entering into an individual  
voluntary arrangement (IVA).  Mr G says had he not had PPI then he would have been able 
to maintain his monthly credit card payments   and wouldnt have  entered into an IVA.  
So Mr G wants  Lloyds to compensate him further.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and thought Lloyds offer was fair and that it didnt 
need to do anything further.  
As Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and as the complaint hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds  has already  agreed to settle Mr Gs PPI mis-sale complaint I wont  be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold  because thats not in dispute. 
So I need to consider whether or not Lloyds has offered fair compensation, in line with our 
approach, when we find that a PPI policy has been  mis-sold.
Lloyds offer
Broadly speaking, when  I decide, or a business  agrees,  that a PPI policy  has been mis-sold, 
Id expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they 
not taken out the PPI policy, as far as is possible. 
Ref: DRN45160862With a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card this typically  means a refund of all the PPI 
premiums charged,  the credit card interest charged because  of the PPI, any fees/charges 
directly caused by the PPI policy and 8% simple  interest  to compensate  the consumers 
for the time theyve been without the money.
Lloyds has restructured the whole account  to show  what the balance would have been 
without any PPI added. And its offered to refund those premiums  and the interest that was 
charged on them and also any fees that were caused by the PPI. Lloyds has also added 8% 
simple interest per year on the extra it thought Mr G had paid because of the PPI. 
Having looked  at Lloyds offer of compensation it includes all the elements Id expect to see.
But upon  closer  inspection, I think Lloyds offer is more than generous.  Ill explain why.
I can see in late 2007 Mr G got into financial difficulty. Lloyds has provided statements  
showing Mr Gs account was charged  off with around £12,000 outstanding. 
It is important  to note that with PPI, it is charged to the outstanding and ongoing balance. As 
Mr G hadnt fully repaid  his outstanding  balance  he hadnt fully paid for the PPI. 
The amount  that Lloyds  had calculated for the compensation could have gone to reducing 
what Mr G owed and so reducing the amount  written  off by Lloyds. That would have the 
effect of placing  Mr G and the credit  card account  in the position  as if PPI had not been 
added. 
Given the above I dont think that Lloyds needed  to pay Mr G anything at all. But in this case  
Lloyds has paid Mr G directly  and that seems more than fair.
Also, I think the amount  of additional compensation Lloyds paid Mr G was generous.  The 
additional compensation is there to compensate a consumer for being out of pocket. So as 
Mr G hadnt fully repaid  the outstanding balance, he hadnt actually paid for the PPI and so 
wasnt out of pocket. But again,  Lloyds  has offered  and paid Mr G this compensation, which 
is more than fair.
Mr Gs main concern
Mr Gs main complaint is that he is unhappy that had he not had PPI then he wouldnt have 
entered into an IVA. And Mr G thinks he is owed further additional compensation for this.
I understand Mr Gs reasoning, but I disagree. Mr G had an outstanding balance  of around 
£12,000  and without PPI being  charged  while it would  have  been  less, Mr G still had a 
considerable balance that hadnt  been  fully repaid. And it isnt known what Mr Gs balance  
would have been or what his spend  would have  been without PPI. 
While Mr G says he would  have been  able to meet his minimum repayments  it is just as 
likely that his spending and balance could have  still increased to the card limit. I cant safely  
say that had Mr G not had PPI that he would  have been able to meet his repayments. 
Ref: DRN45160863Mr G, in the end clearly struggled to meet the repayments and took the step to enter  into an 
IVA. Had he not had PPI I cant reasonably conclude that this wouldnt have happened.  So I 
dont uphold Mr Gs complaint on this point and dont  award  any further additional  
compensation.
Finally, as Mr G entered into an IVA I would like to add that there are usually terms within the 
IVA agreement that sets out what happens if a consumer receives any assets after the IVA 
has been completed. The PPI compensation may well be considered an asset and the 
insolvency practitioner may have an interest  in the compensation under the terms of Mr Gs 
IVA agreement. So Mr G should contact his insolvency  practitioner and let them know about  
the compensation he received. There may be legal consequences if he doesnt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Lloyds Bank PLCs offer is more than fair. As the 
amount has been  paid to Mr G, Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not need  to do anything  further in 
relation to the compensation of the mis-sold PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4516086