K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about shortcomings in the online system operated by Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited that didnt allow him to change his bank details in 
June 2018 for the direct  debit he used  to make contributions to an ISA. 
So, he cancelled the direct debit instruction and attempted to complete a fresh  mandate 
online. But he couldnt do so online, or via email,  and feels  its unsatisfactory that he could 
only change his bank  details by telephone during office hours or by completing  and posting 
a direct debit form he could download from Hargreaves Lansdowns  website.
Also, the banking  system required at least 10 working days to process a direct debit 
mandate submitted by post.  So, his contribution for July 2018 couldnt be taken in time.
Specifically, Mr T has said that:
when he cancelled the direct debit, and Hargreaves  Lansdown advised him he could 
complete a fresh mandate over the telephone, it didnt  quote opening times for this 
telephone line and, when he called, its office  was closed;
if it had been  open when it was convenient  for him to call, he could have resolved this 
matter promptly over the telephone;
Hargreaves Lansdown gave  him no indication until sometime later that it wasnt  
possible to restart  his monthly contributions immediately;
although he received a message when  he cancelled  his direct debit to confirm that he 
could restart them after a short time, there  was no indication how long it would 
actually take.  As it was, it took more than a week to reinstate  his monthly 
contributions, which  is unacceptable.
Mr T has also complained that Hargreaves Lansdown claims not to have received a secure 
message he sent during the course of his original complaint. He hadnt retained a copy  of it 
and didnt have  the time to rewrite it.
background
In response, Hargreaves Lansdown confirmed to Mr T that there was no facility to update his 
bank account  details through his online account - currently, he could only do so over the 
telephone or by completing a new direct  debt mandate.  It quoted the opening hours  of its 
Helpdesk line which are given on its website  page: How do I amend  regular  savings?  If 
Mr T had called this telephone  number, he could have updated his bank details immediately.
And, although the deadline had passed for setting  up regular contributions  starting in July 
2018, Mr T could have made a manual payment for July 2018  from his online account, or 
over the telephone.
Hargreaves Lansdown maintained that it hadnt  received a secure message Mr T says he 
sent on 30 June  2018 - all messages should appear  in your sent messages on his online  
account. It asked him to resend it. But Mr T wasnt prepared  to do so - he would need to 
rewrite it from memory  as he hadnt  kept a copy,  and he didnt have time to do that.
Notwithstanding this, Hargreaves Lansdown  advised  Mr T that his complaint about  the 
secure message  didnt  concern a regulated activity and it, therefore, wouldnt be issuing a 
final response letter to his complaint about this matter.
Ref: DRN42481022Mr T confirmed that the secure message Hargreaves  Lansdown  didnt receive essentially 
explained why its initial response to his first complaint hadnt answered the specific  points 
hed made.  And, as he remained dissatisfied  that Hargreaves Lansdown hadnt satisfactorily 
responded to his complaint, he was beginning the process of transferring  all his investment 
to other  providers.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who asked  Mr T how he was 
advised of the telephone number to call once hed cancelled his direct debit instruction. 
In line with the explanation given by Hargreaves Lansdown, Mr T confirmed that a message 
appeared on his online  account advising that he couldnt restart his savings contributions for 
a short  time and providing a telephone number to call. But this number was different to the 
Helpdesk number, it didnt  appear elsewhere  on its website and gave  no opening hours.  
When he called the number, he was advised  that the office was closed.
Mr T added that he tried to restart  his contributions from the website several  times  and it 
took more than one month to do so, which falls outside what he would regard as a short 
time.
Briefly, the investigator  explained that:
our service resolves disputes  informally as an alternative to the courts. If she 
thought Hargreaves Lansdown had done something wrong, we would look to put 
the error  right for Mr T;
but we are unable to require Hargreaves Lansdown to make changes to its systems 
and procedures in response to an individual  complaint;
when Mr T found that he wasnt able to change his bank details on an existing direct 
debit mandate  as Hargreaves Lansdowns  website  didnt offer this facility,  he 
attempted to resolve the matter over the telephone largely outside normal  business  
hours;
while Hargreaves Lansdown  confirmed to Mr T that he needed to change  his bank 
account on the direct debit instruction  over the telephone, or by submitting a fresh 
mandate by post,  he wasnt informed of this when he cancelled his existing direct  
debt instruction;
but Hargreaves Lansdowns opening  hours seem accommodating. And, although 
these hours didnt appear to suit Mr T, our service  isnt able to prescribe when a 
business should man  its telephone lines;
also, how Hargreaves Lansdown accepts payment instructions is entirely at its 
discretion and she say that Hargreaves Lansdown had done  anything wrong by not 
allowing Mr T to change his bank details online;
Mr T feels he should have been pre-warned that he wouldnt be able to change his 
bank details online. But theres  nothing  on Hargreaves Lansdowns website that 
would have led Mr T to believe that you could have made this change to his payment 
instructions. A warning to this effect  might have prompted Mr T not to cancel  his 
direct debit  instruction  entirely. But it wasnt obliged  to provide such a warning. And, 
in any event, Mr T would have still needed to call them for the change to go through  
immediately;
with regard to the timescale for the change to take place, Hargreaves Lansdown 
doesnt confirm  what it means by a short time. But the essential  message  Mr T 
received was that he couldnt restart the contributions online and he was given an 
alternative method  of doing  so;
Ref: DRN42481023even though opening hours werent  given with the specialist telephone number that 
appeared on Mr Ts account when he cancelled his contributions, Hargreaves 
Lansdowns opening hours  are listed elsewhere  and it would be a reasonable to 
assume that they applied generally;
once Mr T contacted Hargreaves Lansdown, it explained that he would need to 
complete and post a direct debit form he could download from its website even though it 
wouldnt have been as timely as a telephone call;
the secure message Mr T says has been mislaid by Hargreaves Lansdown doesnt 
appear on its secure messaging  outbox for 30 June  2018.  So, while she doesnt  
disbelieve Mr T when  he says he sent it, the evidence does suggest that Hargreaves 
Lansdown didnt  receive it.
In her view, Mr T has not been unfairly treated, alternative means of changing his direct  debit 
instruction were offered and these seem reasonable.  So, the investigator didnt think  it would 
be fair for Hargreaves Lansdown  to compensate Mr T for any inconvenience he may have 
suffered in this matter.
In response, Mr T disagreed with the investigators assessment and said that:
if Hargreaves Lansdown had published  that it wasnt  possible to restart  regular  
savings immediately, he wouldn't  have  wasted time trying to do so;
if a telephone number is given in the event of a problem with no opening times 
shown, he could  reasonably assume  that the line is manned 24 hours. He wouldnt 
have wasted time and money  calling Hargreaves Lansdown when it wasnt  open;
a number of emails were exchanged before Hargreaves  Lansdown  advised  him that 
he could post his fresh direct debit form. It hadnt  told him this in response to his 
initial complaint, as the investigator implies;
the investigator didnt  need to confirm what hed already  said - that the secure 
message he sent to Hargreaves  Lansdown  in late June 2018  hadnt appeared in his 
sent messages. His concern is the time he spent composing a message,  only for 
the Hargreaves Lansdown software  to discard  it when he submitted it. He didnt 
realise for seven  days that this message hadnt  been received because  it didnt give 
him an error message when it was sent. Hargreaves Lansdown hasnt investigated  
the cause of this failure and hasnt even  apologised for it.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has complained that Hargreaves  Lansdown didnt receive a secure message from him 
in late June 2018 and the online  platform didnt notify him that it hadnt received it either. 
This complaint from Mr T concerns an activity  that isnt regulated  and it therefore doesnt  fall 
within my jurisdiction to consider. 
Notwithstanding this, I cant intervene  in the systems and procedures  adopted by 
Hargreaves Lansdown even if Mr T believes they lack the capability he expects.  The role of 
our service  is not to penalise businesses for perceived shortcomings in their systems or 
require them to amend them on the outcome  of one dispute - we resolve individual  
complaints where  a consumer has suffered a financial loss if a businesss process is at fault 
and has failed them.       
Ref: DRN42481024And, in any event, theres no evidence on which I could form an opinion on this matter as no 
entry appears on the your sent messages list of Mr Ts online account and he isnt able to 
provide a copy of the message he says he sent.  Mr T has since confirmed that, essentially,  
his message was simply that Hargreaves Lansdown  hadnt  answered any of the complaint  
points hed made a month earlier, which had been evident anyway from his ongoing 
correspondence.
As such,  I need  to assess whether Mr T has suffered a financial  loss as a consequence of 
something Hargreaves Lansdown has done wrong.
My understanding is that, in June 2018,  Mr T changed the bank account  from which  he 
wished to continue  paying his monthly contributions to a savings plan. Accordingly, he 
needed to alter his direct  debit instruction and tried to do so online around 9.00pm on 
22 June 2018.  
Mr T was able to change online the amount  he pays to regular savings and his choice of 
investment funds, but not the direct debit instruction itself. So, he took the decision to cancel 
the direct  debit and set up a new mandate, following which his account received a message 
that: Your monthly savings plan has been  stopped. For a short period it will not be possible 
to restart your monthly savings plan online, in the meantime please call us on 0117 980 
9957 if you wish to restart  your plan.
No opening hours  are given for this direct telephone number and my reading of this 
message is that Mr T would not be able to restart his plan unless he called this number - he 
could amend his monthly contribution and investment funds online  but not his direct  debit 
instruction. Hence, it was possible  for his plan to be restarted  so he could manage  it online 
after a short period providing he first called Hargreaves Lansdown on the telephone number 
given.
I acknowledge Mr Ts point  that, if no opening  hours are given for this number, he could be 
forgiven for thinking that this telephone  line was manned 24 hours a day. And this number 
doesnt appear elsewhere on Hargreaves  Lansdowns website either.
But, given it seems Mr T did call this number at the time and received a message that the 
office was closed,  he knew  very soon  thereafter that this was not a 24-hour service. And, 
given all telephone  numbers quoted on Hargreaves  Lansdowns website have the same 
extended opening hours - 8.00am-7.00pm on Monday-Thursday, 8.00am-6.00pm on Friday 
and 9.30am-12.30pm  on Saturday - in my view, Mr T could suppose that the telephone 
number he was given  operated during these  hours  as well.   
I can see that Mr T emailed Hargreaves Lansdown around 30 minutes  later to report  that he 
was having problems restarting his plan,  asking for his account to be reset, so I can restart 
my savings at my new bank account.
Hargreaves Lansdown responded to this email on the next working day to explain  that he 
couldnt amend  his bank details online, or by email.  To recommence his direct  debit, it 
provided him a telephone number to call during the same  office  hours quoted above. And, if 
he did so by 28 June,  his monthly premium for July 2018 could still be collected. Otherwise, 
he could complete a direct debit form available to download from its website and post it to an 
address provided.  Hargreaves  Lansdown did explain  that it would take at least 10 working 
days to process this written instruction. But, in the meantime, Mr T could make  a manual 
payment online,  or over the telephone,  for the July 2018 premium.
Ref: DRN42481025In the event, Mr Ts direct debit instruction was reinstated  by 2 July 2018 and the next 
monthly premium was taken in August  2018. 
While Mr T has said that it took more than a month  to restart his plan, it was reinstated within 
seven working days. It was his monthly premium  that didnt recommence until August 2018.  
But Mr T did have time to make a manual payment  for July 2018  once  his plan had restarted 
if hed called the telephone number Hargreaves Lansdown had given him on 25 June.
 
I appreciate from the timing of Mr Ts emails to Hargreaves Lansdown that he uses an online 
platform to manage his savings and investments because he does work extended hours. So 
I understand why he would  want  a service that enables him to manage his investments 
outside normal office hours. 
But, on this occasion,  he took it upon himself to cancel his direct debit instruction and set up 
a new mandate  when  he could have called the Investment Helpdesk the following day to 
change his bank  details without cancelling the direct debt instruction at all. And, even though 
he did cancel the mandate, I think Hargreaves Lansdown provided  sufficient means  for him 
to reinstate it in time to meet the next monthly premium due on 7 July 2018.
All things  considered, I dont think the financial loss or inconvenience  Mr T says hes 
suffered in this matter  can be attributed to shortcomings he believes exist in the online 
platform offered by Hargreaves Lansdown.        
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4248102