K820x#14complaint
Ms K and Mr C are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc refused to fix their roof 
under their home emergency  insurance  policy. 
All references to RSA include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims.
background
On 6 December  2018 Ms K and Mr C had some  water coming into their hall. They called  
their buildings insurance company who said they wouldnt be covered under  their policy  as 
there wasnt a storm. So they contacted RSA under their home emergency policy. RSA said 
they would  send someone out to look at their roof that day but no one attended. 
On 7 December  2018 RSA assessed  the roof but said it wouldnt be able to fix the leak. Mr C 
called RSA to question this decision as the policy said RSA would make repairs to the roof to 
make it watertight and prevent further damage. RSA said it was up to Ms K and Mr C to 
maintain the roof and it would only do a temporary  repair if they were covered under the 
policy for the damage. They were unhappy  with this decision  so they made a complaint to 
RSA. They  felt the delay in sending  out a builder  had caused further damage to their hall. 
RSA issued a final response,  dated 18 December 2018, maintaining  its decision to reject the 
claim. On 21 December 2018 RSA sent them another  letter with a cheque for £25. RSA said 
the £25 compensation was offered because it had failed to manage their expectations about 
what was covered under the policy when  they made the claim.  So Ms K and Mr C brought 
their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but decided not to uphold  it. RSA told the 
investigator that it had spoken to the builder who had said a temporary repair such  as adding  
tarpaulin wouldnt have  worked. Our investigator  felt the damage  wasnt  covered under the 
policy as the tradesman had said the leak was due to a maintenance issue. He also felt RSA 
didnt guarantee  a same day service and that the £25 offered by RSA was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ms K and Mr C didnt agree. They feel the delay  in RSA sending a builder to their property 
caused more damage  and didnt  know why doing a temporary repair  wouldnt have worked. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. And Ill explain why below. 
The terms and conditions  say the policy doesnt cover normal  day to day household 
maintenance and in the specific section for roofs it also says gutters  arent covered. RSAs  
builders were sent to the property and took photos of the damage. In their opinion the water  
was entering the property  due to a crack in the cement and the valley gutter needed  to be 
repointed. After reviewing  the exclusion, the photos and the explanation  from RSAs builder, 
Im satisfied the claim has been declined fairly  and in line with the policy. 
I accept the terms and conditions of the policy do say RSA will make repairs  to the roof and 
make it watertight. But the builder who visited the property said this wasnt  possible in his 
Ref: DRN44508652opinion due to the location  of the damage.  Therefore, he didnt think  covering the cracks with 
tarpaulin would help here. I havent seen any evidence to show a temporary repair  would 
have been possible  or that tarpaulin  would have worked so Im satisfied the builders opinion 
wasnt unreasonable in this instance. 
I note Ms K and Mr C are unhappy RSA said a builder  would attend  on 6 December but they 
didnt attend the property  until 7 December. They feel this caused a delay and further 
damage to their property.
Ive listened to the calls provided and Ive heard RSA telling Ms K and Mr C it had booked  an 
appointment for 6 December. Im sure it wouldve been disappointing to hear the builder 
wasnt coming out to the property on the date arranged. And Im satisfied RSA made a 
mistake by not telling  Ms K and Mr C early  enough. But even if RSA had told them straight  
away they couldnt get an engineer to the property until 7 December, Im not satisfied they 
would have done anything differently on this occasion. Ms K and Mr C had already been told 
their buildings insurance policy didnt cover the damage. And RSA wouldnt have known 
whether the damage to the roof wasnt covered  and that a temporary repair wasnt possible 
until the builder  inspected the property.  So I think its likely Ms K and Mr C would still have 
wanted to wait and see what RSAs decision wouldve  been  before taking action themselves 
to fix the roof. 
RSA offered £25 for not managing Ms K and Mr Cs expectations about the roof in the initial  
phone call. Its also said this covers the delay in getting a builder out to their property. 
Overall, I think thats a fair amount given whats happened here. So I dont think  RSA needs 
to do any more to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4450865