K820x#14complaint
Mrs N and Mr S complain  that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance  Society Limited  (RL) 
unfairly declined  a critical illness claim under the assurance policies they held.
background
In January 2004 Mrs N took out a level term assurance policy  to protect  her mortgage in the 
event she died or was diagnosed with a specified critical illness. And in May 2005 her 
husband Mr S took out a level term assurance policy that would pay a benefit in the event  
that Mrs N died or was diagnosed with a specified critical illness. Both policies were taken 
out on the advice of an RL adviser.
In June 2006 Mrs N was diagnosed with familial macular dystrophy in both eyes, an inherited 
eye condition that affects vision. Over time her vision deteriorated so that by August 2015  
she was severely visually  impaired. So in November 2017 Mrs N and Mr S made a claim  
under the critical  illness parts of their policies. 
RL assessed the claim.  It asked Mrs N why, when the policies were taken out, she hadnt  
told it about her familys history of macular  dystrophy,  about  being reviewed for the same 
condition by an ophthalmology clinic in May 2002  and December 2003, or about the further  
review planned  for 12 months later. Mrs N said shed relied on the adviser when she bought 
the polices, and answered his questions to the best of her abilities. She said the adviser 
didnt ask about her health information  and just printed the forms and asked her to sign them 
at the bottom, which she did.
RL declined both claims on the basis of misrepresentation  in other  words,  that Mrs N 
hadnt told it about her relevant medical history. It said that if Mrs N had told it about this, it 
would have applied  a loss of vision exclusion to both policies. It asked Mrs N and Mr S to 
sign an amendment to their policies excluding claims  for loss of vision.
Mrs N again told RL the adviser hadnt  asked about  her health information,  that hed only 
asked Mrs N for general information such as her name, address and date of birth. RL treated 
this as a complaint. In its final response  it said the adviser had carried out a fact find in both 
2004 and 2005, and that a health  questionnaire was completed which Mrs N had signed  to 
confirm shed given  correct answers. RL said it was Mrs Ns responsibility to ensure the 
answers were correct.
Mrs N remained  unhappy so she referred her complaint  to our service. RL said the adviser 
would have gone through the application with Mrs N using a laptop  and asked her the health  
questions as they came up on the screen,  as this was its standard process.
After looking into things,  our investigator  thought it was more  likely than not that the adviser 
asked Mrs N the health questions when each  policy was taken  out. She said Mrs N had 
signed the health questionnaires so it was reasonable to think shed read them.  She thought  
Mrs N had made a careless  misrepresentation, and that RL had acted fairly in applying a 
loss of vision exclusion once it found  out about  that. 
Mrs N disagreed. She said she didnt have  any diagnosis  when the policies were  taken  out. 
She said the adviser had misrepresented her and if he hadnt, RL could  have just charged 
her higher  premiums instead of excluding loss of vision cover or declining  the claim.
Ref: DRN46758472Because Mrs N disagreed, her complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
I wasnt present at the two meetings Mrs N had with the adviser  when the policies were 
taken out, so I cant be certain  what was discussed. And Mrs N and RL give conflicting 
accounts of what  happened in those  meetings.  Therefore, I must make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities - that is, what I think is more likely  than not to have happened. To 
think about this, Ive considered the evidence I do have, including  the testimony Mrs N has 
given, RLs system  records  and the health  questionnaires Mrs N signed.
As these  policies were  sold before the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 came into force, I havent considered it as part of this decision.  
Instead, Ive taken into account  the appropriate industry  guidance that was in place at the 
time RL made its decision. This is called, Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly 
 ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness  and 
Income Protection Insurance Products April 2013. Ill refer to this as the code.
Mrs N has said she didnt have a diagnosis at the time the policies were taken out, and I can 
see her medical records confirm this. But the health  questionnaires  for each policy  asked a 
series of questions about Mrs Ns health,  including:
"1. Is the life proposed at present:
a)receiving, awaiting  or about to seek medical treatment, investigation or advice or 
suffering from any symptoms of any illness except a cold or flu?
b)taking any medicine  or pills?
c)under  supervision  by any hospital  or clinic?"
"2. In the last 5 years, has the life proposed:
a) seen  any doctor for any condition not disclosed in answer  to Question 1?
b) attended any hospital or clinic for treatment,  investigation or periodic review?"
"6. Before attaining the age of 60, did any natural parent, brother  or sister of the life 
proposed suffer  from any heart  disease, high blood pressure, stroke,  diabetes, multiple 
sclerosis, kidney  disease, cancer  or any hereditary  disorder? If YES, state  below the 
condition(s) and age(s) at diagnosis"
The answer to these questions are recorded  as No for both applications. But Mrs Ns 
medical history shows these werent correct answers. She was first seen by a hospital 
ophthalmology department in May 2002  due to a family history  of macular dystrophy (an 
inherited condition), though Mrs N herself  had no symptoms at that time. Ophthalmology 
reviewed her again in December  2003  it was noted she still had no symptoms but would 
be reviewed again  in a year. So the answers to these questions  should have been Yes.
As Ive said,  I cant be certain what was discussed when Mrs N met the adviser on those  two 
occasions. But on balance, I think its more likely  than not that the adviser asked  Mrs N the 
health questions  on those occasions.  I say that because RL has said its standard  process  
was for the adviser to go through  the application on a laptop. And RLs system records  show 
Ref: DRN46758473that the adviser created  a client profile on each occasion,  which  suggests the adviser was 
following the standard process RL has described.
In any case, Mrs N says she was given a printed copy of the health  questionnaire to sign 
and the health questions  were set out in it. I appreciate Mrs N says she was relying  on the 
adviser. But she was applying to enter a contract  with RL so she still had some  responsibility 
to be sure the information submitted as part of that application was correct.  I can see that at 
the end of both health  questionnaires, theres a section that says TO BE READ  AND 
SIGNED BY THE LIFE PROPOSED I have  read the answers given in the Health 
Questionnaire section  and confirm  they are correct. So Mrs N was being asked to read it 
and ensure everything was correct. And she signed  both health  questionnaires.
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs N to have read the health questionnaire, and the 
answers the adviser gave on her behalf, before signing to say everything was correct - after 
all, thats what  she was being asked  to sign to confirm. But thats not what  Mrs N says 
happened. She says the adviser didnt ask her any health questions  but printed the forms 
out and asked her to sign them, which she did. And that she answered the advisers  
questions to the best of her ability. Nonetheless, the health questionnaire she signed to 
confirm was correct  did in fact contain  incorrect information. Therefore I cant  say Mrs N took 
reasonable care to be sure that all the questions had been  answered correctly - in other 
words, Im satisfied she made a careless  misrepresentation.
So I dont  think it was unreasonable of RL to conclude that Mrs N made  a misrepresentation 
at the start of both these policies. And those misrepresentations made a difference, because  
the incorrect answers meant RL provided  loss of sight  cover for Mrs N under both policies 
whereas its underwriting guidance  shows RL would have excluded this had it been given 
correct answers.
The code says that in these circumstances  RL can do what  it would have done  at the start, 
had it had the correct information. Mrs N says RL could have just charged her higher 
premiums, but as Ive said its underwriting guidance  shows it would have still provided cover 
but excluded loss of vision cover for Mrs N from both policies. So its not unfair  for RL to do 
that now, as thats  the position  Mrs N and Mr S would  always  have been in if not for Mrs Ns 
misrepresentations. So it follows a claim for loss of vision under these policies would never  
have been payable. Therefore Im not asking RL to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4675847