K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2011.  Capital One sold Mr B the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Capital One disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. But I reached a different view of 
the case, and so I sent out a provisional decision and asked for comments. This is what I 
said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I dont currently think this PPI policy was mis-sold. I will explain  why.
I think Capital One made  Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional, and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. Capital One 
has given us details  of its online application process  used at that time. This set out 
the PPI as a choice, and the customer had to actively  choose PPI if they wanted it. 
And Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs credit agreement  which he signed  and this has 
ticked on it that he wants to apply for PPI, with his printed-name/electronic-signature 
confirming this, separately from where he signed the overall  agreement. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mr Bs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. But it still had to give him clear  information about it, so he could 
decide whether  or not to have it. And I think the information Capital One gave Mr B 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think, in his 
circumstances, full information about its costs  and benefits would have affected 
whether he took the PPI. This is because:
Mr B has said he wasnt entitled to workplace benefits  though this may have 
been because  he thought, when  he made  this complaint,  he was self-
employed at the time. But, even if he was entitled to some  work benefits, 
theyd have had to be especially generous before Id say it made the PPI of 
limited use to him. 
Mr B says he could have asked for help from his partner, at least for a month. 
But the PPI is likely  to have paid out for a much longer period than this. 
Mr B originally said he was self-employed when the PPI was sold in 2011. But he has 
since confirmed he started  his self-employment in 2012. So the policy terms applying 
to self-employment wouldnt have put him off the PPI, at the time it was actually  sold 
to him. 
Ref: DRN46767952Mr B says he had a surgical  operation  some  years before applying for the credit  card.  
And at that time he had a couple of weeks off work.  This was why the adjudicator 
said the complaint  should be upheld. The adjudicator didnt think Mr B had been 
given enough  information about restrictions in the PPI policy about pre-existing 
medical conditions. But Mr B hasnt  at present told us anything  to suggest  that, once 
hed had his operation, he had continuing problems when he took out the PPI which  
might have led to a claim. So I dont think hed have been put off the PPI, even if 
Capital One had drawn these restrictions to his attention better. 
So on balance I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. And if I confirm  my view, it will 
mean Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
Capital One has said it will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr B about that. Because Capital One 
didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
Mr Bs representatives said he had no further comments  to make in response  to my 
provisional decision. Capital One did not make further comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons Ive given above, Ive 
decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But Capital One does have to pay back  some of the cost of 
the PPI, as Ive explained. 
what Capital  One must do
If it has not already  done so:
Capital One has to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back to Mr B any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the 
difference between  what  Mr B owes and what he would have  owed if the commission  
and profit share it got hadnt been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One 
should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest  if he paid off the credit card at some  point.
Capital One should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN46767953my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before date.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4676795