K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Capital One (Europe)  Plc acted irresponsibly when it allowed him 
to take out a credit card because  it should  have realised it was unaffordable.
background
Mr K opened  a credit card account with Capital One in February 2015 with a credit limit of 
£1500. He already had another Capital One credit card account with a credit limit of £200.
In August  2018  Mr K complained to Capital One that it shouldnt have given him the second 
credit card because it was unaffordable. Capital  One didnt uphold  his complaint. It said 
there were no indications from his application that there were concerns about whether the 
second card was affordable.
Mr K wasnt  happy with Capital Ones response  to his complaint and referred it to this 
service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Capital One 
had assessed  Mr Ks ability to repay and approved his application on the basis  it was 
affordable for him at the time.
Mr K didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has referred to financial difficulties hes encountered since he took out the second  card 
with Capital One in 2015. But Im only concerned, for the purposes of this decision, with 
Mr Ks financial position  as it was in February 2015 and whether there was anything  that 
should have alerted Capital One to the possibility he couldnt  afford  to take out another credit 
card.
Mr K stated  on his application  that he was employed. He had a problem with his credit  
history because a default had been  applied by another lender in June 2010. However, he 
had several other financial  products in existence that were up to date and were being 
operated by him within their limits. Mr Ks credit history would have shown hed taken out 
some short term loans,  but these had all been  repaid at the time he applied to Capital One 
for the second  card.
Although Mr Ks credit history in 2015  wasnt perfect, Im not persuaded that there was 
enough adverse  information to indicate he couldnt  afford to take out another  card.  The 
default had been applied  almost five years before the application  for the second  card and 
Mr K appeared to have been  managing his finances  satisfactorily since  then. Hed always 
made the payments on his first Capital One credit  card on time. Hed exceeded his credit 
limit in May 2013  but hed stayed within the limit since September 2013.
Ref: DRN42142902In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded I could reasonably decide Capital One shouldnt 
have given Mr K a second credit card in February 2015 on the basis  that it should have 
realised he couldnt  afford  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Capital  One (Europe) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4214290