K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Thompson  Financial  Consulting Ltd (TFC)  advised him to transfer his 
pensions, one of which was an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Self-Invested  
Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) so he could invest in an overseas property investment. Mr T 
says that both the advice to transfer  and then to invest in overseas property was unsuitable 
for him.
background
In 2009 Mr T transferred  his OPS to a SIPP so that he could subsequently invest  in an 
unregulated overseas property investment  Harlequin. Harlequin is an Unregulated 
Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS).
Mr T says that he attended business networking  meetings  where he was introduced to the 
Harlequin investment.  He says the marketing  agents for Harlequin at the meeting  could  not 
give regulated  advice and so there were regulated financial advisers (IFAs)  present who 
could provide that. Mr T says that as he was made aware of the ability to use his pension to 
invest he spoke to TFC at the meeting.   
Mr T says that an adviser of TFC was present a several meetings and this is where  initial 
contact was made. Mr T says that a service  and payment agreement  was issued by TFC 
explaining that he had chosen to receive  advice  from TFC and would offer that advice after it 
had assessed  his needs.
TFC says it administered the transfer of the pensions on an execution-only basis and Mr T 
confirmed in a letter that he understood this. However  Mr T says that he has not had access 
to such document  and TFC has not supplied signed  copies.  
Mr T says that he never had a financial adviser before dealing with TFC and had no idea 
what its responsibilities were or how it should  act. He says he was led to believe that the 
IFAs had invested  themselves  and the investment was safe as it was in property. He was 
not told this was a high risk unregulated investment  which was unsuitable for him. 
TFC says that:
Its adviser did attend the networking  meetings but did not promote Harlequin  and 
was not introduced to Mr T as a potential client. 
Mr T came to its office on 19 November 2009. He gave verbal and explicit 
instructions as to what he wanted to do with his pensions and what  investments he 
wanted. Mr T confirmed that he did not need advice. 
On 23 December 2009 the TFC adviser issued a letter to Mr T outlining the 
execution-only confirmation  he would  need to supply as he had stated he did not 
need advice. 
Mr T sent it a letter which it received on 19 January 2010 which confirmed  the 
investment he wanted to make and what SIPP to use.
Ref: DRN46672822On 20 January 2010 it sent a letter to Mr T confirming  the execution only  basis of the 
transaction, asking  if he needed  advice and strongly recommending  that he obtain 
such advice. 
On 26 January 2010 Mr T attended  the TFC office and brought the application  forms. 
Another execution  only confirmation  letter was discussed at that meeting and that full 
advice had been declined. It said it had a telephone  conversation on 27 January 
2010 to confirm Mr T understood the letter and wished to proceed. 
It said it never promoted the Harlequin  investment to Mr T and he approached it 
direct. He declined  advice and proceeded on an execution-only basis.  It strongly  
recommended he seek  advice  elsewhere.
It did charge a fee but this was only for setting  up the SIPP.
It told Mr T the investment  was high risk and that he would lose the benefits of his 
occupational scheme.  
Mr T knew what he was doing.  
An adjudicator at this service  considered  the complaint. She thought it should be upheld. 
She thought  it was unlikely that Mr T, with his knowledge and background, would have 
knowledge of the SIPP provider chosen  and thought this had likely  been put forward  by TFC. 
On this basis the transaction was not execution-only and should  have been an advised  sale. 
However none of TFCs advisers  had the qualifications to advise on OPS transfers. She 
noted that Mr T had said he did not receive  the letters of 20 and 26 January 2010. 
TFC did not agree. It said it can prove the letters of 20 and 26 January 2010  were sent to Mr 
T. So he was aware of the basis on which he was proceeding.  
It said these letters were  not sent to Mr Ts representative earlier as it did not request  any 
documentation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was the transaction executiononly?
An execution-only transaction is defined as:
a transaction executed  by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where 
the firm does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction  and in 
relation to which the rules on assessment of appropriateness (COBS 10) do not apply.
So it would apply  where a client has approached a firm instructing it to carry out a specific 
transaction of their choosing. 
Mr T was promoted the Harlequin investment at a business networking meeting and was 
given information  to the effect that he could use his pension to invest. It does not appear that 
TFC was involved in this promotion and I have not assumed it was involved. Although Mr Ts 
Ref: DRN46672823and TFCs version of events differs somewhat as to when and where  he first met with an 
adviser from TFC,  what is not disputed is that Mr T discussed with TFC the matter of 
transferring his pensions so he could  invest in Harlequin. And also it is not disputed that TFC 
carried out the administration so that Mr T could transfer his pensions to a SIPP. 
However TFC says that it informed Mr T several  times that it was carrying out the transaction 
on an execution-only basis and was not providing him with advice on the suitability of the 
transfer or investment. It also advised him to obtain  such advice. Mr T has disputed that he 
received two of the principle letters which set this out. 
However, even assuming  that Mr T did receive those letters I do not believe this transaction  
can be correctly deemed execution-only. 
In order to come to the conclusion that this was an execution-only transaction  I would have 
to accept as more likely that Mr T decided  without any input at all from TFC that he should  
use his pension benefits, the majority of which derived  from an OPS, to invest in Harlequin. 
And then decided that the way to do this was to start a SIPP and transfer his benefits to it. 
Furthermore that he then decided on his own which SIPP provider to use. I do not believe 
that is likely.
The evidence is that Mr T was not a financially sophisticated individual:
He was a self-employed journalist earning  £20,000 to £25,000 a year.
He was separated  with no dependants.
He had no savings  or investments and had never had any investments prior to the
transaction.
He owned  his house valued at £205,000 with an interest only mortgage of £148,000.
He had no other pension provision other than the Lloyds and Skandia arrangements.
He had not used or retained  an independent  financial  adviser  before.
He considered that he had a low/medium risk profile.
This is not indicative of an individual that would or could enter into complex transactions of 
this nature on their own initiative or without some  advice. I do not believe it is tenable  that Mr 
T decided on his own to carry out the series of relatively complex transactions  so as to invest 
in Harlequin.   
So I do not believe it was correct for TFC to deem  the transaction execution-only and it is 
more likely that it did give (as Mr T says) Mr T guidance as to how to carry out the 
transaction that would  amount to advice. I then believe that TFC should have advised 
against this transaction because it was unsuitable  for Mr T. Or, as it says it could not give 
advice on such pension  transfers, declined to carry out the transfer. I will discuss this in 
more detail later in this decision.
did TFC act in Mr Ts best interests? 
I also do not believe that TFC acted in Mr Ts best interests and I will explain why.
Ref: DRN46672824In my view TFC should have taken into account Mr Ts circumstances and, as I will discuss, 
advised him against the transfer and investment. For completeness, TFC was clearly aware 
of the UCIS investment  that the transfer  to the SIPP was to facilitate. It should therefore 
have taken into account that the SIPP and the investment were  part of the same  transaction.
 
TFC knew that Mr T was transferring his accumulated OPS pension (which  had guarantees 
as to the level of income it would supply)  to a SIPP so that he could  invest  the majority of the 
value in a high risk UCIS. TFC had no reason to believe he had any other pension provision. 
Even without  taking into account the investment to be made, TFC would have known that 
transferring benefits  from his OPS providing  guaranteed benefits and income to a SIPP 
where there  were no such guarantees,  was unlikely to be suitable. And furthermore it was 
then aware that most of the money  was to be invested in a high risk UCIS where there was 
the potential for Mr T to lose his entire investment.  
UCIS promotions are restricted  by S238 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
They should  not be marketed to the general  public  and are generally  only suitable for 
sophisticated or professional investors  who can appreciate and understand the risks they 
present. They  are not regulated and do not benefit  from the protection afforded  by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
 
The regulator has commented that, UCIS  are generally regarded as being characterised by 
a high degree of volatility,  illiquidity or both  and therefore are usually regarded  as 
speculative investments.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I am required to take 
into account relevant:  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards  and 
codes of practice. I am also required to take into account, where  appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
Bearing in mind what TFC knew, it cannot fairly then carry out the administration  so that the 
pension transfer  and UCIS investment  can go ahead, it being clear  that this was wholly 
unsuitable for Mr T, and then claim that the transaction is execution-only so as to limit its 
liability. COBS 2, FCA (the FSA) Handbook  requires that: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.     
I also consider that the FCAs Principles 2 and 6 are of particular relevance to my decision 
about what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles 2 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN46672825The Principles have  a wide application, and I need to have  regard to them  when deciding  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TFC should have either declined to carry out the transection or provided  further  guidance or 
advice on the overall  arrangement of transfer,  SIPP and investment. I do not believe it acted 
with due care or in Mr Ts interests  in accordance  with COBS 2 or Principles  2 and 6. 
suitability of the transaction  for Mr T.
The Harlequin investment was an off plan unregulated speculative  overseas property 
investment. It was high risk and the investor  faced the real possibility of losing all their 
money. Because it was unregulated Mr T did not benefit from the protection  afforded by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. His circumstances do not indicate  that he was 
prepared to lose all his money or that he was suited  to the risks this investment  presented.  
Generally speaking, unregulated investments such as Harlequin would only be suitable for 
professional or experienced investors.  
Mr T had no experience of high risk, unregulated investments and his circumstances (as 
discussed earlier)  would not indicate  that he was suitable for such  investments. 
It does not seem to be disputed that Mr T approached  TFC with the Harlequin property 
investment in mind. But that was likely a result of a previous promotion of that investment  to 
him by the Harlequin agent or promoter   Mr T had not arrived  at this decision on his own.  
Mr Ts investment experience was limited and does not suggest  that he was an experienced 
investor who could  appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would not be reliant on 
TFC to give him suitable advice or consider his best interests. 
The value of Mr Ts pension funds was relatively  modest. And the majority of that money 
was placed in Harlequin. It was clear in any event  that placing  such a proportion  of the value 
of the pension into one particular asset  was unsuitable  because  of the lack of any 
diversification. And here the money was invested  in one overseas unregulated high risk 
asset. 
So the transfer to the SIPP and subsequent investment was unsuitable for Mr T. 
did TFC cause Mr Ts loss
If TFC had advised Mr T that he should  not transfer or invest  or declined to carry out the 
transfer, I think it more likely  that he would have taken account of that and it would have 
been persuasive, coming from a professional regulated financial adviser. I think  it would lead 
to him questioning  the appropriateness of investing.  I do not think it likely in that situation  
that Mr T would have gone elsewhere  to transfer  and invest.
It follows that he would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, his pension  to 
a SIPP.  So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place but for TFCs 
actions. Consequently any loss Mr T has suffered through  transferring to the SIPP  and 
investing in the UCIS  has been  caused  by TFC.    
fair compensation
Ref: DRN46672826In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
As discussed, I think otherwise Mr T would have  kept his existing pensions.  But its unlikely 
to be possible for TFC to reinstate Mr T into his previous pension schemes. 
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award. While I 
understand Harlequin Property will allow TFC to take over the investment from Mr T, the 
involvement of third parties   the SIPP  provider  and Harlequin Property  means much of 
this is beyond this service or TFCs  control. 
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and 
unlikely that the contract  and any future payments would be enforceable  but I cant be 
certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mr T back in the position he would have been in if suitable 
advice had been given, I think its fair that Mr T is compensated now. I dont think  we should 
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out 
below is a fair way of achieving this. 
As I understand it one of the pensions that was transferred was an occupational scheme  and 
one was a money  purchase personal pension.  I have set out fair redress  on this basis.
 In summary,  TFC should:
A) With respect to the final salary  OPS pension, undertake a redress  calculation in 
line with the regulators  pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017  (I have  set out this out in more detail below).
B)With respect to the money purchase  pension:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ts previous pension plan, as at the date 
of my final decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of that value  of Mr Ts 
SIPP represented by the money purchase  plan,  including any outstanding 
charges. 
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ts SIPP  so that the transfer value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
In addition, TFC should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr T to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr T £300 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Ref: DRN46672827I have set out each  point  in respect of B (the money purchase pension) in further detail 
below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ts previous pension plan if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of this decision.
TFC should ask Mr T's former pension provider to calculate the notional transfer value that 
would have applied  as at the date of this decision had he not transferred  her pension but 
instead remained invested. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
TFC should assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
2Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of the decision of that value of Mr Ts SIPP  
represented by the money  purchase pension,  including any outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
3Pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, TFC should pay it as a cash  sum 
to Mr T. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
4Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had TFC given suitable advice I dont think there  would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr T 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, TFC should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr T back in the position he would have been in. But the ownership of 
the Harlequin Property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely  that will change at 
some point, but I dont  know  when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.  
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that TFC pays  Mr H an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees), or 
undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, TFC may ask Mr T to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin  Property  
Ref: DRN46672828investment in that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any 
party as a result of the investment. That undertaking should  allow  for the effect of any tax 
and charges on the amount he may receive.  TFC will need to meet  any costs in drawing  up 
this undertaking.  If it asks Mr T to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded by this decision may be dependent upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, TFC wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any 
future payments under the Harlequin Property  investment, it must agree to pay any further 
future SIPP fees. If TFC fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr T should then have the option of 
trying to cancel the Harlequin Property  contract to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, TFC is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr T of any claim Mr T 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin Property 
investment. If TFC chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected  before 
payment of compensation is made. TFC must  first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr T 
for his consideration and agreement. 
5Pay Mr T £300 for the trouble  and upset caused.
I believe this matter  would have caused significant inconvenience and upset for Mr T and he 
should receive a payment for this. 
further guidance  as to calculation A: 
TFC must undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of this final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision. 
TFC may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension  plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN46672829determination and money award : I require TFC to pay Mr T compensation as set out 
above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr T 
within 90 days of the date TFC receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.  
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes TFC to pay Mr T this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that TFC pays Mr T the balance. I further recommend interest 
to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time,  in excess of 
90 days, that it takes TFC to pay Mr T from the date it receives notification of his acceptance 
of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr T accepts my determination, the money  award is binding on TFC. My recommendation 
is not binding  on TFC.  
Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr T may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order that Thompson  Financial Consulting  Ltd calculate and pay 
compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4667282