K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (the bank)  mishandled his chargeback 
request regarding a defective car he bought with his debit card, leaving him out-of-pocket. 
background
Mr C is a sole trader and bought a second-hand car for £2,775 for business purposes  using 
his Barclays debit card. There was also a six-month warranty. He says the car soon proved 
to be defective  in major respects and the seller (another business) failed to put things right 
when he asked them to. Having spent a lot on trying to repair  the car, Mr C says it proved 
unviable and he got just £200 scrap value for it. 
Mr C made  a chargeback  request to the bank, which took the request on and contacted  the 
seller, at the same time re-crediting Mr Cs account.  The seller  replied  to the bank  asking for 
more details of the sale.  The bank then asked Mr C to provide it with more details. Mr C did 
so but the bank took no further  action  indeed, wrongly thinking Mr C hadnt replied to its 
request for more  information, the bank closed the case and re-debited Mr Cs account, 
causing him to go into an unauthorised overdraft with associated interest and charges. When 
Mr C chased, it was too late for the chargeback request to be taken any further.
The bank compensated Mr C for its failure to handle  the chargeback correctly. It paid Mr C 
£200 for the trouble and upset hed experienced and offered to refund charges, but didnt 
pay him anything more for the failed chargeback, saying the chargeback  process wasnt 
guaranteed to have succeeded.  Mr C didnt think the bank had compensated him enough. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint. She concluded the bank hadnt done  what  it ought 
to have done in terms of handling and progressing Mr Cs chargeback request, and that the 
bank had given  an invalid  reason (the car was sold as seen) for saying the request wouldnt 
have succeeded.  She recommended the bank should pay Mr C £2,775 plus interest and also 
refund charges and interest  on Mr Cs business account.
The bank didnt  accept  the adjudicators conclusions. It said the information for a successful 
chargeback hadnt  been  provided by Mr C. There was no evidence of an attempt to return 
the goods to the seller or of steps  taken to try and resolve the issues. There was no 
evidence of the defects. The bill of sale contained contradictory information about  a 
warranty. And a clause in the bill of sale contained  an acknowledgement by Mr C that the car 
was in a useable condition. The bank also defended its position saying it had properly 
followed the information request process when  obtaining  information to provide to the seller.
Aware of the banks response, Mr C provided or re-provided, among other things, evidence 
of his email contact with the seller, and with the company  that was supposed  to arrange the 
repair of the car under  the warranty. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the bank, but I too 
have concluded  Mr Cs complaint succeeds.
The question Ive asked  is whether  Mr Cs chargeback request would have  been  likely to 
succeed if the bank had handled the request with reasonable  care.  I think  the answer  is yes. 
Ref: DRN42058012I think Mr C has given a reliable and truthful  account  of what happened.  In view of his 
account and the totality  of the evidence that Ive seen, my conclusions and comments are:
Mr C didnt act as a consumer when buying  the car. So the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015 didnt apply. (I mention this as Mr C thinks it did apply.) But under the Sale of 
Goods Act, a business selling  to another business,  as here, still promises the goods 
are of satisfactory quality  and fit for purpose.
The bill of sale contains a section called purchasers certificate of examination. It 
refers to it being a contractual term that the buyer should examine the vehicle to 
satisfy themselves as to its quality. But this doesnt apply in Mr Cs case as it says 
for use only in consumer  sales.
Acknowledging as the buyer  that one has had an opportunity of a thorough  
examination of the vehicle before purchase isnt tantamount  to accepting  that the 
vehicle is useable  (presumably the bank means  of satisfactory quality  and fit for 
purpose). It certainly doesnt displace  the contractual  promise that the vehicle is of 
satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. In any event, the defects  Mr C has described 
wouldnt in my view have  been  apparent on physical  examination.  
My own reading of the bill of sale is that the handwritten reference to there being a 
six-month warranty overrides the standard typewritten wording that theres no 
warranty (beyond that implied by law).  In any event, I see no reason why the 
warranty question would make  it less likely a chargeback would succeed. 
The information that the bank  says was lacking from Mr C, to the extent  it wasnt 
already contained in the information  he provided to the bank, could in my view easily 
have been provided  by Mr C if the bank had asked him for it in order to progress his 
chargeback request.  Mr C was entitled to expect  the bank, as the expert, to tell him 
what information he needed to provide in order to progress his request. 
In summary,  I see no reason, both as regards the information Mr C could have provided if 
requested and as regards  the inherent  facts of the situation including the legalities of the car 
sale, why a chargeback  wouldnt probably have succeeded in this case  if the bank had 
handled the request with reasonable care. 
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
pay Mr C £2,775  plus simple interest  of 8% per year from 120 days  after 24 
September 2018 until the date of payment;  and
repay the charges and any interest  on Mr Cs business account that wouldnt have 
arisen if the bank  hadnt re-debited the account on 17 January 2019. 
If Mr Cs business account has now been  closed, the charges and any interest  should  be 
paid to him direct. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4205801