K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card. Ms J says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds is unable to tell us when the PPI was sold but its assumed the PPI was sold at the 
same time the card was taken out in 1987. Ms J also thinks  the PPI was sold in 1987,  so Ive 
considered the PPI to have been sold in 1987  in my decision.
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  neither party has been able to provide 
any documents from the time of sale.  So Ive had to consider what both parties have said in 
order to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  on what I think  is more likely to 
have happened.
Ms J says she wasnt aware the PPI was optional and if she had been made aware she 
wouldnt have taken  it out. Ive considered what Ms J has said but Ive also considered that 
the PPI was taken  out a long time ago, around  32 years ago, so its difficult to rely on what  
she says alone  to conclude something untoward  happened. 
Lloyds says the PPI wouldve been  presented  as an optional  product and it wouldve only 
been added  to Ms Js account with her consent. While Ms Js credit card application  form is 
no longer available to support what Lloyds has said, I also havent  seen any evidence to 
support what Ms J has said. And without any evidence to show Ms J wasnt given a choice 
about the PPI or didnt consent  to it, I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold  the complaint on this 
point. So I think its more  likely than not that Lloyds  wouldve presented  the PPI as optional 
and Ms J chose to take it out.
As Lloyds  advised  Ms J to take out the policy it had to make  sure it was suitable for her  
and from what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and, she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.
Ms J said she had some sick pay at the time so she didnt  need the policy. The PPI policy, 
however, couldve  paid out up to 10% of Ms Js outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 12 
months. And this wouldve  been in addition to, and for longer than, her sick pay entitlement 
wouldve lasted her. So these funds couldve been used for other expenses. Ms J says she 
also had life cover at the time but the PPI wouldve  covered  Ms J for life cover as well as 
accident, sickness and unemployment, so I still think the PPI was suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
Ref: DRN40202072looks like it was affordable. And for all the reasons I think the policy  was suitable for her, I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4020207