K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that NewDay Ltd didnt do more  to help when he got into financial 
difficulties.
background
Mr G says he took out a store card with NewDay many years  ago and got into financial 
difficulty around 2008 due to ill-health. He could only afford to make the minimum monthly 
repayment and thinks NewDay shouldve done more to help him.  
Our investigation thought the limited  evidence suggested NewDay  had tried to help Mr G 
when he was having difficulties. So she didnt recommend his complaint should  be upheld.  
But Mr G disagreed  he said hed been  struggling  to meet  the minimum monthly payment 
for years before the account was defaulted  and NewDay should refund the interest hes 
been charged on the debt.
Mr G didnt accept this so the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
As the investigator  explained, NewDay has limited records relating to his account, mainly 
because it was defaulted in 2014 and the debt sold on to another  lender. That doesnt 
surprise me and I wouldnt expect a lender to retain detailed records  indefinitely.
Lenders are required to treat consumers positively and sympathetically when theyre in 
financial difficulty. But the rules and best practice  in force when Mr G was having problems 
didnt require NewDay to automatically suspend charges  and interest. Or take other  action 
simply because he was only able to make the minimum monthly repayments or may have 
missed or been late with a few payments over the years. 
It seems  when  Mr G did get in touch to discuss his escalating problems in 2014  a repayment 
plan was agreed. Unfortunately,  he wasnt able to stick to the plan so the account was 
defaulted. I dont  think that was an unfair course of action given that the relationship  between  
Mr G and NewDay seems  to have broken down at that point. In my experience  interest and 
charges tend to be suspended completely once an account is defaulted and I also think  its 
possible that wouldve  been done  as part of the repayment plan too.
Overall, given the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly  conclude that NewDay acted 
unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ref: DRN44201172Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4420117