K821x#15complaint
Mrs O has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc recorded  a Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance 
System (CIFAS)  marker  against her name. CIFAS  is one of the UKs fraud prevention  
agencies.
what happened
Following an account review in June 2018,  Lloyds gave Mrs O notice they were going to 
close her account.
In July 2018, Mrs O received a payment for £3,043.
In August  2018,  Mrs Os account was closed. Then Lloyds received  notification  that the 
£3,043 payment she received may be fraudulent. So in September 2018, they registered a 
CIFAS marker  against  her.
Following this, Mrs Os other accounts were  closed by her other  banks, and she wasnt  able 
to open a new one. She had to ask her partner to pay her direct debits for her.
Further, Mrs O had been using her personal Lloyds  account for business purposes,  and was 
unable to open a new business account,  so her limited company  had to stop trading. She 
says a family  member  loaned money  for her company, which  has now been lost.
Mrs O did a subject access request with CIFAS, and in March 2019 she complained about 
Lloyds. She gave them evidence that she was entitled to receive  the £3,043 payment.
In April 2019, Lloyds  agreed this evidence  was sufficient. They  removed the CIFAS marker, 
apologised, and offered  Mrs O £250 compensation.
Mrs O didnt accept Lloyds offer and came to our service. Our investigator looked  into things 
independently. She said Lloyds had already  decided  to close  Mrs Os account before this 
issue with the £3,043  happened, so that wasnt linked. And she explained  that Mrs O 
couldnt claim personal compensation for her limited companys losses. But she did think  the 
CIFAS marker  appeared to have caused at least three of Mrs Os other accounts to be 
closed. She said Lloyds shouldve given Mrs O the chance to explain herself before adding  
the marker,  which wouldve avoided the trouble that followed. She thought Lloyds should pay 
Mrs O £350 compensation instead of £250.
Both sides disagreed  with our investigator. In short, Lloyds felt the £250 theyd already 
offered was fairer,  and pointed out that Mrs O had been using this personal account to run 
her business, which  was against the terms and conditions.
On the other hand, Mrs O felt that £350 didnt reflect what  shed gone through  especially in 
regards to her business losses,  as she had been  planning to expand the business.
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN48234402Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Both sides have now accepted  that the payment  in dispute was not received fraudulently,  
and so that Lloyds should not have added  the CIFAS marker.
Like our investigator,  I think Lloyds  should have asked Mrs O for her side of the story  before 
adding the marker.  That would have  avoided most,  if not all, of what followed.
I understand that Mrs Os business suffered losses here, and that it stopped trading. So 
I completely understand why Mrs O would like Lloyds to pay compensation for that. But while 
Mrs O was the director and sole employee of the company, the nature of a limited company 
is that it is a completely separate  entity  to its director.
That means that, on the one hand,  Mrs O cannot be held personally responsible  for the 
limited companys debts.  But it also means that Mrs O cannot  claim personal compensation 
for the limited companys  losses. And the limited  company was not Lloyds customer  here  
Mrs O was. This was a personal account  in Mrs Os name, not the companys name.  So 
while Mrs O does have my sympathy,  I am not able to award  her any compensation for the 
losses that the separate limited company may have suffered.
What I can consider, however, is the personal trouble and upset that Mrs O suffered. I can 
see that at least three of Mrs Os other accounts  were closed, and because of that it doesnt  
look like she had a current account for several months. Mrs O explained her partner  had to 
handle things like direct debits for her, which wouldve been a real source of stress.
When it comes  to the amount of compensation Id award, its worth  bearing in mind  that 
were not here to punish banks or issue very large fines. Instead, we often tell banks  to pay 
compensation to their customer, to recognise that they got something wrong, and the impact 
that it had.
We have guidelines about the levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. I agree with our investigator that £350 is a fair total amount of compensation to 
put things right here.
Lloyds feel this is too much, but I disagree. I think £350 is more appropriate than £250, as it 
better reflects that Mrs O was inconvenienced  over a period of months.  Lloyds pointed  out 
that Mrs O broke her accounts terms and conditions, but as our investigator  already 
explained, thats not relevant here. This complaint  is about  the CIFAS marker,  not about  the 
way Mrs O managed her account or the way Lloyds closed it.
Ref: DRN48234403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I direct Lloyds  Bank  Plc to pay Mrs O £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4823440