K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs unhappy with the service she received from BUPA Insurance  Limited  when she 
made a claim.
background
Mrs B has private medical insurance with BUPA. In July 2018 she made a claim as she was 
experiencing musculoskeletal problems, including neck, back and knee pain. Mrs B said that 
she was misinformed throughout the claim and was subjected to lengthy  delays,  which in 
turn, affected her health  and caused  her to miss work. Mrs Bs self-employed  and said she 
was unable to work  due to delays in receiving  treatment  and was therefore out of pocket. 
BUPA accepted  the service she received was poor and that shed  been  given incorrect  
information about the claims process and the treatment she was entitled  to under her policy.  
To say sorry, BUPA offered her £150 compensation for the trouble and upset  it caused.  
Our investigator didnt  think this was enough.  Overall, she felt BUPA  should increase the 
compensation to £200 because it also supplied her with incorrect contact details for potential  
specialists. She said the delays  caused by BUPA were unnecessary and that because  it 
didnt respond  to Mrs Bs claim  in good time, or with the correct  information, she had little 
choice but to source treatment at her own expense. Our investigator said BUPA should 
reimburse these costs upon receipt of the medical practitioners  invoice as the policy  would 
have afforded  cover.
Both Mrs B and BUPA disagreed with her findings.  Mrs B said shed rather receive a refund 
of her premiums for the time she was effectively unable to use her policy  in the way she 
expected. She also said that BUPAs actions cost her money as she was unable to work at 
times owing to her symptoms. 
BUPA said the compensation already on offer is fair in the circumstances. It also said that 
Mrs B would have been eligible to receive treatment through one of its recognised  medical 
practitioners for physiotherapy and so it should not have  to pay for treatment  outside  of its 
approved network.   
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im persuaded by our 
investigators opinion  and uphold Mrs Bs complaint. The service  she received was poor and 
BUPAs actions caused her unnecessary trouble and upset. However, I think the redress  
already set out by our investigator fairly  compensates Mrs B for this and so I wont be asking  
BUPA to do anything more in this respect.  Ill explain why.
BUPA and Mrs B are in agreement with the errors made here. However, both are at odds 
with the overall  impact  and a fair amount of compensation to put things right. Initially,  BUPA 
offered £150 compensation  for the following  mistakes;
Not giving Mrs B a clear explanation of the claims process. Her claim was brought 
within the first policy year and so additional checks needed  to be completed and 
Ref: DRN43193382Mrs B had to gather  additional medical  information for this to happen. Because this 
wasnt explained to her it caused  unnecessary delays;
It gave incorrect information  when Mrs B asked  whether she was entitled to any 
cover for childbirth. Mrs B said she was concerned about  starting  a family because 
of a very sad set of circumstances experienced by one of her friends. And so she 
wanted to put her mind at rest to see whether her policy  would offer some protection 
in the circumstances. BUPA told her the policy didnt offer cover which wasnt the 
case as BUPA subsequently  explained  cover  could be available if a natural birth 
were to out the mothers life in danger. I should also note Mrs B is likely  to be high-
risk owing to her other  health  problems. 
It told her shed be covered for complimentary  treatments when there was no cover
She was given an incorrect email address to send her GPs referral  letter.
I think BUPAs  remedy to these errors  was fair. However, after these  issues, Mrs B 
continued to receive  a poor level of service.  And so, I agree that more compensation should  
be paid. I think Mrs B was entitled  to expect a better level of service than she received. She 
needed an MRI scan and further tests as she was suffering with tension  in her neck  which  
caused her to experience migraines. Mrs B took responsibility for finding  a suitably qualified 
specialist when I think BUPA should have. 
In addition, she was given incorrect contact information to reach  these specialists. I 
understand BUPAs  argument that this was the information given to it by those specialists,  
but I dont think  its fair to say it bears no responsibility for giving out incorrect  information. I 
think it reasonable that Mrs B to expected BUPA to give her correct information. And given 
the poor level of service  shed received up until then,  this error eroded the little confidence 
she had left in BUPA. So, I accept this caused  her further trouble and upset which  is why I 
think, overall, the £200 compensation fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused. 
When Mrs B first made her claim,  she was hoping to be treated by a physiotherapist, or even 
try acupuncture to try and alleviate her symptoms. However, because  of the mis-information 
given at the beginning of her claim about the claims process, this caused unnecessary  
delays. Mrs B said her symptoms were  so severe  that she arranged to see a specialist at her 
own cost. She said this cost her around  £200  and so given what Ive explained  about  the 
unnecessary delays and poor service, I think it reasonable that BUPA  reimburse these costs, 
upon receipt of an invoice. I say that because  this was something shed have been entitled  
to under the provision of cover  for this policy. 
Mrs B has requested that BUPA  return her premiums, but I dont think  it would be fair in the 
circumstances. I say that because the policy would still cover Mrs B for treatment of her 
conditions and, as instructed  by our investigator, will cover her for the treatment she sourced 
herself. That means Mrs B will benefit from the policy and so its fair that she pays  for it.  
Mrs B made arguments about losing money  because she was unable to work, but Ive not 
seen any evidence of this and so make  no finding in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN43193383my final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons  Ive explained and BUPA Insurance Limited must 
now;
Pay Mrs B £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (making the total 
amount payable £200) and;
Reimburse Mrs B for the cost of seeing  a specialist upon receipt of the specialists 
invoice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4319338