K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment  protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy in May 2004.
They say they didnt realise  they had the policy and also didnt  need  it. 
background
Only Mr M had the MPPI  cover and the policy provided cover  for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Because  Mr and Mrs M disagree,  their 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding in this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us that they bought  the policy in a meeting. Although  Mr and Mrs M 
dont think so, Lloyds  has said it made  a recommendation that they should buy the cover.  
That means Lloyds  needed to make  sure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ms 
situation and that the information it gave them about  the cover  was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Ive then looked at the available paperwork from the sale.
Ive seen that when they applied for their mortgage, Mr and Mrs M filled out a separate  
application form for the policy. On the form, they showed that they wanted 100% coverage 
for their mortgage costs.  They then signed the form and also filled out a direct debit mandate  
so that the payments for the cover  could be taken from their bank. All of this makes me think 
that Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice about  buying the policy and chose to go ahead 
with the cover.
Ive also seen that their mortgage offer letter said they didnt have to buy any insurance from 
Lloyds. There was a requirement for them to take out buildings  insurance,  either  through  
Lloyds or elsewhere,  but theres nothing  to suggest that they had to take out MPPI. 
The MPPI seems to have  been right for Mr and Mrs M based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. I havent  seen anything  to suggest that Mr M wasnt eligible for 
the cover  or wouldve  been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. 
Mr M said that if he couldnt work hed receive  full sick pay from his employer  that would last 
for at least 6 months. He told us it would then taper  off to around 60% and stay at that level 
for 3 years. Mr and Mrs M also said that family members couldve helped  them  make  
repayments. The MPPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ms sick pay and for longer than his 
Ref: DRN41585172full sick pay would be available, up to a total of 12 months. It would pay out if he couldnt 
work due to accident or sickness, as well as if he were to lose his job. Having the cover in 
place also meant they wouldnt have had to rely on family members to help them  with 
repayments, whose  own circumstances  could easily change. So I think the policy wouldve 
been useful to them.
In taking out a mortgage, Mr and Mrs M were taking on a major financial commitment. If 
Mr M wasnt able to work the household  would  suffer a significant fall in income and it could 
well put Mr and Mrs M at risk of losing their home.  The MPPI would have covered their 
monthly payments,  plus an additional  sum calculated on the basis  of £3 for each £1,000 of 
their initial borrowing. So I think the policy wouldve  been a definite help to Mr and Mrs M at 
what could be a difficult time financially.
Ive seen that the policy would cover Mr and Mrs Ms monthly mortgage payments in full. Ive 
no way of knowing if Mr and Mrs M knew  about the cost of the policy when they bought it. I 
also dont know if they read the policy documentation that wouldve been sent to them after 
the amount they were borrowing had been finalised and the policy  had started. But from the 
paperwork I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve had difficulty meeting the monthly  premiums.  
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs M would still have decided  
to buy the policy if theyd been  better advised and informed.
Finally, Id like to address  Mr and Mrs Ms concern  that the MPPI was cancelled  by Lloyds to 
prevent Mr M from making a sickness claim in around May 2010. Having looked carefully at 
all the available  evidence  I can see that Lloyds cancelled the policy  in April 2010. It looks  as 
if this was after Mr and Mrs Ms direct debit instruction was stopped. So Im satisfied that 
theres no connection and, whilst this was of course unfortunate timing, I hope this reassures 
Mr and Mrs M.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Lloyds 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4158517