K821x#15Complaint
Mr A has complained that he was mis-sold a fixed sum loan by Wise Energy Solutions Ltd. 
The loan was provided under the Green Deal scheme to finance the installation  of solar 
panels on Mr As property. 
Background
I should firstly say that at the time the loan in question was sold,  Wise Energy Solutions Ltd 
was known as Green  Deal Energy Services (UK) Ltd. For the sake of convenience  however, 
I will just refer to this company as Wise Energy in this decision. 
Additionally, prior to setting out the events of this particular case, I will provide  some 
explanation of the Green Deal scheme and its particular workings. 
The Green Deal
Put simply, the Green Deal scheme  was a government  backed initiative intended to remove  
the upfront  cost to consumers of installing energy efficiency measures into their homes.  It did 
this by allowing  Green Deal Providers  (Provider) to enter finance agreements with 
consumers to pay for the measures, which were then repaid via the consumers  electricity  
bill. The finance agreement was part of what was known as the Green  Deal Plan (Plan).  
The Green Deal Provider Guidance issued by the Department of Energy  & Climate Change 
(now part of the Department  for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy)  set out the general 
structure of a Green Deal arrangement and the duties and responsibilities  of various  parties. 
Typically, this worked as follows:
If a consumer was interested in the Green  Deal arrangement, an accredited Green  
Deal Assessor (Assessor) would visit their home and assess  possible 
improvements the consumer could introduce to make  the home more energy 
efficient. This assessment should  have taken  place at least  24 hours after any initial 
introduction to the Green Deal scheme,  unless the consumer opted to waive  their 
right to this in writing.
The Assessor produced an Energy Performance  Certificate (EPC) which  showed 
the energy use of a typical household  of the relevant type. And a Green  Deal Advice 
Report (GDAR), which included  an Occupancy Assessment certificate  (OA). 
The OA formed part of the qualifying assessment.  And would have set out the actual 
use of energy by the customers household  at the time the assessment was carried 
out. It then detailed the potential  measures which  could  improve energy efficiency for 
the property and what savings these measures  would  likely lead to.
Once a GDAR was registered in a centralised register, it could be taken to any 
Provider, or several,  to obtain quotes  for a Plan. The Provider should have ensured 
that the quote covered  all payments that were  to be recovered from the consumer for 
supply and installation  of the improvements and the provision of credit.
Ref: DRN42750022It was the Provider who was ultimately  responsible for designing the specification of 
works and the implementation of the Plan.  This would  include  ensuring that the 
improvement measures were properly  integrated  into the overarching design  of the 
package of improvements agreed upon.
The Provider would arrange for a Green Deal Installer (Installer) to install the 
measures under the plan. The Provider had to provide the Installer with a clear  
design and specification for all works to be carried out, including how the various 
products should  be integrated into the overarching design for the package  of 
improvements.
Once the installation was complete, the Green  Deal payments were  collected by 
electricity suppliers  alongside the collection  of energy payments. In doing so, the 
supplier would be acting on behalf of the Provider.
The Plan was a contract  between the Provider  and the consumer. It was a contract  
for energy  efficiency  improvements to be made  to a property  and for finance  to pay 
for those improvements.
The Provider had to establish the Plan in line with requirements set out in the Energy 
Act 2011, the Green  Deal Framework (Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) 
Regulations 2012 (the Framework) and the Green Deal Code of Practice.
The golden rule
A significant key principle  of the Green Deal scheme  was that the amount of finance that 
could be provided  for the improvement measures was limited to the estimated financial 
benefit to the customer that was likely to be made by those measures. This limitation was 
partly constructed through a comparison of the estimated saving from having the benefits 
with the repayments made, in the first year of the agreement. 
This principle is known as the golden  rule and it forms part of the legislative provisions 
governing Plans. Regulation 30 of the Framework  stated: 
The first year instalments must  not exceed the estimated first year savings
As the Plan remained  with the property,  and so was not dependent  on the usage of energy  
by the specific  occupant  at the time of the assessment, the total amount of finance that could  
be provided was based  on the benefits that could be achieved for a typical  property  of the 
type the consumer had. 
Before entering into a Plan, the al Provider  had to estimate  the overall savings which  were  
likely to be made if the improvements were carried out. It was also the responsibility of the 
Provider to ensure that the golden rule was satisfied and that it was properly explained to 
the consumer.
Ref: DRN42750023The events in Mr As case
Mr A has said that in 2015, at time he was recovering from an operation and his only income  
was from benefits, he was cold-called by a representative of Wise Energy. Mr A says he 
was told that if he agreed to have solar panels fitted to his property, he would have cheaper 
energy bills and he would  also receive £250 per year in extra income  from these panels. 
Hes said he was told this would not cost him anything.
Wise Energy is a Provider, but has said that it sub-contracts the sales part of the process  to 
Southern Energy Solutions (Property  Services)  Limited (SES). SES had authorisation to 
broker credit  in relation  to Plans. Wise Energy has said SES was also an accredited 
Installer.
It seems  that SES established  whether Mr A might be interested  in having relevant 
measures installed in his property. And a customer information form was completed,  which 
included details of his property, energy supplier, and household income. Mr A signed the 
form agreeing to a credit  check. The form is headed  with Wise Energys logo and contact 
details, and it does  not make  any reference  to SES.
Wise Energy has said that an assessment was then carried out by a domestic energy 
assessor (DEA)  and that a GDAR was produced from this. No copy of this report is 
apparently available. So we cannot be sure what was recommended to Mr A. It is also not 
clear who the DEA worked  for. 
A copy of the EPC produced at the time is available through the online EPC register  though.  
This names  the DEA, but not any affiliation he had. It also shows  the assessment date, 
7 July 2015, as being  the date Mr A was introduced to the Green Deal scheme and signed 
the customer information form.
The EPC recommended a number of measures, including the introduction of 2.5 kWp solar 
panels, and estimated the typical savings for this as being just over £300  per year with an 
indicative cost of £5,000-8,000. The EPC stated:
There  is a limit to how much  Green  Deal Finance can be used, which  is determined  
by how much energy  the improvements are estimated to save for a typical  
household.
A week after the initial contact Mr A was apparently visited  again by an SES sales agent. He 
was provided with Pre-Contract  Information  and an Explanation Of Credit Agreement  
document. He also signed the Installation  Agreement and the Credit  Agreement. All of 
these documents  were  again on Wise Energy headed paper and refer only to Wise Energy 
rather than any of the other businesses involved.  Though signed by Mr A on 14 July, they 
had been apparently produced on 10 July 2015.
The Explanation of Credit  Agreement  set out that the Green Deal loan was different to a 
normal loan. It also said:
In the first year, the repayments  must not exceed  the estimated typical savings for 
that type of improvement. However,  this does not guarantee that the bills will not be 
any higher as your energy usage  may not be typical.
Ref: DRN42750024The Credit  Agreement  itself confirmed the improvement  measures as being photovoltaics 
(solar panels).  It also set out the amount  of money  being provided for the improvement 
measures as £4,350. And the interest and charges added to this as being  £4,834.13. The 
total amount repayable, over the approximate 23 year period of the loan, was therefore 
£9,184.13.
As the repayment  of the loan was to be made via Mr As energy bill, the actual frequency 
and amount of each  repayment wasnt stated on the agreement. However,  it did set out that 
the instalments  would be calculated using a daily rate of £1.11.  This would result in an 
annual repayment  of £405.15 (over  365 days). 
The credit agreement also stated  that:
The total estimated first year savings  on your energy bills are an assessment based 
on the Improvement(s) being made,  the typical energy usage  for the Property and the 
price of energy.  They do not in any way represent guaranteed savings.
Your total estimated  first year savings are: £408.00
Under the Green Deal the total estimated first year savings must be equal to, or 
greater than, your repayments  in the first year of this Credit  Agreement.  This is called 
the "Golden Rule".
Wise Energy say that they then arranged for SES to install the measures on Mr As property.  
The updated  EPC shows that 3.5 kWp solar panels  were installed. And following this, Mr A 
signed a form to confirm the installation works were completed.  This was signed nine days  
after Mr A had first been contacted and signed Wise Energy headed paperwork. 
It seems  that Mr A also entered an agreement  with ECH Property Solutions Limited (ECH).  
We do not have  a copy of the agreement between Mr A and ECH, but I have  seen a similar  
agreement entered  with another  customer.  And I consider it reasonable to consider Mr A 
entered his agreement on similar terms. Regardless, it is accepted  that the agreement he 
had with ECH resulted in the right to the FIT being assigned  from Mr A to ECH.
The director  of ECH was also the director of SES. And Wise Energy has said this director:
came up with the idea of installing solar panels  for customers who could not afford  
the upfront  costs  for the value of their Green  Deal loan only However, as 
compensation for doing this, [ECH] agreed with the customers that [it] would  take 
50% of the Feed in Tariffs.
Wise Energy has gone on to say that this enabled;
many customers  who would not otherwise have been able to afford to install solar 
panels, to have them installed so that they could make use of the savings to their 
energy bills as well as receive 50% of the Feed  In Tariffs.  It was a win/win  deal and 
over 100 customers took advantage of it.
I feel it is necessary here to clarify  what feed-in-tariffs (FIT)  are. The installation of solar  
panels means consumers would be producing their own electricity. The amount of electricity 
would be dependent on daylight,  weather,  and so on. At times this production  would not be 
as much electricity as the property was using, and electricity  would  still be taken from the 
consumers supplier. 
Ref: DRN42750025But at other  times, they would be producing more electricity than was used.  Customers  were 
able to export and sell this surplus electricity to their supplier. If the property did not have 
smart meters  to measure the actual  electricity exported, it was assumed that 50% of the 
generated electricity  is exported.
In Mr As case, having installed the solar panels,  he agreed with his electricity supplier that 
they would  pay the FIT, but that the payments would be made to ECH.  ECH would then 
forward to Mr A 50% of these payments. This arrangement  was confirmed by the supplier in 
July 2016. It should be noted  that there has been a further transfer of these FIT rights,  but 
the details of this are not overly relevant to Mr As complaint about the loan being mis-sold. 
In October  2016, Mr A contacted this service to raise a complaint  about the sale of the Plan. 
Wise Energy said that if the Plan was mis-sold, this was something SES would be 
responsible for as SES had its own authority. But that in any event Wise Energy didnt 
consider there to have been  a mis-sale.  
Wise Energy said that the documents were  clear that any savings were an estimated 
projection. And that Wise Energy had followed its procedure for ensuring Mr A was aware of 
the nature  of the loan.  
Our investigator disagreed. She felt that Wise Energy had included Mr As FIT payments 
when considering the savings that might  be achieved. And because Mr A was assigning  the 
right to part of the FIT, Wise Energy had over-estimated these savings. She also said that 
Wise Energy, as a Provider,  should  have had a full understanding of how the FIT worked.
Our investigator said that Wise  Energy had a responsibility to know  how Mr A was going to 
finance the full cost of the improvement measures and so should have known about the 
arrangement to transfer the rights to the FIT payments to ECH. And because this 
arrangement meant that the savings  Mr A would receive from the improvement measures 
wouldnt cover  the cost of the loan repayments  for the first year, the Plan was in breach of 
the golden rule and that Mr A was misled about  the agreement. 
The investigator also didnt think Mr A was fully informed about the fact he was entering  a 
loan agreement, and that he would not have  taken this out had he been aware.  
Overall, the investigator  felt that Wise Energy, as the Provider, hadnt met its responsibility  
for ensuring  the Plan met the relevant requirements and that Mr A was provided with clear  
information. As such, she recommended  Mr As complaint be upheld, and that Mr A should 
be put back in the position  he would have been  in had he not taken out the Plan,  as well as 
being awarded a sum in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Mr A agreed with these  findings, but Wise Energy  did not. It maintained that the relevant  
documents were  clear, that there were other reasons estimated savings might not be met, 
and that it was inappropriate to say that Wise Energy should  have  known about  the transfer 
of the FIT rights. Wise Energy has also said that it was not informed that the cost of the 
actual installation exceeded the loan.  It also maintained that the methodology for calculating  
the savings did not fully include  the FIT and that the Plan did not breach the golden rule. 
Ref: DRN42750026My findings
Relevant considerations
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what  I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  sets out a number of rules  and guidance  
that I consider applicable. These  include the FCAs high-level standards: the Principles  for 
Businesses, the relevant  systems and controls rules and the Conduct rules   Consumer 
Credit sourcebook (CONC). 
The Principles apply  to all authorised firms of which Wise Energy is one. Of particular 
relevance to this complaint are:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly
Principle 7
A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate  
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading
Principle 9
A firm must take reasonable care to ensure  the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In addition, the following CON) rules  are of particular relevance  to this complaint:
CONC 2.3.2R
A firm must explain the key features of a regulated  credit agreement to enable  the 
customer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate 
explanations).
CONC 4.2.5R
(1) Before making a regulated credit  agreement the firm must:
(a) provide the customer  with an adequate  explanation of the matters 
referred to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess  
whether the agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial 
situation;...
(2) The matters referred  to in (1)(a) are:
(a) the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
Ref: DRN42750027(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which  
would have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee;...
As regards  the Plan itself, as mentioned  earlier, the Green Deal guidance issued by the 
Department of Energy & Climate Change states that the Provider  must  ensure that the Plan 
(which includes the credit agreement)  is in line with requirements set out in:
(i) the Energy  Act 2011,
(ii) the Framework, and
(iii) the Green Deal Code of Practice.
Amongst other things the Energy Act 2011  sets out that the Provider must meet any 
requirement specified in the Framework  as to the relationship between the estimated total of 
the proposed  instalments and the estimate  they gave  on the basis specified  in the 
Framework  of the savings likely to be made  on the energy  bills for the property, if the 
improvements are carried out (section  4(7)). And this is set out in regulation 30 of the 
Framework as previously noted  (the golden rule).
The Code of Practice effectively incorporates the key provisions of the Act and the 
Framework and I consider the following in it are particularly  relevant here:
Annex B Part 1
18. Where  an offer of a Green Deal Plan is made  in respect  of a domestic property, 
the Green Deal Provider must discuss with the improver and bill payer, in light of the 
households actual  energy use estimated in the Green Deal Advice Report,  whether 
(a) instalments payable under the Green Deal Plan are likely to be fully offset 
by savings on energy  bills for the property resulting from installation of the 
improvements;
(b) the amount  of instalments to be paid under a Green Deal Plan should  be 
set at an amount  which is lower than the cap on instalments, to ensure that 
the Green Deal Plan is affordable to the bill payer and meets their needs and 
financial situation
23. A Green Deal Provider must ensure it uses realistic figures when discussing 
potential future energy  price changes with improvers  or bill payers. It must also make  
clear when doing so that projected prices  are only a prediction, and that the actual 
price changes over time may be different.
29. The Framework Regulations set out conditions restricting  the amount of the 
instalments that can be charged under a Green Deal Plan (see in particular 
regulations 28 and 30 and regulation 33). These  conditions must always  be complied 
with by Green Deal Providers,  and failure  to do so will mean that an arrangement 
does not qualify as a Green Deal Plan.
Ref: DRN42750028Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  deals with negotiations between Wise Energy, 
as creditor, and Mr A, as debtor, in relation to the making of the credit  agreement.  These 
negotiations shall be taken to begin  when Wise Energy  (or any party on its behalf) first 
communicated with Mr A (including any adverts) and include any representations made by 
Wise Energy to Mr A and any other dealings between them.
Is Wise Energy responsible?
Wise Energy has said that SES is an authorised  firm and was allowed to broker  the finance 
agreement Mr A entered. As such,  Wise Energy considers that any alleged mis-sale should  
be considered  against  SES rather than Wise Energy.
However, whilst  SES could potentially  be held responsible for anything it did wrong, 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 says that the negotiations by SES are also 
deemed to have been conducted in the capacity of agent of Wise Energy. As such,  Wise 
Energy is also responsible for any inappropriate action  of SES during  the sales  process.
It is also clear  that Wise Energy had an agreement with SES that SES would effectively sell 
Wise Energy Plans.  Although a consumer was able to take their GDAR to any Provider, 
there is no indication  that Mr A was told this. All of the paperwork SES seemingly gave Mr A 
referred only to Wise Energy, Mr A has said he understood the sales  agent to be working on 
behalf of Wise  Energy. 
Additionally, as well as the impact of the Consumer Credit Act, the rules and guidelines for 
the Green Deal make it clear that it was the Provider who was responsible for ensuring that 
the Plan met the necessary requirements  and that the consumer understood what was being 
entered. Wise Energy  may have sub-contracted parts of the process to SES.  But that 
doesnt mean all of the relevant responsibilities transferred to SES.
Ultimately, I consider that Mr As complaint is one that should be considered against Wise 
Energy.
Did the Plan meet the necessary requirements?
As has been note above, one of the key elements to the Green  Deal scheme is that the Plan 
met the golden rule. And it was the responsibility  of Wise Energy, as Provider, to ensure that 
this was the case for Mr As Plan. 
It is clear that, in this case, the full cost of the installed measures were not paid for by the 
Plan. And that a separate agreement had to be entered  in order  to finance the measures. 
Wise Energy has explained to us that SES came up; with the idea of installing  solar panels 
for customers who could not afford the upfront costs  for the value of their Green Deal loan 
only. And that this would involve the customer agreeing to pass on 50% of the FIT. Wise 
Energy has though also said that it was not aware  that Mr A was entering an agreement  with 
anyone to pass on these  FIT rights.
I accept that, even if Wise Energy was aware  that SES often used  such  an arrangement, it 
might not have known  Mr A specifically was entering one. However, as the Provider, it 
should have known the full package of measures that were to be installed (i.e. the number of 
solar panels)  and the cost of this, as well as the estimated savings. 
Ref: DRN42750029As Provider,  Wise Energy  was responsible  for ensuring that the whole package of 
instalments was taken  into account when producing the Plan. The Green  Deal Provider 
Guidance states:
The Green  Deal Provider has responsibility for designing the specification of works 
to be carried out for the property in question. In practice this means working with the 
customer to select products and ensuring  that they are properly integrated into the 
overarching design  of the package of improvements agreed upon. This is important 
in development  of the quote  stage because costing will depend  on, amongst other 
things, the price of the products and any requirements for integration. It is the Green 
Deal Providers responsibility to ensure that they take any necessary steps  to satisfy 
themselves and their customers that the specification of works is comprehensive, 
ensures the proper integration of measures and meets all the necessary 
requirements.
And:
The Green  Deal Provider should  ensure that the quote issued to the customer 
covers all payments that are to be recovered from the Improver  and bill payer for 
supply and installation  of the improvements and the provision of credit.
So, I think it reasonable that Wise  Energy should have known that not all of the cost was 
being funded by the Plan. And, on that basis, I think it is reasonable that Wise Energy should  
have made  sure it was acting in accordance with the FCA Principles when entering the Plan.
It was also key that the Plan met the golden rule. As above,  this required that the cost of the 
finance for the first year was not higher than any savings the customer would benefit from as 
a result of the measures.
The credit agreement that Wise Energy produced showed the estimated savings  Mr A would 
benefit from in the first year as being £408,  with an effective annual  repayment of £405.15 
for the finance.  So, if Mr A had benefitted from the full savings, he would have  been  paying 
less for the finance than he would be benefitting as a result of the measures, and the golden 
rule would have  been met. 
However, the £408 estimated savings  included the money Mr A would receive from the FIT. 
And as part of this was not going  to be received by Mr A, the golden rule would not have 
been met.
Wise Energy has said that the relevant savings calculations do not include the FIT. And so 
even if Mr A was not going to receive the FIT, Wise Energy  was entitled to rely on the 
calculation it received as the savings Mr A would  benefit from. However, I disagree. 
The methodology that is used in the calculations for the Green Deal scheme is based on the 
Standard Assessment Procedure (SAP). The methodology is published  on behalf of the 
government by the Building Research Establishment (BRE). There  have been  different 
versions of SAP but the one applicable in Mr As case  is SAP 2012. Appendix M of SAP 
2012 sets out part of the formula for calculating energy savings from solar panels.  
I note that Wise Energy has referred  to comments received from the BRE,  in 2018, that 
references in the SAP to the export tariff does not relate to FIT export tariff. However, I think  
Wise Energy has misunderstood what this means. 
Ref: DRN427500210BREs email to Wise Energy in 2018  says:
SAP has used the term export tariff  to attribute  an assumed  value to exported 
electricity This has nothing to do with the export tariff associated  with FITs.
This did not mean that the calculation for the estimated savings a customer  would benefit 
from did not include the FIT payments they would receive. Rather it means the SAP 
calculation was based on assumed price a customer would receive  for exporting electricity, 
rather than the actual price the customer would be paid by their particular supplier. As 
mentioned previously, the SAP made other  assumptions as well  such  as the amount of 
electricity used and exported. But such assumptions were determined  as necessary to 
provide a usable calculation. 
Regardless, what is clear to me is that the Green  Deal calculations  include the estimated 
benefits a customer  will achieve from both the reduction in energy they would take from their 
supplier and also from receiving the FIT. 
And, ultimately, as a Provider, I consider it reasonable that Wise Energy was aware that 
the benefits a customer would achieve from measures installed under a Plan 
included the benefit  of receiving  FIT payments, and 
the associated  golden rule also took this into account. 
As such,  Wise Energy  should also have been aware  that any assignment of FIT payments to 
a third party would lower the overall savings that the customer  would make as a result of the 
measures. 
So, if a customer needed to assign part of the FIT payments to a third party in order to be 
able to afford to have  the measures installed, the associated reduction in the overall  savings 
would need to be taken into account  when considering whether the Plan  including  the 
whole package of agreed improvements  met the golden rule. 
In Mr As case, Wise Energy should have been aware that the overall savings estimated to 
be achieved under the Plan were partly  based  on measures that were not being financed by 
the loan it was providing. And I think Wise Energy should have  made sure that this would not 
reduce the overall saving that would be achieved for Mr A. 
As the assignment  of part of the FIT rights did reduce this overall saving below the annual 
cost of the finance, I dont consider the Plan met the golden rule. I also consider Wise 
Energy should  have thought about the arrangement  in light of the Principles, and with this in 
mind I dont think this arrangement was in Mr As best interests. 
I also think that by indicating to Mr A that the measures being financed  through the Plan 
would result in an estimated overall saving, Wise Energy provided Mr A with misleading 
information. 
Had Mr A been made aware that the installation of the measures would come at a net cost to 
him, I dont  think he would have agreed to the Plan.  I dont think  he would not have agreed  to 
have the solar panels installed  or have entered the finance agreement with Wise Energy.  
Ref: DRN427500211Summary
As Provider,  Wise Energy  was responsible  for ensuring the Plan met the relevant 
requirements. Taking into account  the whole of the arrangement, I dont consider that the 
golden rule requirements of the Plan were  satisfied. Mr A would not have benefitted from an 
overall saving once he had assigned the FIT rights. And I consider Wise Energy should have 
taken this into account.
Additionally, as the lender  of this finance, Wise Energy was also responsible  for any 
representations made  by them or on their behalf to Mr A. And I consider that Mr A was 
provided with unclear  and misleading information and was not provided with an adequate 
explanation so that he could assess whether  the credit agreement  would meet  his particular  
needs and financial  situation.
Based on this, I dont  consider Mr A would have had the solar panels  installed, or entered  
the finance agreement with Wise Energy.  I also dont consider that Mr A would have  
experienced the distress and inconvenience  he has as a result of the existence  of this 
agreement. 
So, to put things right, Wise Energy should;
1.cancel its credit agreement and write off any outstanding loan balance
2.remove any record of the finance from Mr As credit file
3.refund  repayments  Mr A has made  towards the loan, together with interest 
4.make  arrangements to take responsibility  for any contractual obligations under the 
agreement that transferred  the FIT rights
5.remove the solar panels from Mr As property at no cost to him, and
6.pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the inconvenience he suffered  as a result  of its 
actions.
But Wise Energy can deduct from this compensation amount the FIT payments Mr A has 
received from the solar  panels since theyve been installed.
 This interest  should be calculated at 8% simple per annum, from the date of each loan 
repayment until the date of settlement. If HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Wise Energy to 
take off tax from this interest, Wise Energy must give Mr A a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Wise Energy Solutions Ltd should put things 
right in the manner  I have  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4275002