K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
over the phone in 2003. Mrs D says Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs D case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Ds credit card application  showed she had a choice about taking the PPI and she 
didnt take it at that time. Mrs D took the PPI later during  a phone  call  after her credit 
card application  had been approved. So I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs D didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs D got the information  she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information  that shows Mrs Ds credit  card was taken out in 2003  and 
ended in 2005. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
Ref: DRN40875312guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.  So 
Barclays doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs D paid for the PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4087531