K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  plc wont refund to him the money that he paid in 
relation to his static  caravan. His complaint is made against HSBC  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Mr L entered into a number of contracts  in June 2013 to buy and use a static  caravan. He 
paid £6,750 to the holiday  park using his HSBC  credit card. And he made  further payments 
by other  means   including  a debit card. He entered  into further  contracts in February  2015 
when he upgraded his caravan. The licence agreement that he entered  into in February 
2015 said that he was entitled  to use the unit until the end of November 2015. He renewed 
his licence each  year and in October  2017  paid £1,000 as a reservation fee for his 2018 
licence using his HSBC credit card. The balance of £2,295  was due at the end of January 
2018.
 
Mr L received a letter from the local council  in November 2017  which  said that the holiday 
park had been operating in breach of its planning  conditions and that the approved 
occupancy period for the holiday park was from mid-March until the end of October (and that 
the caravans could  only be used at weekends outside of that period).  
He complained to the holiday park and then claimed a refund of £25,000 and a refund of the 
site fees from HSBC under section 75. He says that hes paid £28,500 in respect of the 
caravan purchase  and other amounts on improving his site. HSBC  said that that it wasnt  
liable for a breach of contract  or misrepresentation under the June  2013  contracts  because  
those contracts ended when Mr L upgraded his caravan in February  2015.  And it said that it 
had provided credit  for the £1,000 reservation  fee in October 2017 but, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it offered him £1,000 in full and final settlement of his claim (and without  admission 
of any liability). Mr L didnt accept that offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that he was 
only able to look at HSBCs involvement and he didnt think that it was responsible for 
refunding the amount that Mr L had paid for the original caravan as he received the goods  
and services as described.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says,  in summary, 
that the contracts that he signed  in June 2013 were for five and a half years until the end of 
November 2018  so whatever caravan he had, the notice from the council would apply. And 
he says that had he not upgraded  his caravan, the notice wouldve applied to his original 
caravan. He says that he was mis-sold this deal and upgrading the caravan  doesnt affect 
that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ls complaint about HSBC, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday 
Ref: DRN47077822park and that HSBCs response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im 
not determining  the outcome of Mr Ls claim under section 75 as only a court would  be able 
to do that.
Mr L used his HSBC  credit card to pay £6,750  towards the cost of a caravan that he bought  
in June 2013. He entered  into a number of contracts relating to the supply and use of that 
caravan. Mr L upgraded his caravan in February  2015 and entered  into a number of 
contracts relating  to the supply  and use of the upgraded  caravan. But he didnt use his 
HSBC credit card to pay for the upgraded caravan or any of the contracts  relating to it. And 
at that time I consider  that his contracts relating to the caravan that he bought  in June 2013 
ended. And HSBCs liability under section 75 for a breach of contract or misrepresentation of 
those contracts also ended. Mr L had been able to use that caravan on the terms that hed 
agreed  and Im not persuaded that there  was a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by 
the holiday park relating  to any of those contracts.  So I dont consider that HSBC  has any 
liability to Mr L under section 75 relating to the contracts that he signed  in June 2013. 
Mr L used the upgraded caravan on the terms set out in the annual  licence  agreements  that 
he signed. The licence  agreement that he signed in February 2015  said that he was:
 entitled  to use the unit in accordance with our site licence, a copy  of which is 
available in the park office. For the current season you are entitled to use the unit 
from 28.02/15 to 30/11/15.
Hes not provided  copies of the licence agreements for other  years  but I consider that he had 
a reasonable expectation  that hed be able to use his upgraded caravan from the beginning 
of February to the end of November each  year.  And he used his HSBC  credit card in 
October 2017 to pay a £1,000 reservation fee for his 2018  licence. The balance  of £2,295 
was due at the end of January 2018.
 
But Mr L received  a letter from the local council  in November 2017 which said that the 
holiday park had been operating in breach of its planning conditions and that the approved  
occupancy period for the holiday park was from mid-March until the end of October (and that 
the caravans could  only be used at weekends outside of that period). 
Mr L complained to the holiday park and then claimed a refund from HSBC under section 75. 
But he paid the balance of the licence fee that was due for his 2018  licence knowing that he 
was only able to occupy his upgraded caravan until the end of October 2018. And he says 
that hes now sold his caravan and didnt enter into a licence agreement for 2019. HSBC has 
offered to refund the £1,000 reservation fee that Mr L paid as a gesture of goodwill and in full 
and final settlement of his claim. I consider that offer to have been fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And if Mr L now wants to accept that offer I suggest that he contacts  HSBC  
to see if the offer remains available to him. 
But Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable  for me to require HSBC  to refund to 
Mr L the £2,295  balance  of the licence fee  or any of the other  payments that hes made  to 
buy or use the upgraded caravan. Nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require HSBC  to refund to Mr L any of the payments that he made  for the caravan that 
he bought in June 2013.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN47077823Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4707782