K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) declined  to help them  to 
recover money they lost due to a scam.
background
Mr and Mrs H say in October  2015 they bought a holiday  membership  from a business that 
Ill call Business A, using  funds  from three  accounts, including  one they held with 
Santander. They say they were only able to make very limited use of the service provided  by 
Business A and they say it ceased  trading in November 2018.
Mr and Mrs H also say they sought the help of Santander to get their money back. 
Santander said it wouldnt cover  any loss incurred as a result  of customers willingly  sending 
funds for potential investments or purchases. But it would  assist in attempting  to secure and 
return funds. However,  Santander said, due to Mr and Mrs H willingly making the payment to 
Business A, it couldnt be held responsible for the loss on their account. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said Business  
As account had been closed by the time Mr and Mrs H complained about this matter.  So, 
there wasnt anything  Santander  could have  done  on their behalf  to try to get their money 
back. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the investigators conclusions.  So, the matter has been 
referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see in October 2015, Mr and Mrs H made a payment of £1,000 to Business  A from their 
Santander account. And I see they contacted Santander in October  2018  to dispute this 
payment. I also see Santander told Mr and Mrs H that as they had willingly  made  the 
payment to Business A, it couldnt be held responsible for the loss they had suffered.
I understand Business A had ceased  trading and its bank account had been  closed before 
Mr and Mrs H raised  this matter with Santander.  And I think thats significant because it 
meant there  werent any steps  Santander could have reasonably taken  at that stage to help 
Mr and Mrs H to recover their money. 
Mr and Mrs H have clearly suffered loss as a result of the actions of Business A and Ive 
great sympathy for them. But they chose to make the payment to Business A and in these 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to require Santander to reimburse the money theyve  
lost or to take legal  action to try to recover it on their behalf. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN44648732My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4464873