K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  applied  fees and charges  to his 
personal accounts after they were  closed. Mr E also complains RBS didnt  allow him to 
switch his personal accounts.
background
RBS closed several of Mr Es accounts  in May 2018, including  his personal accounts,  a joint 
mortgage and a business account. Mr E made several complaints to us about these 
closures, but this complaint relates  solely to fees and charges applied  to Mr Es current 
account, ISA and savings account.  Ill refer to these as his personal accounts.
Mr E says RBS incorrectly applied fees and charges to his personal accounts because  it 
failed to stop direct debits  and standing orders after it closed  them. He says that RBS 
refused to allow him to switch his personal  accounts and this is why he incurred the charges. 
RBS says that Mr Es current account was successfully switched in January 2018 without 
any fees or charges being applied.  It also says that it closed Mr Es ISA and savings account 
without applying any fees or charges  in May 2018.  
Our investigator said that RBS didnt do anything wrong because she couldnt  find evidence  
of any fees and charges being applied to his personal accounts  after they were closed. Mr E 
disagreed and asked me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the statements and closure  information for Mr Es personal accounts. I can see 
that his current account  was successfully switched in January  2018  without any fees or 
charges being  applied.  I can also see that RBS didnt apply fees or charges to Mr Es ISA 
and savings account after they were  closed. The statements also show  that the balances for 
his ISA and his savings account were transferred out leaving a zero balance. 
Ref: DRN47980202Weve asked Mr E to provide evidence of the fees and charges hes complaining about. Hes 
provided evidence  relating  to a third party account  and a business account hes associated 
with but not evidence relating to his personal  accounts. Based on everything Ive seen, I 
cant say that RBS incorrectly applied fees and charges to Mr Es personal accounts or 
refused to allow him to switch them.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798020