K821x#15complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the rate of interest  she has been charged by National Westminster  
Bank Plc (NatWest) and with two second credit  searches which appeared on her credit file. 
She also complains that she didnt  receive a subject  access  request she asked for.
background
Ms A has three separate areas of complaint.  
Interest rates
Ms A says despite being  a loyal customer of NatWest for years  with six loan agreements and 
an excellent repayment record, the bank  charged  her unreasonably high rates  of interest.
Ms A has taken out many  loans with NatWest although the bank  has only given  us consent 
to look at those  taken out since  1 August 2012.  These are as follows:
Application date Amount Annual Percentage  Rate
20 May 2013 £3,000 28
10 March 2014 £7,500 21.5
22 February 2016 £3,000 23.6
12 February 2018 £3,000 19.2
Credit searches
Ms A also complains that after she applied online to increase her overdraft in December 
2017, two credit searches appeared on her credit  file. Ms A felt that NatWest only needed to 
carry out one credit  search.  She felt the second  one could disadvantage  her when viewed by 
any prospective lenders  in the future. So, she asked NatWest to have  the additional 
(redundant) search  removed. NatWest apologised to Ms A and agreed to contact the credit 
reference agencies  to have this done.
This happened again, in August  2018,  when Ms A applied for another loan. Again, two credit 
searches were recorded. And again,  Ms A asked NatWest to have the additional search  
removed from her file. Despite assurances  from NatWest that this was done, the additional  
search wasnt removed  and remained  on her file for over twelve months.
Subject access request
Finally, Ms A is also unhappy because although she made a subject access request (SAR) 
to NatWest, she didnt  receive this.
Ms A complained to NatWest. In its final response  letter of August 2018,  NatWest addressed 
the first two issues. In respect of the interest  rates, they said theyd reviewed the loans  Ms A 
had taken out since 1 August 2012.  They  explained in detail the many factors personal to Ms 
A which theyd considered  to produce an Annual  Percentage Rate  (APR) for her loans. And 
they said theyd  carried out credit  checks  for each loan. NatWest  also explained they 
couldnt just amend an APR provided on a loan application once the loan had been utilised 
because the APR was specific to each  customer,  taking into consideration the factors 
mentioned. And if they amended an APR it could be deemed irresponsible lending. They 
also said there was a 14-day cooling off period under which Ms A could have  cancelled  the 
Ref: DRN45702022loan. And they pointed  out shed signed  the agreements and accepted  the terms and 
conditions, including  the rates.
So, NatWest  said they hadnt done  anything wrong in respect of Ms As loans.
In respect of the searches  appearing on Ms As credit file, NatWest  said they could see that 
two applications  appeared on their systems in December 2017  for the same amount. They 
apologised and said theyd contacted  the credit reference agencies  to have the footprint 
removed from Ms As credit  file. They said this could take up to four weeks to complete.
Ms A wasnt happy with NatWests response  and in August 2018, she brought her complaint 
to us. In December 2018, Ms A told us shed also made a SAR which  she hadnt received.
In January 2019, our adjudicator sent out his view. He said he didnt think NatWest had 
made any errors with the APR rates theyd provided.  He explained the processes  the bank 
followed in offering loans, including the consumer credit agreement and 14-day cooling off 
period. He reminded Ms A that each time a loan was agreed, an agreement would have 
been sent displaying the interest rate applicable  and said she hadnt advised  she hadnt 
seen these. He said it was the consumers  decision to agree to the rate by signing the 
consumer credit agreement, which she had. And he concluded that she was simply unhappy 
with the levels of interest that had been  applied.
However, our adjudicator  thought NatWest  did need  to remove one of the credit  searches 
from December 2017, and one from August 2018. He noted that NatWest had already asked 
the credit  reference  agency to do this. As the extra  2017 search  hadnt  been removed and 
because another  double  search had been carried out in August 2018, he thought  NatWest  
should pay Ms A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Our adjudicator also said NatWest had sent Ms A the information shed asked for in her 
SAR. But as Ms A said she hadnt  received it, he asked them to send this again.
NatWest agreed with the adjudicators recommendations.  But Ms A rejected the offer 
because she said shed  received no compensation payment so far, the searches were  still 
showing on her credit file, and she still hadnt  received  the SAR.
In July 2019, Ms A sent us a copy of a credit file dated that month, which confirmed  that the 
two additional  searches  from August  2017  and December 2018  were still on her file. She 
also confirmed she still hadnt received  the SAR. Our adjudicator  contacted NatWest, asking 
them to confirm the current position, and they responded  in September  explaining their SAR 
team had had concerns about  the security  of Ms As address but had been unable to reach 
her to provide confirmation. So, they still hadnt  sent it.
In November 2019, another investigator sent Ms A a second  view on her complaint, which  
he said should be read together with the previous view.  This was to ensure  that all aspects 
of Ms As complaint had been covered. The investigator said he thought NatWest had dealt 
with Ms As complaint fairly, so he wouldnt be asking them to do anything. Addressing the 
high interest rates Ms A had complained of, the investigator said hed looked  at the terms 
and conditions provided by NatWest for the period  covering  the loans, as well as the credit 
checks undertaken for each loan. Having done  so, he thought NatWest had acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying the level of interest  to Ms As personal loans.
Ms A disagreed. So, now the case has come  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN45702023my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Interest rates
NatWest only consented for us to look at the loans Ms A took out since  1 August 2012.  And 
Ms A accepted this. So, Ill be restricting myself  to considering the four loans which  I set out 
above.
NatWest have provided a loan application  history confirming Ms As applications. They  also 
provided details  of the loans and interest  rates  applied to each loan. And theyve  told us 
about the various factors they consider for every applicant. These include the applicants  
credit score, income, expenditure, account activity  and management, internal lending history,  
personal circumstances, the amount and the term of the loan. I can also see from Ms As 
application history, that credit checks were undertaken  by NatWest at the time of each  of her 
applications.
Based on all this information,  the banks internal system produced an APR figure  for each 
loan which  was specific to Ms A. NatWest have told us that if they offered a different APR, 
this might be deemed irresponsible lending, and be unfair towards other customers.
NatWest have also told us that when Ms A completed  each of her loan applications, she was 
provided with a consumer credit  agreement which contained all the terms and conditions of 
the loan - including the APR. This isnt disputed by Ms A. She acknowledges that she 
accepted the terms and conditions of each loan. Nor did she make any attempt to cancel 
them within the 14-day cooling off period. Instead,  she argues that her APRs  were unfairly 
assessed. And she thought the rates on these loans  were higher because  of the additional  
credit searches.
But Im satisfied that NatWest followed their standard procedures  in respect of the loans Ms 
A took out, and their assessment process  was fair, so I cant  fault them  for that. And I think 
Ms A agreed to the loans  on an individual basis and accepted the terms and conditions  
which included the APR interest payable  for each  one. Ill address any potential impact of the 
credit searches in greater  detail below.
Ive also looked  at NatWests records and see that Ms A applied for many loans over a 
number of years. Between  September  2007 and August 2018, she made  14 loan 
applications, which were  accepted  and these included the four loans currently  under 
discussion. But between  November 2008  and June  2016, I see Ms A made a further nine 
applications which were  all declined.  When  she took out the first of the four loans that form 
the subject matter of this complaint in May 2013,  shed  already borrowed £3,000  a year 
earlier. And NatWest have confirmed that at least two of the other loans in question  were 
taken out as a means of consolidating her existing debt. 
So, I think Ms As application history  would have had a significant impact  on the interest 
rates NatWests decided  to apply. And, in such circumstances, I think NatWest acted fairly 
and reasonably in applying  the level of interest  charges to Ms As loans and I cant conclude  
theyve done anything wrong . And I wont be making  any recommendation here.
Affordability
Ref: DRN45702024Although Ms A didnt specifically raise  the issue, Ive also considered  the question  of 
affordability of these loans.
We raised this with Ms A in June  2020 and she didnt tell us the loans were unaffordable 
although she repeated that she thought  her APR had been  unfairly  assessed  with 
unnecessarily high rates because of the additional  credit searches NatWest didnt remove. 
Ms A told us that shed never missed a payment on any of her loans. She also told us she 
has now been able to sort out most of her finances,  borrowing from other  lenders at lower 
rates and from her family. So, while I appreciate Ms As concerns about the APRs on her 
loans, Im satisfied that her complaint relates  to how unhappy she is with the levels  of 
interest, and I dont think NatWest did wrong  by offering her loans which were unaffordable. 
So, I dont think NatWest  have done  anything wrong  in relation this this point. 
Credit searches
NatWest accepted that two additional credit  searches appeared on Ms As file in respect  of 
December 2017  and August 2018.  They apologised and told her theyd  taken on board her 
feedback to improve their online system. They also agreed to contact the credit  reference 
agencies to have  the additional searches  removed  from Ms As credit file. They  explained 
this could take up to four weeks.
Banks are entitled to carry out a credit  search to assess a customers credit worthiness, 
although they shouldnt be recorded  twice. Ms A felt that if the searches hadnt remained on 
her credit file, shed have  got a better rate of interest either with her own bank or elsewhere. 
She also thinks the extra searches affected  her ability to get the best rate on a new 
mortgage she took out. But she hasnt  provided  us with evidence  to support this. She told us 
that after the additional searches were  finally  removed, she was approved  for a different deal 
at a lower rate although  she hasnt provided details of this either.
But Im not convinced the additional searches had the adverse effect Ms A thinks.  And she 
hasnt provided  us with evidence   such as the (prospective)  lender telling her specifically 
that their decision was because of the additional searches, rather  than any of the other 
aspects of Ms As credit footprint they might  have considered - to support what  she feels. 
So, while I understand Ms As position,  I think that Ms As overall  level of indebtedness is 
likely to have had a greater impact on Ms As credit  rating than a couple of additional 
searches over a nine-month period.  I also think that Ms As repayment history,  would only 
have formed part of the story when NatWest was calculating the interest rate it was willing  to 
lend at when it offered  Ms A the loans.
NatWest asked the credit reference agencies to remove the two additional searches in 
August and December  2018. However, looking at Ms As credit  file, I also see they were still 
there as late as July 2019. So, despite  assurances  from NatWest, the additional  searches  
were on her file for at least seventeen  months in the case  of the 2017 search, and at least 
twelve months in the case of the 2018 search.
While the problem wasnt entirely the responsibility of NatWest,  they did tell Ms A that theyd 
taken on board her feedback to improve their online system. But its certainly not clear that 
they did so. From the correspondence Ive seen,  NatWest instructed the credit reference 
agencies to remove the additional searches in December 2017 but even after the 
adjudicators view in January  2019,  the additional searches were still on Ms As file, as 
NatWest knew. And even then, they were still on her file in July 2019.  And the fact that this 
Ref: DRN45702025went on for years caused Ms A a great  deal of distress and inconvenience.  So, because  the 
two searches appeared in the first place,  and because  they remained on Ms As file for such  
a long time - even  many months after NatWest assured her theyd been  removed - I think a 
payment of £200  for distress and inconvenience  would be fair and reasonable here.
Im also aware that because of Ms As anxiety about  the additional searches, she was 
paying £10 a month to a credit reference  agency to monitor the situation.  And under the 
circumstances, I dont  think  this is unreasonable. So, because I think  the situation  had not 
been addressed  by NatWest as robustly  as it should  have been, I also think it would be fair 
and reasonable for NatWest to pay Ms A £10 a month for eighteen months which  is a further 
£180.
Subject access request
Having looked  at NatWests correspondence records,  Im satisfied  that in response to Ms As 
original SAR request,  the bank did send out the relevant information in August 2018. Theyve 
told us they sent it by courier and that it was signed  for. They  also confirmed this to Ms A in 
February 2019.
But Ms A told us that she didnt receive  the SAR because it was sent to the wrong address. 
It seems  this happened because Ms A had moved house at this time and she says she 
informed the bank when she opened  a new joint account with her partner. While I havent 
seen evidence of this on the file, I have no reason to doubt  Ms As account and NatWest 
havent said otherwise.
Then NatWest told us they would send out the SAR again in February 2019. But NatWest  
didnt send it. And I see that NatWest were still trying to confirm Ms As correct  address in 
September. Its not clear exactly when her SAR was sent out again  but Ms A told us that it 
didnt arrive until November 2019.  This was over a year after it was sent out the first time 
and ten months  after the adjudicators view asking for it to be sent again.
I think this is also poor customer service on the part of NatWest. So, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for them to pay a further  £100 to Ms A in compensation for this.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Ms A and NatWest accepted my provisional  decision. So, now the case  has been 
passed back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
Ref: DRN45702026my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that National Westminster  Bank  Plc should  pay 
Ms A the following  by way of compensation:
£200 in connection with the unnecessary searches on her credit file;
£180 for the money she paid for ongoing  access to her credit  file; and
£100 in respect  of her SAR.
This comes to a total of £480.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4570202