K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about 8 loans Sunny provided to Mr W between November 2016 and 
March 2017. Heres a table showing  these  loans - all have been repaid.
Loan amount £ loan start loan paid
1 100 02/11/2016 24/02/2017
2 50 14/11/2016 24/02/2017
3 50 16/11/2016 24/02/2017
4 100 17/11/2016 24/02/2017
5 400 01/03/2017 29/03/2017
6 200 03/03/2017 29/03/2017
7 100 25/03/2017 29/03/2017
8 50 27/03/2017 29/03/2017
Mr W complained  that Sunny had failed to correctly  identify that he couldnt  afford  to repay  
and said hed become stuck in a debt spiral  of borrowing to repay previous loans.
Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld in part. She said that by loan 4 Mr W 
already had three loans outstanding, so this shouldve alerted Sunny to the possibility that he 
might have been having problems managing  his money. And Sunny ought to have realised  it 
was unlikely Mr W would've been able to repay this borrowing,  and any subsequent loans, in 
a sustainable  way. And by loan 6, our adjudicator  felt that Mr Ws overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested hed become  persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have given Mr W loan 4 or any further loans after 
that. 
To put things right our adjudicator recommended that Sunny should  refund all interest and 
charges Mr W had paid on loans 4 - 8 plus interest  on the refunds, and amend  his credit file 
to remove any adverse information about loans 4 and 5, and all information recorded about 
loans 6,7 and 8.
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly  it said it carried out eligibility, 
creditworthiness and affordability checks before making a decision to provide lending or 
decline a loan application. And, having done  so, the loans it agreed  to make to Mr W were 
deemed to be affordable  and sustainable  based  upon the information he provided.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ref: DRN45379612Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first four loans were proportionate. 
Given these repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think  it wouldve been  proportionate 
for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would  be needed to show the lending  
was unsustainable  before agreeing the first three loans. 
I think by loan 5 Sunny mightve started  to have some concerns about  Mr Ws borrowing. 
I say this because  hed first approached Sunny for a loan some  4 months earlier. Sunny 
could see that loan 5 was the biggest single  amount  hed asked to borrow.  And Mr W applied  
for this borrowing less than a week  after repaying  loans 1, 2, 3 and 4. But his previous 
borrowing had all been repaid without Mr W giving Sunny any sign this was difficult  for him. 
So I dont  think I can fairly say that his application for loan 5 shouldve  prompted Sunny to 
make further  checks to satisfy itself about the state  of Mr Ws finances. 
Ref: DRN45379613But, just two days later Mr W took out loan 6  for another £200 on top of the £400 hed just 
borrowed. So I think Sunny ought  definitely by that point to have realised that it was no 
longer reasonable to base  its lending  decision  on the information Mr W was providing. I think  
it would  have been proportionate for Sunny to have  taken  steps  to independently  check 
Mr Ws financial situation.
Had Sunny  looked  in depth at Mr Ws finances  it would have seen that he had also been 
borrowing high cost short term loans elsewhere. But up until March 2017, as far as I can 
see, it wouldve  looked like all his loans had been for relatively small amounts. And looking 
at the information thats likely  to have been available  to Sunny about the total combined  
monthly repayments Mr W had to make on all his outstanding borrowing when he took 
loan 6, I dont  think this wouldve been  large enough for me reasonably to say Sunny 
shouldnt have lent loan 6 to Mr W based on his other short  term borrowing alone. 
But when Mr W applied for loan 7 on 25 March 2017, I think  Sunny shouldve been seriously 
concerned about  whether this was really affordable for him. Sunny could see that Mr W was 
asking to borrow another £100 on top of the £600 hed already borrowed from Sunny that 
month  and which hed yet to make any repayments towards. I think a detailed look at his 
finances was warranted  and by then its likely Sunny couldve seen that hed also borrowed 
£250 from another provider of short term high cost credit around the time he took out loan 6 
with Sunny, in addition  to his other existing short term loans. So this took his March 
borrowing up to £850  and loan 7 added another £100 to this figure.  
So, I think Sunny ought  reasonably to have  concluded that it was likely Mr W needed  such  a 
large amount of extra borrowing because  he was having problems managing his loan 
repayments.
This means  that by loan 7, I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to conclude that it was 
likely Mr W would be able to repay  this, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable  way.
So Im currently intending to uphold the complaint  about loans  7 and 8. 
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither Mr W nor Sunny sent me any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN45379614putting things right  what Sunny should  do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 7 and 8 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any negative information  about loans 7 and 8 from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Elevate Credit International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
pay Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4537961