K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms J have complained about their home  insurer Aviva  Insurance Limited because 
it declined a claim they made as a result of rain coming into their home.
background
Mr M and Ms J found  water  was coming into their home. They called Aviva.  Aviva  said it 
could send an assessor out or they could get their own report  on the damage. Mr M obtained 
a report and sent it to Aviva. 
The report  said:
Following an initial inspection, I can see that the cement filling between the rear bedroom  
roof and the main building, has broken apart and fallen away from the house.  This has 
therefore exposed  the brickwork and wall plate to the elements. Water/rain  has entered the 
building via this opening and caused damage  to other areas of the property.
Mr M believed this was all due to heavy rainfall.  Aviva said the claim was being declined 
because the damage had been caused by a lack of maintenance.  Aviva  also referred to the 
fact that there hadnt been a storm. Mr M provided  evidence that the roof had been 
maintained but Aviva  still refused the claim. Mr M and Ms J complained  to this service. 
Our investigator noted that there hadnt  been  a storm but explained that even if there had 
been, the report provided suggested the damage  hadnt been caused by storm conditions. 
She also noted that Mr M and Ms Js policy didnt benefit from extended accidental damage 
cover, which  meant she couldnt consider whether the any of the damage might  fairly be 
considered under that section of the policy. She felt Avivas decline of the claim had been  
fair and reasonable.
Mr M and Ms J were unhappy. They  said they had never argued the damage had been 
caused by a storm so didnt  understand  why we were considering the matter in this way. 
They said their issue had always  been  that Aviva  declined the claim on the basis  of a lack of 
maintenance but when this fact was challenged and proven to be incorrect the reason for the 
decline changed to there not having been a storm. Mr M asked that Aviva accept the claim  
given they hadnt known  there was a problem with the roof.
Our investigator explained that we had to look at this under cover for storm because  Mr M 
had argued that rain had caused  the damage. As Mr M and Ms J remained unhappy the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr M and Ms J have, like many on the market, doesnt cover  them  for all types  of 
damage that might occur at their home. And they havent taken the optional  cover for 
damage caused accidentally (unexpected and unintended). So only if loss and/or damage is 
caused by, not just during, certain  listed events will Lloyds  be liable for remediating  them.
Ref: DRN45179582There are a number of events listed as covered  by the policy.  Given  Mr Ms account of rain 
having caused damage the most relevant  one for the claim to be considered under is 
storm. There  isnt cover for damage caused  by general rain or weather conditions, and 
damage which occurs gradually  and/or as a result of wear and tear is excluded.
When considering  storm complaints the first question we always ask is, was there  a storm? 
If there wasnt  then there cant  be a successful claim under the storm cover provided by the 
policy. If there was a storm then well consider if the damage was consistent  with that 
generally caused by a storm and if the storm was likely the main cause of the damage  in the 
relevant circumstances. Here, there wasnt a storm.
A storm  doesnt have  to be winds and rain or hail or snow.  Rain by itself  if its intense 
enough, can be considered a storm. But the maximum rainfall in the weeks prior to the 
damage occurring  fell on the day the damage was noted. And that was only 5.2mm  in one 
hour. That isnt enough  to be considered a storm.
It might have  been better for Aviva  to explain why it was considering  the claim under the 
storm section of the policy when declining this claim,  rather  than focusing on what likely 
caused the damage. I can understand why Avivas  decision to re-focus the reason for its 
decision to decline the claim on to the lack of a storm having occurred was frustrating for 
Mr M and Ms J. But the change in direction  isnt cause  for making  Aviva  change its position 
on the claim itself and I am satisfied that its decline  was fair and reasonable. I also think it is 
the fact of the decline, rather than the change of reason,  that has caused the most upset for 
Mr M and Ms J. The decline  leaves them needing to find nearly £6,500  to both replace  the 
roof and repair the internal parts of their home damaged by the rainwater ingress.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4517958