K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains about the interest rate on his mortgage with National Westminster  Bank  Plc.
Background
Mr C was looking to move house and applied for a mortgage with NatWest  through  a 
mortgage broker.
He was offered  a mortgage with NatWest  and chose a two year fixed  rate product.
Shortly before the sale was completed  on the house, Mr C was able to negotiate a lower  
price, which meant he needed to borrow less money from NatWest.
NatWest recalculated the mortgage and sent Mr C a new offer via his broker. This offer had 
a slightly different interest rate, and was fixed for an extra four months.  Mr C agreed to this 
new offer,  and went on to purchase his house.
Almost two years after Mr C bought  his house,  he contacted NatWest to change  his 
mortgage product  and move to a lower  interest  rate. But he was told it wasnt  the right time 
to do so, and that he needed to wait three months  longer  than he was expecting  before he 
could move to a lower  rate.
Unhappy, Mr C complained to NatWest. He said it wasnt clear his interest rate would be 
fixed for longer  than two years. And he doesnt think its fair the product  was advertised as 
having a fixed  rate for two years,  when  it was in fact, fixed for two years and four months.
NatWest said itd made it clear in the second  offer how long the interest rate would be fixed  
for, so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. And it said the fixed  rate on the first 
mortgage offer it sent Mr Cs broker was also fixed for more  than two years.  It said if Mr C 
wanted to move to a lower interest  rate with it, or move his mortgage to another provider 
before his product expired, hed have to pay an early repayment charge.
Mr C remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. He maintained it wasnt fair his 
fixed rate was now fixed for longer, and said this wasnt made clear to him when he took out 
the mortgage. He also said when he called  to query  this, the staff were  unhelpful,  and 
blamed his broker.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said NatWest  made  it 
clear in the mortgage offer how long the interest rate would be fixed  for, and she was 
satisfied this information was sent to both Mr C and his broker.
She said shed listened  to the calls between Mr C and NatWest and while  she acknowledged 
Mr Cs frustration, she didnt think NatWest had been unprofessional.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN44244332I understand Mr Cs frustration with finding out his mortgage has an interest  rate fixed  for 
longer than he thought. Its understandable that he wants to move to a lower rate as soon as 
possible, and use the extra money  available to him to support his family.
But NatWest  didnt  sell Mr C his mortgage, this was done through  a broker. This means  I 
cant hold NatWest accountable for any acts or omissions it wasnt responsible for.
As the lender, NatWest  needs to make it clear  what its offering, and on what terms. And 
having considered the documentation, Im satisfied  its done this.
I understand Mr Cs point of view that a two year fixed  rate mortgage should have the 
interest rate fixed for two years exactly.  But in reality, this isnt the case. 
When a mortgage  is offered  to help purchase  a new home, its usually valid for a period of 
time. This means so long as the completion  of the sale and the exchange of contracts is 
completed within that time, the mortgage  will be offered on those  terms. This is reasonable 
as it gives the purchaser  of the home time to complete the purchase. But this needs  to be 
made clear in the offer.
The lender  needs to fix the terms that bind the offer at the point it makes it. So often a two 
year fixed  rate mortgage will have the interest rate fixed for more than two years after the 
offer is made to allow  the interest  rate to be fixed for two years from when the funds are 
taken after the sale is completed.
This is shown by Mr Cs first mortgage offer from NatWest. The offer was made  to him with a 
two year fixed rate product. But the interest rate was fixed  for two years and three months.
Closer to the time,  Mr C was fortunate enough to reduce the asking price on the house  he 
was buying. This meant he needed to borrow less money from NatWest.
The amount  of money borrowed  is a key part of the mortgage offer, so NatWest  had to refer 
the application to their underwriting  team and a new offer was made to Mr C via his broker.  
Ive seen the underwriting notes that show a new offer needed to be made  due to the 
different amount being borrowed.
This second offer also had a lower  interest rate, but was also fixed for two years and four 
months from when the offer was made.  So as this offer was made after the first, it follows 
that the interest rate was fixed for longer.
Importantly, NatWest have an obligation  to make  it clear what terms bind the mortgage, and 
in this case Im satisfied its met this obligation.  As mentioned above, Ive seen both 
mortgage offers, and the letters accompanying them, and Im satisfied the amount of time 
the interest rate is fixed for is clear on both. And Im satisfied looking at these letters,  that 
NatWest made it clear the second  offer superseded the first.
Ive also listened  to the calls between Mr C and NatWest. Im satisfied the staff members  
involved werent unprofessional, nor did they give Mr C any incorrect advice. This being so, I 
dont require NatWest  to take further action.
Ref: DRN44244333My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Joe Thornley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4424433