K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about a packaged bank account called an Advance account which
she bought from HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC). She thinks that HSBC misled her about some 
of the benefits  of the account  and she wants it to refund her some  of the fees she paid for it.
background
I previously sent HSBC and Miss M a provisional decision on this complaint. That
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and
I explained why I thought  that HSBC should compensate Miss M for the problems she 
experienced. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to
consider before I made  a final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed, and both parties  have replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Miss M and HSBC have told us or sent us throughout the 
case, but the new information has not changed my provisional decision to uphold  Miss Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Firstly, I would like to reconfirm that Miss M is not complaining about the way HSBC  sold her 
the Advance account. Her complaint is about what happened afterwards.
HSBC responded  to my provisional decision with several points. In outline: 
1.It described an earlier complaint Miss M had made about a previous mortgage,  which  
it says it upheld, before Miss M opened the Advance account.  It has told us that it 
has records showing that Miss M queried  the interest rate on her mortgage  at this 
time, but not after it sold her the Advance  account.  
2.It has sent us a table  from 2010 which listed the interest rates  it charged on different 
types of mortgage  at that time. Its explained  that the mortgage Miss M chose in 2010 
was available  to customers  who held fee-free or Advance accounts, but Advance 
account holders  who kept their accounts for twelve months would  save £900 on 
booking fees.
3.It has pointed out that whenever Miss M approached it about  a mortgage, she 
benefitted from a preferential booking fee and not a preferential rate of interest  and 
has told us that Miss M has never  received a preferential  rate on either  of the 
mortgages she held.
4.It has pointed out that it didnt launch  its webchat service until 2016 and so Miss M 
couldnt have  used it before then.
Ref: DRN469957025.It has told us that it thinks the information  it gave Miss M about her mortgage was 
very clear at the outset and so it finds it difficult to understand  why (she) would 
have (needed to get in touch ) a year later to query her mortgage rate.
Miss Ms reply to my provisional decision was relatively brief.  She said that after she took the 
Advance account, she definitely  called HSBC on at least  three  occasions  to ask what  
would happen  to the interest rate on her mortgage rate if she changed to a fee-free account 
and that HSBC didnt answer  her accurately. But she had nothing further to add to her 
previous comments.  So I will turn to HSBCs arguments and consider each point in turn. 
. 
1.Miss Ms earlier complaint and HSBCs lack of records of her phone calls
HSBC had already  sent us information  about Miss Ms earlier  complaint and the 
compensation it paid her. I fully accept  that it upheld the earlier  complaint. But 
Miss Ms current  complaint  is about  events which took place around two to three years  
later, so the earlier issues are not directly  relevant.
In fairness to HSBC,  I have considered  whether Miss M may be confusing calls she 
made about the earlier complaint with calls she thinks she made about this one. I 
accept this is possible, but given  the consistency and coherence of Miss Ms 
description of what happened, I think its unlikely. 
I mentioned HSBCs lack of records in my provisional decision when I said that despite 
this I was satisfied that Miss M had contacted HSBC in the way she described. This 
remains my opinion. 
2.The mortgage  Miss  M took was available to customers  with fee-free accounts, 
Miss M only saved  on booking fees
I accept this and this point may have been  relevant  if Miss M was complaining  about  
the way HSBC sold her the mortgage  or the Advance account. But she isnt; shes 
complaining about what happened  afterwards and HSBC not answering her questions  
accurately. So this point does not change my assessment of her complaint.  
3.Miss M never had a preferential mortgage rate, only a reduced  booking fee
I accept this, and so does Miss M. But the crux of her complaint is that when she 
asked HSBC about this earlier, it either couldnt  tell her or misled  her. 
4.HSBC didnt launch its webchat service until 2016
I accept this, along with the obvious implication that Miss M couldnt have used this 
service in 2011. 
In my provisional decision,  I said that Miss M couldnt tell us exactly when she made 
her phone calls or used the webchat service and I find no contradiction here.  As I said 
in my provisional decision,  Miss M has been precise about how and why she contacted 
HSBC, and about the questions she asked and the answers HSBC  gave her. 
Miss M has also told us that she made the first contact with HSBC  around a year after 
she opened the Advance account  and took the new mortgage. This is entirely 
Ref: DRN46995703consistent with the rest of Miss Ms description. I remain satisfied that she made this 
contact, although  I fully accept she could not have done so using  the webchat service  
until later.  
5.The information  it gave  Miss M about  the mortgage was clear 
Im not sure what information  HSBC is referring to, but for the purpose of assessing  
this complaint, I am willing  to accept its view about this. However, some twelve  months  
later it seems to me that Miss M wanted to check things,  and chose to call HSBC to 
ask. The terms and conditions affecting  mortgages  and bank accounts  can be quite 
complex and can also change from time-to-time. So I think  it was quite reasonable for 
Miss M to ask for up-to-date information  before making any changes to her account. 
HSBC has also told us that Miss M could have found all the information she needed 
online. I havent been able to check this, but again for the purpose of assessing  this 
complaint, I am willing to accept HSBCs view. However, Miss M chose to contact 
HSBC by telephone (and later by webchat ) and I think she was entitled to expect a 
clear and accurate  answer to her questions.  
So, after considering HSBCs points,  I remain  satisfied that around twelve months  after 
Miss M took out her new mortgage and the Advance account,  she contacted HSBC to ask 
what would  happen  to the interest rate on her mortgage if she closed her Advance  account, 
and that HSBC didnt give her an accurate  answer. Had it done so, I think Miss M would 
have closed the account and saved her monthly  fees. 
HSBC should  now put things right for Miss M by paying her appropriate compensation.
putting things right
To put things right for Miss M, HSBC should  put her into the financial position she would
have been in if she had closed her Advance account the first time she asked about the
impact of doing so on her mortgage interest rate. 
I dont know for certain exactly when  Miss M first contacted HSBC about this, but I think  its 
highly likely  that she did so quite promptly after the twelve  month period had passed. Miss M 
opened the account in late March 2010,  so it seems reasonable that if HSBC had done 
things fairly,  she would have closed it by the end of April 2011.
HSBC should  therefore:
refund  Miss M all the fees she paid for the Advance account from 1 May 2011 until 
she closed the account
add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Miss M paid the fee until the date HSBC makes  the refund  (+).
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must
give Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken if she asks for one.
If HSBC can show that Miss M gained financially from the banking benefits  that came  with
the Advance account from 1 May 2011  onwards,  then it may deduct  the relevant amount  
from the compensation. HSBC has told us that it believes Miss M did gain in this way by 
Ref: DRN46995704getting a better rate of interest on her savings  account. I havent asked to see HSBCs 
calculations, and it isnt necessary for me to do so, but if it wishes to make deductions from 
the compensation, it should set things  out clearly and simply for Miss M so she can follow 
what it has done. For Miss Ms benefits I would also like to point out if these deductions  are 
larger than the refund and interest, then HSBC should not raise any charges against her. 
I understand that during  late 2014,  HSBC stopped charging fees for some customers with
Advance accounts when it changed  the way the account worked. I dont know if this
applied to Miss M, but if it did (and only if it did), then HSBC need  not pay her any
compensation (apart from the interest mentioned above) beyond this time.  Similarly, it
should not deduct any gains she may have made from the banking benefits beyond  this
time.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Miss Ms 
complaint against  HSBC  Bank UK Plc. It should put things right by paying  her the fair 
compensation I have  described.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46995705Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss M has complained about a packaged bank account called an Advance account which
she bought from HSBC  Bank UK Plc (HSBC). She thinks that HSBC misled her about some  of the 
benefits of the account and she wants it to refund her some of the fees she paid for it.
background
The adjudicator who looked into this case didnt think that HSBC  had treated Miss M unfairly
and didnt recommend that it should give her any money back.
Miss M didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to look into
her case. So it has come  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach  to help me to decide what to do in Miss Ms case. Ive looked
into everything that Miss M and HSBC have told us or sent us about the case  so far, and I
currently intend to uphold it. Ill explain why.
HSBC has sent us some  of its record for Miss M. These show that it sold her a mortgage in
2008, but that she didnt  have an HSBC bank account until 2010 when it sold her the
Advance account. She paid a monthly fee for this account and received several potential
benefits in return. These benefits included  travel insurance and car breakdown cover.
Advance account holders  would also pay reduced fees if they bought  some types of
mortgage from HSBC. They could also receive banking benefits, such  as better interest
rates on savings, than HSBCs customers with fee-free  accounts.
Miss Ms mortgage from 2008 had a discounted interest rate, but the discount  period was
due to end in 2010. I understand from both parties that around this time Miss M had several
discussions with HSBC  about  her mortgage options and decided to take one of its tracker
products. The fees to open  this mortgage would be lower if she bought an Advance  bank
account and it seems she did so in order to benefit from these lower  fees. I understand that
she did this online.
Miss Ms complaint is not about the way HSBC sold her the Advance  account, but about
what happened afterwards. Indeed, she has told us that her issue is not that the account
was sold incorrectly,  and she has not requested  that HSBC refund her fees from the time it
sold her the account, but from approximately  twelve months later.
Miss M has told us that a year or so after she took the Advance account, she contacted
HSBC to check how the interest rate on her mortgage would be affected  if she closed  the
Advance account. Shes said she made several phone calls and also used HSBCs online
webchat service, but that on each occasion HSBC gave her completely poor advice and
told her either that it didnt know, or that if she didnt keep the Advance  account her
mortgage interest rate would  increase.
Ref: DRN46995706In more recent correspondence, dating from 2018,  HSBC told Miss M that once twelve
months had passed from the time it sold her the Advance account, she could have switched
to one of its fee-free accounts without having any affect on the rate of interest she would
have to pay on her mortgage. I have no reason to doubt that these recent comments from
HSBC are accurate.
So the critical aspect of this complaint is whether  HSBC misled Miss M in earlier phone  calls
or webchat discussions.
As these events took place quite a few years ago, neither  HSBC  nor Miss M have been able
to send us definitive evidence to show what happened and when. So I cant be sure exactly
what occurred. Instead, I have used the evidence I do have available  to decide what is most
likely to have happened.
HSBC has sent us information from its records database  which shows that over the years it
has had quite  extensive contact with Miss M about her mortgage  and about other financial
matters. In outline,  its records  identify:
some two-way communication in 2008, concerning  a complaint Miss M made  about  her 
original mortgage
some two-way communication in 2010, about Miss Ms choice of the tracker  mortgage
some two-way communication in 2012, when  Miss M asked questions about the travel 
insurance that the Advance account provided
some two-way communication in 2014, when  Miss M wanted to close a savings account she 
had opened with HSBC.
The database also shows that HSBC sent Miss M numerous standard  letters about the
Advance account and that Miss M first raised  this complaint with HSBC  in 2018. But HSBC has no 
records of Miss M questioning what would happen to the interest rate on her tracker mortgage if she 
closed her Advance account. It has argued that this shows that the discussions that Miss M has 
described did not take place.
Of course, as I mentioned  earlier, I cannot be completely  sure about  what  happened, but
throughout our investigation  into this complaint,  Miss M has made  her case precisely and
consistently. She has explained how and why she contacted HSBC, what questions  she
asked and what  answers she received.  She hasnt been able to tell us exactly  when she
made her phone calls or used the webchat service, but I dont find this surprising after so
many years have passed.
From Miss Ms history  with HSBC, Im satisfied that she bought  the Advance account  purely
to save  on the fees associated with opening her tracker  mortgage and not for any of the
other benefits. So to me, her description  is entirely plausible and credible throughout.
HSBC has argued  that as Miss M asked about the travel insurance that came with the
account and may have  gained a better rate of interest on her savings, she must  have wanted
the Advance account for these benefits.  I dont agree.
I accept that Miss M knew about the Advance accounts other  benefits and may well have
used them, but I dont think they were  important  to her. I doubt she would  have wanted to
keep paying for the account for theses benefits alone.
I accept that HSBC has checked its database openly and honestly and I dont know why it
couldnt find any records of Miss Ms calls and webchat  contact,  but in this particular  case
Im not satisfied that this means  she didnt  make contact in the way has she described.
Ref: DRN46995707In correspondence, HSBC  told Miss M that was up to her to continually assess  (her) need
for HSBC  Advance from account opening  and also going  forward.  It seems to me that this
is exactly what Miss M tried to do, but that HSBC misled her about what would happen to the
interest rate she had to pay on her mortgage if she closed  her Advance  account.
If HSBC had answered Miss Ms questions directly and clearly, I think  she would have
closed her Advance account. It should now put things right for her by paying her appropriate
compensation.
putting things  right
To put things right for Miss M, HSBC should put her into the financial position  she would
have been in if she had closed  her Advance account the first time she asked about the
impact of doing so on her mortgage interest rate. I dont know exactly when  Miss M first
contacted HSBC about  this, but I think its highly  likely that she did so quite promptly after
the twelve  month period  had passed. Miss M opened the account  in late March 2010, so it
seems reasonable that if HSBC had done  things  fairly, she would  have closed it by the end
of April 2011.
HSBC should therefore:
refund Miss M all the fees she paid for the Advance account from 1 May 2011 until she closed 
the account
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Miss M 
paid the fee until the date HSBC makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one.
If HSBC can show that Miss M gained financially from the banking benefits  that came with
the Advance account, then it may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation. If it
chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation  clearly and simply  for Miss M so she
can follow what it has done.
I understand that during late 2014, HSBC stopped charging fees for some customers with
Advance accounts when it restructured the way the account worked. I dont know if this
applied to Miss M, but if it did (and only if it did), then HSBC need  not pay her any
compensation (apart from the interest mentioned above)  beyond this time.  Similarly, it
should not deduct any gains she may have made from the banking benefits beyond this
time.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint
Should I finally decide  that way, I will tell HSBC UK Bank to put things right for Miss M by
paying her the compensation  I have described above. But first, I invite both parties  to
respond to this provisional decision with any further comments or arguments they wish to
make, or any information  they wish me to review.
I will consider any responses they send me by 28 February 2020 before making a final
decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699570