K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G)s decision to 
settle a claim as a flood  claim  under  Mr Ss home  insurance  policy. 
background 
Mr S reported that water  had run under his property  and caused damage to a rear garden 
wall during a storm. There was very heavy rainfall  in a short space  of time which led to flash 
flooding in the area.
L&G settled  Mr Ss claim as a flood claim. Mr S believed it should  have  settled it as a storm 
claim. Hes concerned about the impact of having a flood claim recorded against  his property 
and the effect  it will have on future premiums. 
Our investigator thought L&G had correctly recorded the claim as a flood  claim.  But L&G had 
incorrectly told Mr S when  it replied to his complaint that his property  isnt considered  a flood 
risk. L&G told us it cant guarantee  Mr Ss insurance wont be affected by his claim in the 
future. So for the loss of expectation, L&G said it would pay Mr S £100 compensation. Our 
investigator thought  this was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. Ive addressed  his points in my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there was sufficient  rainfall  within a short period of time to meet  the 
definition of storm in L&Gs  policy. However, this doesnt mean  that Mr Ss claim falls under 
this classification.  In this case, I think the rainfall from the storm caused water to build up and 
flood. Its the flood of water that ran under  Mr Ss home that caused damage to their rear 
garden wall.
Mr S has provided a copy of an email  he received from L&Gs loss adjuster in June 2018. 
They said they would ask L&G to record the claim as a storm claim. But the loss adjuster 
was acting on delegated authority from L&G. It was for L&G as the insurer  to make the final 
decision about whether a claim  should be met and how it is recorded in line with the policy.  
Mr S said that if hed known L&G would record the claim  as a flood claim, he would have 
withdrawn his claim. But Mr S also told us that it would have been too costly for him to halt 
the claim.  And I think  from the enquiries Mr S made with L&G he was aware from very early  
on that the claim might be recorded as a flood  claim.  The loss adjusters preliminary report 
listed the damage as storm  flood. Mr S said he was told over the phone in 
December 2018  that L&G had recorded  the claim as a storm claim. This wasnt  correct. L&G 
corrected its mistake in January 2019. I agree that L&G could have made it clearer sooner 
that it settled his claim as a flood claim.  But I dont  think this changes the outcome.
Mr S provided a copy of a news article from our website. It refers to a court  case  about a 
flood claim.  The circumstances  of the incident are similar to Mr Ss. Our approach in relation 
to the court  case  was that it was possible for a flood to happen due to a slow steady build-up 
of water as well as suddenly. 
Ref: DRN43965872Mr S interpreted our approach to mean that a flood  can only be considered  a flood if it enters  
a property and causes damage. But just as a storm doesnt always cause damage, we dont 
consider that a flood always has to cause damage. We look at whether an event occurred 
and then we consider whether the event caused damage and if the insurer acted  reasonably. 
Mr S says that he initially thought the water  had come from a neighbours boundary. He 
reported to the loss adjuster shortly  after that this wasnt  the case. He believes the new 
information he provided is significant.  But I dont  think it made a difference to L&Gs decision 
to record the claim as a flood claim.  L&Gs policy doesnt give a definition of the term flood. 
But it told Mr S that L&G defines  flood as;
water, from any source external to a building which enters a building:  (a) at or below 
ground level, or above ground level, provided that part of the body  of such  water  is at 
ground level: (b) does  so with volume, weight or force which  is substantial  and 
abnormal.
L&Gs policy  says Mr Ss buildings  are insured against loss or damage caused by floods. It 
includes garden walls as buildings under  the policy. 
In Mr Ss case, the flood water came  from heavy rainfall during a storm. If for example the 
heavy rainfall had caused damage to the roof of his home, this would have been classed as 
storm related damage in line with L&Gs policy. The source of the damage was the heavy 
rainfall during  the storm. But it wasnt the rainfall itself that caused damage. 
I think L&G made a mistake when it replied  to Mr Ss complaint. Mr S will need to declare to 
future insurers if asked that hes had a flood claim. And it therefore  could impact on his 
premium in future. For this error, I think L&Gs offer to pay compensation of £100 is 
reasonable. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But I think L&G has 
correctly recorded  the claim as a flood claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Legal & General Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr S £100 compensation  for providing incorrect information about the impact 
the recording of a flood claim might  have on Mr Ss insurance in future.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Ref: DRN43965873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4396587