K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he is financing through an agreement with BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was mis-sold to him.
background
Mr L has been represented by a third party for much  of this process but for ease of reference  
I will refer to Mr L throughout this decision.
Mr L took receipt of a used car in September 2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. The car was first registered in 2014  and was sold as a 
main dealer  approved used car.
In August  2018  Mr L tried to sell the vehicle  on but he was disappointed  to be told by three 
dealerships that they couldnt  buy the car off him because its service record  was incomplete. 
They said this would  prevent them from being able to offer it as an approved used  car. The 
running in service that was due in 2014 hadnt  been completed in time.  It was completed at 
over 1,800  miles and shouldve been done  at 1,200 or within a 500 mile leeway.
So Mr L complained  to BMWFS. He said the car had been mis-sold to him as it clearly  didnt 
qualify as an approved used car. 
BMWFS didnt agree. They said his warranty hadnt been affected by the issue  and they said 
it was more likely that dealerships had refused to buy the car because of its high mileage 
than because the service  was late.
So Mr L referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided an opinion.  She 
didnt agree with BMWFS.  She was persuaded  that the car had been mis-sold to Mr L. She 
noted that hed provided  a telephone call and an email  from dealerships  who were refusing 
to purchase the car because of its incomplete  service history and she agreed that the 
running in service had been  completed 700 miles too late. She realised that the warranty  
hadnt been invalidated but she didnt think this was relevant as she said the missed service  
meant the car shouldnt have been sold as an approved used car. She therefore suggested 
that BMWFS cancel  the finance agreement;  refund Mr Ls deposit and reimburse him for any 
costs he may have incurred with the cancellation of his GAP  insurance.
BMWFS disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. They said the manufacturer had explained the running in service could be 
completed up to 2,000 miles  so it wasnt late at all. Mr L was also a little disappointed as he 
thought his instalments should  be returned to him and that BMWFSs delay had meant  hed 
needed to continue to make  payments  towards a car he no longer wanted or could afford. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN42022612Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement.  The hire purchase  agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car shouldnt  have been 
misrepresented to Mr L. So if he was told something that led him to enter into a finance  
arrangement with BMWFS and if he wouldnt have done that if hed known otherwise, I 
would ask BMWFS to do something to put things right.
Im persuaded that the car was a main dealer approved used car because  its not been  
disputed by the dealership or BMWFS.  The dealership is a main dealership and I think  its 
fair to say that all of their cars would be approved.
The approved used car website says that all its cars have a full service  history that meets  
the manufacturers recommendations.
But I think its clear this car didnt have  a full service history. I think  that the running in 
service  was most probably completed outside  of the requisite service window. I note that 
BMWFS have suggested the manufacturer wouldnt agree with that but Ive heard a phone  
call with one dealership and seen an email  from another, who both say they arent  interested 
in buying the car as the missing service would prevent  them from marketing it as an 
approved used vehicle. Im persuaded that the service window applied by dealerships is for 
the service to have  been completed within 500 miles of the stipulated  mileage and, as Mr Ls 
car wasnt serviced within this period, I am persuaded  that it couldnt  have  been  fairly 
marketed as an approved used  vehicle  and was therefore mis-sold to him.
Im not persuaded by BMWFSs argument that the car was rejected by the dealerships 
because the mileage was high. Whilst the original seller may now be saying thats the case, 
its clear the other two dealerships who were  asked to take the car, rejected it because of 
the missing service history. There was no mention of the mileage  in the telephone call Ive 
listened to or the email communication Ive seen.
I can see that Mr L has been waiting some  time for this decision.  Im very sorry for the delay 
caused by a backlog at this service. Hes understandably disappointed that hes had to keep 
the car for so long whilst he waited for a resolution  to his complaint  and I understand hed 
like some of his finance instalments back.  But Im not persuaded that BMWFSs refusal  to 
settle this complaint has been frivolous.  I think their view that the service history  was 
completed in time was one that they would reasonably want  to pursue and have tested so I 
wont be asking them to make any repayment of instalments  to Mr L. Whilst I understand he 
took the car off the road in late August because he could no longer afford the repayments,  I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest  this was BMWFSs fault. The car has been available to 
him throughout this period and hes had the full benefit of it.
Ref: DRN42022613I think if Mr L hadnt been told the car was an approved used car he would  have been  likely 
not to have entered into the agreement with BMWFS, so I therefore support the view that the 
adjudicator provided.  Mr L should, as far as possible, be put back  in the position he wouldve 
been in had the mis-sale not have happened  and to do that BMWFS  will need  to cancel the 
agreement and refund  the deposit.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay
refund  Mr Ls deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement
reimburse any costs relating to the cancelation  of Mr Ls GAP insurance
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202261