K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about five personal  loans he took out with Everyday Lending  Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans). He says that Everyday Loans irresponsibly  provided the 
loans to him.
background
This complaint is about five loans Mr T was provided with between  August 2014 and January 
2017. His borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Received Consolidation Term Repayment
1 August 2014 £2270 £2000* None 24 months £207.93
2 February 2015 £3627.74 £1000* Loan 1 (£2357.74) 24 months £309.82
3 August 2015 £6000 £2191.61 Loan 2 (£3808.39) 24 months £430.76
4 April 2016 £8696.14 £3500 Loan 3 (£5196.14) 36 months £471.70
5 January 2017 £2778.24 £2778.24 None 24 months £115.76
*an amount of £270 went towards  paying for ancillary accident insurance 
When it investigated Mr Ts complaint,  Everyday  Loans didnt think it had done  anything 
wrong or had acted  unfairly when providing  Mr T with any of his loans.  Mr T was dissatisfied  
with this and referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators then looked at Mr Ts complaint. He thought that Everyday Loans 
unfairly provided loans  two to five to Mr T. So he partially upheld  Mr Ts complaint. 
Everyday Loans  didnt accept our adjudicators assessment. As Everyday Loans disagreed 
with our adjudicator  the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
the regulatory and legal framework
Everyday Loans  was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
throughout the period  it lent to Mr T. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated  firms 
are required  to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
Ref: DRN46266652This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Everyday Loans. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) first published in March  2010 and the rules  set out in 
CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules 
specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on 
many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN46266653CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 5A.3 contains the rules regarding the total amount of charges a firm is permitted to 
impose on a HCSTC agreement.
CONC5A.3.2R says:
Cost caps: imposition  of charges etc.: Total  cost cap
A firm must not:
Ref: DRN46266654(1)impose one or more  charges,  on a borrower under an agreement  for high-cost short-
term credit , that, alone or in combination with any other  charge under the agreement 
or a connected agreement, exceed or are capable of exceeding  the amount 
of credit provided under the agreement;
(2) arrange for or instruct another  person to take the step described  in (1).
 
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Ts loans were  provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came  into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. Section 140A 
says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
Ref: DRN46266655(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Ive also taken account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions  I havent  set out 
above), and other relevant  legislation, including the law relating  to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract;  as well as the law relating to causation and remoteness.
other relevant publications  and good industry  practice
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers have to 
adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter  set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
Ref: DRN46266656a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  industry  practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do so?
Ref: DRN46266657Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday Loans did not act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr T 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday  Loans  was lending to Mr T required it to carry out 
a reasonable assessment of whether Mr T could  afford to repay his loans in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr T. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to think  only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr T himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check will more likely  than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
loan one
Ref: DRN46266658Its my understanding that for loan one Mr T was asked to provide details of his monthly  
income and monthly  expenditure.  Ive also seen that Everyday Loans carried out a credit 
check. The information provided also indicates  that Everyday Loans was told Mr T was living 
with his parents.  
The income and expenditure information  provided  suggested Mr T had a monthly disposable 
income of £700.  Everyday  Loans  says that its credit checks didnt show  any payday  loans.  
But it has also said that its system notes indicate that a discussion took place about Mr Ts 
recent reliance on payday loans.  
Everyday Loans  also says that it requested copies of Mr Ts bank statements  although it 
hasnt provided  this in its file. Equally,  Im also unsure as to why it needed to use an estimate 
of Mr Ts living expenses  if it had his bank statements. So its unclear  what evidence 
Everyday Loans  asked for and received and what weight it placed  on the information 
gathered when considering Mr Ts application.   
I do think that there is an argument for querying  why Mr T needed to borrow £2000   to clear  
payday loans  due to two short-term lenders - and repay it over two years  if he genuinely had 
£700 in disposable income available to him. This is especially  as this disposable income 
wouldve been enough to clear one of the outstanding loans in full. But, on balance, I dont 
have enough to say that the information Everyday Loans gathered was unreasonable  - 
especially as Mr T confirmed  that he was living with his parents. 
With this in mind, although I have  concerns  about its interrogation of the information it 
received, I think Everyday Loans  just did just about complete reasonable and proportionate 
assessments before  providing loan one to Mr T. And this means that I think  the checks 
Everyday Loans  carried out for loan one were  reasonable  and proportionate. So I dont think 
that Everyday Loans  did anything wrong  when it provided this loan to Mr T.
loan two onwards
Mr T was provided with a further £1000 within six months of taking  loan one. And this meant 
that he had to borrow £3627.74 in total as £2357.74  to settle loan one (a further accident 
insurance policy for £270 was also taken). 
I have to start by saying  that I dont see how the figures Everyday Loans has provided  quite 
add up. Unless  he missed payments, which Ive not been made aware  of, Mr T wouldve 
made six payments  of £207.93 between him being provided with loan one and applying for 
loan two. Yet the amount Everyday Lending  says went towards settling loan one was higher 
than what hed borrowed in the first place. This was even  though  the payments made 
wouldve totalled more  than half the sum advanced.  
In any event, Im mindful that CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the 
proportionality of assessments. And it makes  it clear that the risk of credit  not being  
sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and the total charge  for credit 
relative to the customers financial  situation.  Everyday  Loans says it was aware  of Mr Ts 
recent reliance on payday loans before he took loan one and it also says it was aware of 
Mr Ts guarantor loan.
Ref: DRN46266659And if it had looked  at Mr Ts bank statements, which it says it obtained, it would also have 
seen that Mr T had continued  borrowing  from one of the payday lenders the funds from loan 
one was supposed to free his reliance  on. So Everyday Loans  ought to have been aware 
that Mr Ts financial  situation suggested  that hed developed a reliance on expensive credit  
and this ought to have  played a part in determining whether any further borrowing was 
sustainable.    
Yet I cant see that Everyday Loans  did do this. Indeed  it seemed  to proceed on with the 
application that Mr T had total monthly  living expenses of £1390,  despite the emerging 
pattern of Mr T wanting  or needing to borrow again.  Indeed it argues that as Mr T made the 
payments to loan one this suggested  loan two was affordable. I dont  agree  that this is the 
case. And, in any event,  Everyday Loans  was required  to assess  whether Mr T could 
sustainably repay  his loans. 
I cant see how a consumer making  payments to an earlier loan automatically means that a 
later one will be sustainable,  as without checks on how the consumer obtained the funds and 
what impact this had on their finances the lender cant  know if they suffered undue difficulty 
when repaying.  My own experience of cases has shown me that high-cost credit  borrowers  
are more likely  to do whatever it takes  to make  a loan payment  irrespective  of the impact 
that has on their finances. So I think that Everyday Loans needed to take steps to ensure 
that further credit wouldnt adversely impact Mr Ts financial position before providing loan 
two.
The circumstances werent much different at the time Mr T applied  for loan three.  This time 
Mr T was given £6000 of which £3,808.39 went towards repaying  loan two. Once again I 
have to query how the amount that went towards loan two can have been calculated  when  it 
was more than the amount borrowed and Mr T had made five payments of £309.82. 
If Everyday Loans  calculations are correct in the period  between  loan one and loan three 
having been provided Mr T wouldve  made  six payments of £207.93 and five payments of 
£309.82 yet he wouldnt have made  any inroads at all into the capital. In my view, this in 
itself bears  the hallmarks of unsustainable lending. 
Yet it doesnt appear as though Everyday Loans was applying any further scrutiny  to Mr Ts 
applications. It proceeded with this application  on the basis that Mr Ts total monthly living  
costs were the same as theyd been  for loans one and two. And for loans four and five it 
actually proceeded with these applications on the basis  that these costs  had reduced.  This 
was despite the fact that Everyday Loans  became aware that Mr T would  be using some of 
what he was borrowing for loan four to settle further payday loans. 
Everyday Loans  says it cant have been expected  to know that Mr T was reliant on payday  
loans and that Mr T said that he was making repairs to his mothers  stairs. But I dont find 
this argument  in the least bit persuasive. The payday loans Mr T was going  to repay were for 
the same  lenders the funds from loan one were supposed to repay and free his dependency 
from. As Mr T still owed those lenders money some twenty months after he took loan one, I 
think it needed to properly scrutinise  Mr Ts finances to ascertain why he still owed these 
payday lenders  money rather than simply accept whatever  verbal explanation was provided.  
What concerns me more than anything else Ive seen is that Everyday Loans provided Mr T 
with a sixth loan (which  is not part of this complaint as it Everyday Loans hadnt looked  at it) 
after this complaint was made. Mr T being provided with a sixth loan in these circumstances 
leads me to believe that Everyday Loans  checks dont evolve with a consumers borrowing 
Ref: DRN462666510history and circumstances. Instead  it appears  to me that Everyday Loans refuses to review 
and consider what is unfolding  in front of its eyes in favour of simply doing  the same  thing 
over and over again and choosing to rely on its process.
So to sum up, Im concerned  that Everyday Loans checks for Mr T on his second loan didnt 
take into account it was a second loan taken shortly  after the first. And I cant  see any signs  
that Everyday Loans  checks got more thorough for the remaining loans either even though  it 
was relending before any of the original terms had ended.
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, I dont think  that Everyday Loans  
complete reasonable or proportionate checks for any of Mr Ts loans other than for loan one. 
And this means  that I think that Everyday Loans checks before providing  Mr T with loans  
two to five were neither reasonable nor proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on loans two to five have  indicated to Everyday Loans  that Mr T 
would have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Everyday Loans that it was unfair to give these loans  to Mr T, given 
his financial circumstances at the time. Mr T has provided us with evidence of his financial 
circumstances at the time he applied for these  loans.
Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something  
shows up in the information Mr T has provided,  it doesnt mean it wouldve shown  up in any 
checks Everyday Loans mightve carried out. But in the absence  of anything else from 
Everyday Loans  showing what  steps  it took to verify the information  provided (and how it 
interpreted it), I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Ts financial circumstances  were likely to have  been  at the time. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Ts provided and Ive also thought about 
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mr T had the capacity to take 
on these loans. 
As Ive previously explained, I think Everyday Loans needed to find out just why it was Mr T 
needed to borrow  increasing amounts despite  what  he was saying about his income and 
expenditure. I think that if Everyday Loans  had done  this here, it would  more  likely than not 
have seen that Mr T was continuing to borrow from payday lenders. And it would also have 
seen that there were  significant amounts of cash withdrawals from Mr Ts account - some  
50% of his monthly income. 
Mr T says that these withdrawals went towards  gambling. And that any reasonable 
investigation into his circumstances  would have shown up that he was gambling  significant 
amounts of money.  I dont think that I have enough to make  that finding  here.  
Be that as it may, even  though I dont  have enough here to say its more  likely than not that 
Everyday Loans  ought to have realised that Mr T was gambling significant  amounts of 
money, I still think that it ought to have noticed  the cash withdrawals. And I dont think that it 
wouldve been reasonable to reach  the conclusion that Mr T could sustainably repay loans 
two to five without him providing a plausible  and persuasive reason for the large cash  
withdrawals. 
Ref: DRN462666511In any event, given  Everyday Loans response to our adjudicators  assessment where it said 
he didnt consider the checks showed the loan payments were affordable, I think that itd be 
helpful for me to explain that Everyday  Loans was required to establish whether Mr T could 
sustainably make his loan repayments   not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.  
I think this is important because irrespective of what the cash withdrawals were being  used 
for, I, in any event, dont  think  that Mr T was in a financial position to sustainably  repay  loan 
five. 
To explain, Everyday  Loans was increasing Mr Ts overall indebtedness  at a rapid rate. 
Having looked  at Everyday Loans  own records, at the time of Mr Ts first loan he owed 
£1650 to other creditors. But when Mr T was provided with loan four, some  twenty  months 
later, he now owed Everyday Loans  £16,981.20. Thats over ten times what he owed before 
he started borrowing  from Everyday Loans.
Ive already explained that by the time of loan three, Mr T had made  approaching £3,000 in 
payments. But he hadnt  made any inroads into the capital he owed. Indeed on Everyday 
Loans figures it looks like the amount that went to settling loans one and two was more  than 
what he was advanced despite all of these payments. And by the time Mr T was provided 
with loan four, hed made approaching £6500 in payments  in his 20 months  of owing 
Everyday Loans  money.  Yet the amount that went to settling loan three  was only just over 
£800 less than what hed originally been advanced.    
I accept that Mr T did receive  around  £8500 in funds  over the period concerned. But I find it 
incredible that he paid approaching £6500 in this 20 month period but now owed nearly 
£17,000  even allowing for the additional funds  he received. And bearing in mind what  
Everyday Loans  ought to have been aware  of in terms of Mr Ts financial circumstances, I 
cant see how it couldve reasonably thought  Mr T could make the payments to these loans  
on these terms without  it adversely affecting  his financial position. 
As I think  that proportionate  and reasonable checks would have shown Everyday Loans all 
of this, it follows that I think proportionate  and reasonable checks wouldve alerted it to the 
fact that Mr M wouldnt have been  able to sustainably make  the repayments  to loans two to 
five.  
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Whilst my conclusion  on loans two to five being unsustainable for Mr T is, on its own, 
enough for me to uphold the complaint, Everyday Loans made a number of arguments in 
response to our adjudicators view. As this is the case, I think  it is worth  me reflecting on 
Everyday Loans  arguments so as to give a proper sense of my thinking  in relation to them 
Ref: DRN462666512and to explain why I wouldve,  in any event, upheld the complaint about loan four, even if I 
hadnt made the findings I had in the section above.
Everyday Loans  response to our adjudicators assessment primarily centred on its belief 
that he erroneously  focused on the fact that loans two, three  and four exceeded  the total 
cost-cap for High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC) when  these loans werent HCSTC. 
I want to start by saying  that our adjudicator didnt make the finding that these loans were 
HCSTC. And I accept that the terms of the loans bring them  outside  the scope of the FCA 
definition of HCSTC. This means  that I agree that the daily and total cost caps applying to 
HCSTC products dont apply to these loans. But I want to be clear that the reason I draw this 
conclusion is because  these loans werent  short-term even though  they were clearly  high-
cost. 
And so, while the cap doesnt apply, I think that the consumer protection principles that 
underpin it are worth exploring bearing  in mind Im deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case. Im mindful  that the FCA brought  in CONC 5A because  it was 
given a statutory  duty1 to protect borrowers  from excessive  charges. Id find it somewhat 
strange for it to be the case  that Parliament felt the need to legislate to protect consumers 
from excessive charges on credit taken  over a short-term, while  also believing that such high 
charges were reasonable for credit taken over a longer period. Especially in circumstances, 
such as here for loan four, where the lender is transitioning the borrower from a product 
where the interest, fees and charges are capped to one where they arent. 
Indeed there  is an argument for saying  that transitioning Mr T from a loan where the total 
amount he could repay was capped to one which  wasnt, in itself, likely to be unfair. But for 
reasons Ill go on to explain, its possible  that existing legislation provides similar protection  
for such borrowers.
To explain, Mr T was clearly refinancing and taking further funds from Everyday  Loans.  And 
for reasons Ive already  explained earlier on in this decision, I think that it ought to have been  
clear to Everyday Loans that Mr T was struggling  to manage his finances  hence his need 
for further  funds. And, in these circumstances, I think that it would have been fair, 
reasonable and proportionate for Everyday Loans  to have recognised  this and also factor it 
in to any product  offered, when lending  to him. 
In my view, Everyday Loans  didnt do that and instead unfairly took advantage  of the 
situation by providing a series of loans, over an extended period,  which  resulted in Mr T 
paying very high rates  of interest. Indeed all but two of his loans  had an APR akin to those 
normally reserved for HCSTC products.
To be clear, had it not been the case that I think proportionate checks wouldve shown loan 
two to five to be unsustainable,  I wouldnt say it was unfair per se for Everyday Loans to 
refinance Mr Ts loans, given his apparent need  to re-borrow  - after all this mightve allowed 
him to repay what he already owed more  gradually and leave his finances with more 
breathing space. That said even though it might not have been unfair per se for Everyday 
Loans to refinance  an existing  loan,  this doesnt mean  that it was fair or reasonable for 
Everyday Loans  to provide these loans on the terms it did.
1 s131 Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013
Ref: DRN462666513I accept that this loan was provided  after the extortionate credit  bargaining provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act 19742 were replaced by the Unfair Relationship  provisions (contained 
in section 140). But the effect of this series of loans was that it created a cumulative interest 
rate so outrageous3 that I think a court may well have found  it grossly exorbitant and that the 
agreement grossly contravened  ordinary principles of fair dealing.
This is especially the case when bearing  in mind the following:
the prevailing interest rates  when the loans were  advanced on the respective 
occasions;
Mr Ts weak bargaining position, considering  his need to refinance so often and his 
reliance on HCSTC, in comparison to Everyday Loans;
Mr T being  advised to transition (for loan four) from products where  the total amount 
he repaid couldnt  exceed twice what he originally  borrowed to one where  the total 
amount to be repaid wasnt capped;
the argument here isnt that the majority of these loans werent high-cost but that they 
werent short-term;
the cumulative  effect of Mr T being  provided these loans over such  an extended 
period.
And as the Unfair  Relationship provisions were  brought in to increase consumer protection4, 
I also think its entirely possible that a court may well find that an unfair  relationship existed 
between Everyday Loans and Mr T at the time of, at least, some of these loans  bearing  in 
mind Everyday Loans history of repeat  lending to Mr T (which  the regulator has confirmed 
may, in itself, be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending) - although  I cant  say this for certain.
But, in any event, even  if this isnt the case,  Im required to decide what I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case. And I find that by the time of loan four   
Mr T was given  a loan which had an interest  rate which, on the face of things, wasnt  
commensurate to the risk Everyday Loans  was taking  in providing the funds.
As Ive previously explained, by the time loan four was provided  Everyday  Loans  had 
received around  £8,500 in funds  from Mr T. But hed already made monthly repayments of 
almost £6,500 at this stage. So this means that by the time of the fifth payment on loan four 
Everyday Loans  wouldve  received what it had advanced, in total, to Mr T. And it follows that 
the payments  from month six onwards were being made after there was no risk to Everyday 
Loans of it not getting what it originally lent back.
I think that this agreement (which required 19 out of the 24 payments to be made once 
Everyday Loans  would  already have had its money  back (in my view,  a substantial 
proportion) would,  to any ordinary observer, be seen  as unfair  given this loan was provided 
in circumstances  where Everyday Loans ought  to have been alert to the possibility Mr T was 
struggling to manage  his money and in circumstances where Mr T was being advised to 
switch from products where the total amount he had to repay was capped.
In my view, this had the effect  of unfairly  and excessively increasing and prolonging Mr Ts 
overall indebtedness. This is especially as the cumulative effect  of these loans meant  that   
2 s137-140 Consumer  Credit Act 1974
3 Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, 5.267
4 Fair, Clear and Competitive, The consumer  credit  market in the 21st century  Department for Trade 
and Industry  White Paper (2003), p 52-53 
Ref: DRN462666514Mr T was repaying loans over an extended  period at an interest  rate thats  only really 
suitable for products intended  where the credit  is intended to repaid over a short term period. 
Im particularly struck by the unfairness of the first two loans that were structured in such a 
way that, even after several months of repayments,  the settlement figure still exceeded the 
amount Mr T had borrowed in the first place.
So taking all of this into account, I think that it was unfair for Everyday  Loans  to have 
provided loans  four and five to Mr T, in these particular circumstances, irrespective of 
whether they were  sustainable. And this means  that had I not already reached the 
conclusion proportionate checks wouldve shown Everyday Loans that loans two to five were 
unsustainable for Mr T, I wouldve, in any event,  reached the conclusion that Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr T.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
seven of this decision,  I think  that Everyday Loans  unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr T 
with loans two to five. As Mr T ended up paying interest and charges on loans he shouldnt 
have been given, I think that he lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
So I think that Everyday  Loans now needs  to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Ive carefully thought  about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean Everyday 
Loans putting Mr T in the position  hed now be in if he hadnt been  given loans  two to five.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr T 
was given the loans in question and hes used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mr T back  in the position 
he would  be in if he hadnt been  given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to fully explain 
the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Everyday Loans to put things 
right in the following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr T shouldnt have  been given
As Ive explained, Everyday Loans  ought to have realised that it was providing Mr T with 
loans that hed more likely  than not be unable to substantially repay.  And in reality its the 
interest that Mr T had to pay Everyday Loans on loans two to five that is the problem, as he 
kept having to find additional  funds (usually  through  borrowing elsewhere) to pay the interest 
on his Everyday Loans loan. 
Im also mindful Mr T then took out further  loans which resulted in him having to borrow more 
to repay  previous loans. So I think that the fairest way to ensure that Mr T is refunded any 
interest and charges that he may have paid is to add the total amount of money he received 
as a result  of being provided loans two to five together.  Everyday Loans  should then deduct 
any payments Mr T made from this amount. 
Ref: DRN462666515Everyday Loans  should treat any payments made  after the payments Mr T made reached 
the total of the money he received, if there were any, as overpayments. And to start with, 
I think that Everyday Loans  should  refund any such  overpayments as they will represent the 
interest Mr T unfairly paid as a result of being  given his loans.
Its also clear  to see that Mr T lost the use of the funds he used to pay the interest (or 
overpayments), I now think that Everyday Loans  needs to refund to him. As Mr T lost the use 
of these funds, I think that he should be compensated  for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid 
(in other words any overpayments over and above  the amount of money Mr T received if 
there were any), is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Mr Ts credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.  
As the monetary award Im making reflects this, I see no reason to depart from our typical  
approach in this case. So I think that Everyday Loans should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a result of the interest and charges on loans  
three and four. 
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of        
Mr Ts complaint for Everyday Loans to put things right in the following way:
add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result  of having been given 
loans two to five. The payments Mr T made (to his loans) should be deducted from 
this amount. Any payments made,  if any, after the total amount  repaid exceeds the 
amount of money Mr T was given should be treated  as overpayments;
refund  the premium  Mr T paid for the ancillary accident insurance  he was sold when 
Everyday Loans provided loan two; 
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments and the ancillary accident 
insurance from the date they were paid by Mr T, if they were,  to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ts credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans  must  give Mr T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN462666516For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans) should pay Mr T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626665