K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BofS) mis-sold them  a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs F took out a loan for home improvements and the bank recommended  
that they also take out PPI in Mr Fs name  to protect  their repayments. 
Mr and Mrs F say the PPI was unsuitable  it didnt offer good value for money. They think it 
was wrong of the bank to have sold them the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
Mr and Mrs F say they werent told about  the PPI and didnt know they had it. In support of 
this Mr F says he was out of work  for about six months  in 2000  and would have claimed if 
hed known about the PPI.
There isnt much original paperwork from the time the loan was taken out and the PPI sold.  
Thats not unexpected given it was repaid  about 18 years ago. But it does mean Ive had to 
rely on the information we do have and also what we know  about  hoe BofS sold policies like 
this at the time.
Theres no credit agreement  to check. But, having  looked at a lot of PPI sales  like this one, 
Im satisfied BofS would  have made  Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional  and 
they chose to buy it. I do understand why they no longer recall this.
The bank says it recommended  Mr and Mrs F take out the policy, which means  it needed to 
make sure it was suitable for them. It doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable  based  on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
-Mr F, who was the person covered by the PPI, was eligible for the policy given  his 
circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. Mrs F wasnt eligible and not covered.
-The policy was one charged for on a monthly  basis. It didnt attract  any extra  interest. 
Even though theres no original paperwork its likely Mr and Mrs F knew  what they going  
to pay for the policy  or at least that it cost something each month. Given  their 
circumstances, I dont  think  the policy was unaffordable. 
Ref: DRN42378582-It doesnt appear that Mr F would have been  affected by any of the significant limitations 
or exclusions of the cover; such as those  relating to pre-existing medical conditions. 
-Mr and Mrs F say Mr F wouldnt  have  received  any work-related benefits if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident and they had no savings. Mrs F worked part time 
and didnt get work-related benefits  either.  So Mr and Mrs F would likely have had some 
difficulty paying for the loan if they didnt  have PPI in place and, given this, I think they 
would have had some use for the policy.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr F was not affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think 
Mr and Mrs F would  still have taken out the policy. 
Mr F told us hed have claimed on the policy in 2000 if hed known about it. BofS has sent us 
evidence that shows he did make a successful claim  although  this was in 2001, not 2000. 
So he and Mrs F must  have known they had the policy by that point. Its possible Mr and Mrs 
F could make a retrospective  claim for 2000, but theyll  need  to contact the insurer  
responsible for the policy in 2000  if they want to take that forward.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4237858