K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining about Canada Life Limited because  it declined a claim on his critical 
illness insurance.
background
Mr C is a member  of a group critical illness scheme  arranged by his employer.  Sadly, he was 
recently diagnosed with cardiomyopathy. But Canada Life didnt  pay a claim on the policy 
because it said the relevant  requirements hadnt been  met.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt Canada  Life had 
obtained evidence  from the appropriate  medical  professionals, including his GP and original 
cardiologist, Dr W, and didnt think this showed  his condition met the criteria required  by the 
policy for a successful claim.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for his case to be reviewed. 
Hes previously said that he thinks Canada  Life should have approached  another consultant 
he was referred to, Dr B.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Cs health problems and I realise hes 
been going through a difficult time.
The policy wasnt designed  to pay out on all diagnoses of cardiomyopathy. For Mr Cs claim 
to be payable, the following policy definition would need to be met:
Cardiomyopathy - of specified severity
A definite diagnosis  by a Consultant Cardiologist  of cardiomyopathy resulting  in 
permanently impaired ventricular function  such that the ejection  fraction  is 40% or 
less for at least six months when stabilised on therapy advised by the Consultant.
The diagnosis must also be evidenced by;
electrocardiographic changes, and
echocardiographic abnormalities.
The evidence must be consistent with the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy.
Note: For the above definition, the following are not covered:
all other forms  of heart disease and/or heart enlargement
myocarditis, and
cardiomyopathy related to alcohol or drug abuse.
Mr C submitted a completed  claim form in January 2018. One of the key requirements of the 
policy definition is that the ejection  fraction  of his heart must have been at 40% or less for at 
Ref: DRN49115392least six months. Canada Life wrote to Mr Cs GP and cardiologist about this. His GP said it 
hadnt fallen below the 40% level mentioned in the policy. And Dr W wrote  on 7 February  
2018 that: 
. . . the function of your heart was good with the left ventricular ejection  fraction  
estimated at 70-75%  with preserved  right ventricular systolic function and no valve 
abnormalities detected.
Based on this information, I think Canada Life was entitled to believe Mr Cs ejection  fraction  
hadnt fallen below the 40% level and decline his claim. Which it did in March 2018.
I note Mr C was referred to another consultant, Dr B, but according to his claim form he was 
still waiting to see him in January 2018.  So even if the condition of his heart had 
deteriorated, with the ejection fraction falling below  40% and Dr B being  able to confirm this, 
at the time Canada  Life assessed the claim,  it couldnt possibly have  been  established that 
had been the case for a period of six months. So I dont  agree there  was any benefit in 
writing to Dr B at that time.
Providing he remains a member of the scheme,  Mr C will be able to make another claim in 
the future.  If he were to make a future claim,  Canada Life would be expected  to contact the 
medical professionals involved  in his treatment at that time. If their reports  show  his health 
has deteriorated to the point where the policy  requirements  have been  met, it would then be 
expected to pay out.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr C and isnt what  he was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  the medical evidence showed  
he met the requirements  for a payment  when  his claim was assessed. So Im satisfied  
Canada Life was entitled to decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4911539