K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont  refund to him 
the money that he paid for some  electric heaters. Hes being helped with his complaint by his 
local Trading Standards office.
background
Mr L signed an order form in January  2018 for five electric heaters to be supplied to him at a 
cost of £7,700.  He used his Tesco Bank credit card to pay a deposit of £1,925  and he paid 
the balance by cheque.  The heaters  were  installed about five weeks  later. Mr L wasnt  happy  
with the heaters and asked the supplier to remove them and refund the money  that hed paid 
for them. He then contacted Tesco Bank  in March 2018 and said that he hadnt been 
provided with the correct  cancellation period which was a breach of contract. And he gave it 
notice that he was cancelling the contract  and claimed a refund under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  But he wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She didnt consider that 
the heaters were  personalised or made to the consumers specifications so she said that 
Mr L had the right to cancel the order after the goods were delivered  to him. And she said 
that Tesco Bank should refund the full price of the heaters to Mr L but that the heaters  
should be returned by him. She said that it would be fair that Mr L bears the installation  cost 
and she said that it would  be reasonable for Tesco  Bank  to deduct £50 as an installation 
cost from the refund.
Tesco Bank has said that it doesnt  agree with the investigators recommendation and that it 
would be sending a response.  But it hasnt done  so and this complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ls complaint about Tesco  Bank, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the heaters and that Tesco Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable.  Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ls claim under  section  75 as only 
a court  would be able to do that.
The order  form says that: all orders are either personalised  or made to a consumer 
specification and therefore classed as a bespoke product; and: "your  14 day cancellation  
period starts the day after you receive  this notice in writing.
But Ive seen nothing  to show that the heaters were personalised for Mr L or that they were 
made to his specification.  The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional  
Charges) Regulations  2013 say that the normal cancellation period for off-premises 
contracts between a trader and a consumer ends 14 days after the goods  come into the 
physical possession of the consumer. So I consider that Mr L shouldve been told that he 
Ref: DRN48456022had the right to cancel  the order within 14 days of the heaters coming into his physical 
possession. 
Those regulations  also say that if the trader doesnt  provide the consumer with the required 
information on the right to cancel, the cancellation  period ends 12 months after the day on 
which the normal cancellation period wouldve ended. Ive seen no evidence  to show  that 
Mr L has been given  the required information  on his right to cancel his order so the 
cancelation period ends  12 months and 14 days after the goods came  into his physical 
possession. 
Mr L has provided copies  of his correspondence  with the supplier in early March  2018 in 
which he asked it to remove the heaters and refund his money - but it hasnt done so. And 
later that month he contacted Tesco Bank and asked it to accept his letter  as confirmation  of 
his cancellation  of the contract under section 75.
I consider that Mr L wasnt  given  notice of the correct  cancelation  terms (and that he still 
hasnt received them).  He contacted  the supplier to cancel his order but it didnt accept that 
he had the right to cancel  his order. I consider it to be more likely than not that that was a 
breach of contract by the supplier for which Tesco Bank would be jointly liable under section 
75. So I dont  consider  that Tesco Banks response  to Mr Ls complaint has been  fair or 
reasonable.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tesco Bank  to arrange 
for the heaters to be collected from Mr L (making good any damage  that has been caused by 
their installation or removal) and to refund to him the money that he paid for the heaters  
but after deducting a reasonable charge for the cost of installing the heaters. I agree with the 
investigator that £50 would  be a fair and reasonable charge for that. So I consider that Tesco 
Bank should pay £7,650 to Mr L (with interest).  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. And I order  Tesco Personal 
Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, to:
1.Arrange for the heaters to be collected from Mr L and for any damage caused by the 
installation or removal  to be made good (all at no cost to him).
2.Pay £7,650  to Mr L.
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Tesco Bank  to deduct  tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 3 above. Tesco Bank  must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4845602