K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains,  with the help of his independent financial adviser (IFA),  that Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited provided  the wrong information to him about tax payable  on 
withdrawals from his policy so that he was overpaid an is unhappy it now seeks  recovery  of 
part of the overpayment.
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
accepted that because  Aviva had got things wrong  Mr W had received  £1631.66 tat he 
wasnt entitled to because it had miscalculated  the tax payable by him. But the investigator 
thought it had dealt with matters fairly  by waiving repayment of £1,000 of the money due.
Mr Ws IFA didnt  agree  with the investigator  and set out a chronology of the issues  that had 
arisen with regard to Mr Ws dealings with Aviva  from February  2018  through  to April 2019. 
The IFA said Mr W was still awaiting a breakdown of the net amount of each payment, the 
tax paid and the amount reported to HMRC and had no confidence  in the figures  provided  by 
Aviva were  correct and thought it was unfair Aviva were chasing  him for money given the 
stress and inconvenience caused.
As agreement hasnt been  reached the matter has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it important to make clear that the only issue I am considering in this complaint  relates  
to the miscalculation  of the money payable to Mr W in February  2018  and whether Aviva  
should waive the total amount of £1,631.66  that was overpaid to him. 
In its response to the investigators opinion the IFA set out the various issues that Mr W has 
had with Aviva. But it was the IFA who asked for Aviva to treat the complaint relating to the 
payment of the £1,631.66  separately to other issues that had been raised. And the complaint 
form completed by the IFA on referral  to our service  also just related to that money.
Turning to what went wrong, Mr W received  regular  monthly payments from Aviva and in 
February 2018 it paid him £3,423.66 instead  of his usual monthly payment of £2000  less tax 
of £208. This was on the basis he had overpaid  tax and was due a refund  which  is what  it 
told him.
But the figures calculated by Aviva  were wrong and no repayment of tax was due. Instead an 
amount of £1,631.66 was payable for tax. 
Aviva has agreed to be responsible for £1,000  of this sum but expects Mr W to pay the 
balance of £631.66 and the only issue I have to decide is whether it is reasonable to expect 
Mr W to have to pay this. 
I acknowledge that the mistake  made  by Aviva  is likely to have been frustrating for Mr W and 
no doubt has caused some distress  and inconvenience. I note the IFA has said that he had 
plans for the money he thought was due to him. 
Ref: DRN41226232But he was never  entitled to that money and I dont think  it is reasonable for him to expect 
that he should have the benefit of any part of it. What  Aviva are responsible for is having 
raised his expectations  that this money  was his when it wasnt. An award for distress  and 
inconvenience caused by this is clearly  appropriate  but I wouldnt award anything near to the 
£1,000 Aviva has already accepted it will waive repayment of. This is money he was never 
entitled to and is significantly higher than any award I might make for distress and 
inconvenience. It isnt reasonable  or proportionate to expect Aviva  to waive  the balance  of 
£631.66.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4122623