K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Ms S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms S says she doesnt remember PPI being  mentioned when she took out the credit  
card. Lloyds has given  me a copy of the signed  credit agreement from the time of the 
sale. This had a section titled optional features that included  PPI as one of the options. I 
can see Ms S ticked the box next to PPI to agree to buy the policy. And in my opinion I 
think it was clear  she couldve left the box blank if she didnt want  it. So I think  Lloyds 
made it clear that Ms S didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Ms S had three months of sick pay and some savings available  to her. But the policy  
couldve covered  her for up to 12 months  per claim if she was too ill to work, had an 
accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in addition to her sick pay. It 
also looks like the policy was affordable. So I dont think  better information about  the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ms S said she couldve claimed when  she was unable to work  for five months, but didnt.  
If Ms S was still covered by the PPI at that point and was eligible to claim, then she may 
now be able to make a back-dated claim.  If shed  like to do that, she should get back  in 
touch with Lloyds.  And if Ms S has any issues making the back-dated  claim,  she may 
then be able to bring  that to our service  as a separate complaint if she needs our help.
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms S, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN48359842To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms S any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4835984