K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about his home emergency  policy administered by BIG Warranties Ltd.
background
In December 2017, Mr G took out home  emergency  cover. In or around August 2018, the 
administrator of the policy changed  to BIG Warranties  Ltd, under a different trading name of 
Row Ltd. 
Mr G says that he received some  emails from Row around that time and his bank  also told 
him that Row had tried to set up a direct  debit on his account. Mr G says he did not know  
that the administrator of his policy had changed,  as none of the emails  stated  this. As
he didnt know anything  about Row or why it would  be setting up a direct  debit on his bank  
account, he refused  this. Mr G says he was also conscious of the possibility of fraud and so 
he did not think it would be safe to click on the links in Rows emails to him, as he didnt 
know anything about the company. 
As a result of this, BIG Warranties  was not able to take the September 2018 payment for the 
policy and it cancelled his policy.  
In October  2018, Mr Gs boiler  broke  down  and so he contacted his insurer. He then 
discovered that the policy had been  cancelled. BIG Warranties agreed  to send an engineer 
out to attend,  while  it looked into the policy further.  After the engineer  had attended, Row 
advised that the policy was cancelled and it would not pay the cost of the repairs.  Row says 
that not only did it email  Mr G several times  about  the change  of administration but the 
previous administrator would have contacted him as well. 
Mr G is very unhappy with this. He was charged  a call out fee by BIG Warrantiess  engineer 
and had to pay privately  for the repair of his boiler.  I understand the total cost was £467.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He considered the various emails sent to   
Mr G and concluded that they were  not clear  that Row was now the administrator of Mr Gs 
home emergency policy. The investigator  thought the emails were generic and as they didnt 
mention the insurer,  the specific policy or the previous administrator, he could understand 
why Mr G didnt think he needed  to act on them and didnt think he should  provide his bank 
details to a company he did not know or for an unnamed  policy.  
The investigator recommended  that BIG Warranties should: waive the £90 call out fee it 
charged for the engineer  it arranged; refund Mr Gs costs in repairing the fault to his boiler, 
upon receipt of the invoice, together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and pay £100 compensation. The investigator  also recommended that it 
confirm the cancellation of the policy has not been recorded anywhere.  If it has been 
recorded, then remove the cancellation and send a letter to confirm  its removal.
BIG Warranties says that it is nt possible to reinstate a policy after this length  of time, but    Mr 
G could apply for a new policy.  While some of its communications  could have  been  clearer, 
this is not entirely  its responsibility. The underwriter of Mr Gs policy apparently sent letters to 
all its customers  in July 2018  advising that the policy would be administered  by Row from 1 
September 2018. It has not received the premiums  for the policy. While Mr G might  have 
been reluctant  to click on a link, he could have telephoned and its Financial Conduct  
Authority number was on the emails.  If the previous broker had not continued  to take 
Ref: DRN43672482premium payments, Mr G would have realised  the problem sooner and this might not have 
happened. It cant be held responsible for the other broker continuing to take payments 
when it shouldnt have.  
As the investigator  has not been  able to resolve  the complaint,  it has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Row took over on 21 August  2018  and sent a welcome  email.  It also set up its 
own direct  debit instruction on Mr Gs account shortly  after this but he cancelled this as he 
thought he had not authorised it. On 9 September 2018 the policy  was cancelled  for non-
payment of premium. 
I have considered the communications  from Row to Mr G. The welcome email was sent on 
22nd August 2018, it said: 
Dear  Mr  
Thanks for choosing Row you have made (the right choice!) A summary  of your policy / is 
below 
Policy Reference 
Start Date 27/09/2018
Amount 11.36
Frequency Monthly
Payment Type Direct Debit
Username: @aol  co uk
Row is part of BIG Warranties,  who provide a wide range of household warranty  products 
and protects thousands  of customers from expensive  mishaps.  As a BIG Warranties 
customer, you gain access  to an online control  panel so you can manage your insurance  
products with us. You can view and download your policy documents, terms and conditions, 
key facts about our insurance and get help 24 hours  a day.
Activate your online account  now by clicking  HERE within 5 days.
Mr G says he did not receive the communication from the underwriter about Row taking over 
the administration of the policy and so out of any context,  the above  email was not clear 
enough to tell him that it was now administering the policy on his underwriters instruction, or 
that another  direct debit would be set up against his account and why. I tend to agree with 
him.
Another email was sent on 25th August:
Policy Information - Failed Payment
From Row Customer Services
  We were instructed to process your payment on 27/09/2018 however there is an issue  
with your Direct Debit instruction. You urgently  need  to correct this so you can remain 
covered as you are currently not insured.
The date in the email for the missed  payment is incorrect  and I do not consider that this 
makes the situation  any clearer  to Mr G. Further emails were  sent on 27 August and 
Ref: DRN436724832 September 2018, both of which were  fairly  similar  and asked Mr G to contact Row urgently 
regarding a failed  payment. 
Then on 9 September 2018  the following email was sent: 
policy Information - Failed Payment
Dear Mr G
We have tried to contact you regarding the failure in payment for your mobile phone  
insurance. Unfortunately since  we have not heard from you we have had to cancel your 
agreement.
The only reference  to a specific type of policy is in this latest email. 
I am not persuaded that these communications were clear  enough  to inform Mr G why he 
was receiving them and why a new direct debit  instruction had been sent to his bank. I can 
see why Mr G was reluctant to click on any of the links in the emails or to contact  Row in any 
other way. Given that Mr G checked that the previous direct debit instruction for this policy  
was still in place  and Rows cancellation  email of 9 September 2018 erroneously  referring  to 
mobile phone insurance  instead of home emergency insurance, I can see why Mr G did not 
consider that he needed to act on these  communications. 
In addition, there was only one months missed payment,  there was nothing  else to indicate 
that the policy had been cancelled and it appears  that Mr G was not separately informed of 
this by the insurer. I have  no reason to think that Mr G intended  to cancel this policy. It 
seems to me more  likely than not that he intended the policy  to continue and would have 
done so, if the confusion  around the takeover  of administration of the policy  had not 
occurred. Therefore, I consider it fair and reasonable for his claim to be treated  as if the 
policy had not been cancelled. 
BIG Warranties insists that it is not solely responsible for what happened  and says that the 
underwriter and the previous administrators are also responsible.  Other organisations may 
have played a part but this complaint  is against  BIG Warranties and it was BIG Warranties 
communications that were insufficiently clear  and it was it that cancelled  the policy. It could 
also have arranged reinstatement of the policy when Mr G first contacted it about the claim. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  assessment, that BIG Warranties should step into 
the shoes of the underwriter to effectively meet the claim, save for one small change in that 
the premiums will need  to be brought up to date.  Mr G will therefore have to pay the 
September 2018 premium (BIG Warranties can deduct this from the payment due to him). I 
assume that Mr G has made  alternative  arrangements for cover  in the meantime, given  how 
long ago this was but I would also direct that BIG Warranties contact the underwriter to 
ensure there is no adverse record of cancellation of the policy.  
I also agree  that some  additional compensation is warranted and that the sum of £100 is 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr G by this matter,  including 
having to arrange his own contractor  when he had taken out the policy specifically to avoid 
having to do so in the event of something going  wrong with his central heating.  
Ref: DRN43672484my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require BIG Warranties Ltd to: 
waive the £90 call out fee charged for the engineer it arranged;
reimburse Mr Gs costs in repairing the fault to his boiler, upon receipt of the
invoice, together  with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement, less one months premium; and
pay Mr G £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this 
has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4367248