K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a low cost endowment  policy by The Royal  
London Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  (the business).  
background
In November 1989, Mrs and Mr M were advised to take out an endowment policy,  with an 
initial £12,870 sum assured, and £50 monthly premium. The sum assured plus bonuses 
would become payable on survival of the lives assured at the end of the 25 year term.  The 
guaranteed death benefit  up to the point  of maturity was £30,000.
In November 2014, the policy matured  with a value of £27,784.  Mrs and Mr M say they were  
advised the policy would mature with a value of £88,000, and provided evidence of a written 
note to this effect.  
The business upheld  the complaint. It said the policy wasnt  the most suitable  investment for 
Mrs and Mr M. It also accepted that they had suffered  a financial loss and offered £451 
compensation as settlement. However, it didnt accept the handwritten  note as evidence  of 
an official illustration.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
The business calculated redress  based on the returns Mrs and Mr M would have 
received if they had placed their money into a bank account matching the 
Bank of England  base rate plus 1% - because  their policy  was taken out before 1996.  
The business compared this to the actual return and the difference  was £364,  plus 
8% simple interest  to come to the figure  of £451.  
The business offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs and Mr M say, Im persuaded 
that the business offer of redress is fair and reasonable. 
I note the business says that theres  no evidence that the policy was 
recommended/assigned for mortgage  purposes, and Mrs M maintains that they had another 
endowment policy for the mortgage.  So Im unable to safely conclude that Mrs and Mr M had 
a need for the policy. 
Ref: DRN49023352I also note that Mrs M says they had wanted a long term investment to help in their 
investment. So, its possible thats  what they mistakenly thought they were getting.  
In the circumstances, and given that the date of the investment is pre-1996,  I dont think 
redress based on a comparison  between the actual performance of their policy  and the BoE 
base rate +1, plus 8% simple interest is unfair  or unreasonable. 
Im satisfied that its close to the position  they would have been had they not been  advised to 
take out the policy.    
Im mindful of the points made by Mrs and Mr M about the written note. But despite  what  
they say, Im unable  to say that they should receive  the difference  between the value they 
received and the £88,000  because they were unlikely to receive  that amount, and because 
the recommendation wasnt suitable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4902335