K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited acted unfairly  when 
threatening repossession proceedings. They want a fair redemption  figure  to end the 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage  with Kensington and got into arrears. Kensington got a 
possession order from a court. Mr and Mrs G felt that it had ignored their explanation  for the 
arrears and their arguments. They said that they felt bullied into higher payments and 
intimidated by Kensington, amounts were wrongly  added to the debt, and were told that they 
couldnt repay the mortgage in full without paying the interest  due for the whole term. They 
also complained  that Kensington breached confidentiality by sending their solicitor  a 
redemption statement and details of the possession order  via its own solicitors  (who were 
dealing with the possession proceedings). 
Mr and Mrs G complained  to Kensington. It said that Mr and Mrs G had failed to make 
payments as agreed and got a warrant for possession. It then paused the proceedings in 
order to respond to the complaint. Kensington said it didnt breach confidentiality by sending 
information to Mr and Mrs Gs solicitors  via its own solicitors as legal proceedings were 
underway. It didnt respond  to the rest of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that Kensington hadnt acted 
unfairly in issuing possession proceedings as Mr and Mrs G were in arrears; he said the 
arrears had increased considerably over time. He noted that the court  decided  to grant a 
possession order and this service couldnt go behind  such  an order. The adjudicator  found  
no evidence that amounts  were wrongly added  to the debt or that Kensington had said 
Mr and Mrs G had to pay all the future interest to repay the mortgage in full  the redemption 
statement didnt say this. He also didnt think it was a breach of confidentiality to give 
information to Mr and Mrs Gs solicitors  when a redemption statement had been requested 
and legal action  was underway  as legal costs affected the amount required to repay in full.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed.  They said Kensington hadnt treated them fairly and the amount  
required to repay the mortgage was too much.  Mr and Mrs G also commented  on how long 
the complaints  process took.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints handling  isnt an activity  
regulated by this service,  so I wont deal with this point, though I will look at whether 
Kensington has generally treated Mr and Mrs G fairly when theyre in financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN43938942Having considered all the evidence available to me, I dont think Kensington bullied 
Mr and Mrs G. They  are in arrears  (despite  being required to pay their mortgage  in full and 
on time), a possession order has been  given by a court and it was suspended on the basis  
that an agreed repayment plan was reached. Mr and Mrs G then failed to comply with the 
repayment plan and arrears increased.  In all the circumstances, I cant  say that its unfair for 
Kensington to seek to take legal action,  particularly as the contact notes  show it assessed 
Mr and Mrs Gs ability to repay. The order was granted by a court and I cant go behind that 
order. It also isnt unfair  for a lender to point out that if the terms of a suspended possession 
order arent followed by a consumer, the lender can ask the court to evict,  though  I 
appreciate that this isnt a pleasant message to hear.
I can find no evidence that Kensington wrongly  added amounts to the debt, though  this 
service isnt an auditing  service, or that it asked Mr and Mrs G to pay future  interest. The 
redemption statement shows Kensington didnt ask for future interest to be paid.
I also dont think that there was a breach of confidentiality when Kensington via its solicitors 
gave information  to Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor when a redemption statement was required. The 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  allow legal costs to be added  so the existence of the 
legal proceedings had to be revealed. And once solicitors are involved, it isnt unfair  for a 
lender to require  its solicitors to deal with a consumers  solicitors.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my 
decision before  9 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4393894