K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
S.A. (Mapfre) mislead him about the cover he had under  his travel insurance policy.  My 
references to Mapfre  include its agents.
background
Mr G and his wife had travel insurance,  insured  by Mapfre, for several years.
In 2017 Mr G contacted  Mapfre  to renew  the insurance. On receiving the policy certificate he 
noted it said no medical conditions. He phoned  Mapfre who told him he had no medical 
cover as he had chosen the Budget  cover  for 2017. Mr G cancelled the policy  and as the 
cancellation was in the first 14 days of the policy Mapfre gave a full refund for that policy.
Mr G complains that Mapfre  misled him into thinking he and his wife had medical cover over 
the years  he had its insurance.  He wants the premiums refunded  from his previous policies 
as he believes hes been paying for medical cover  which didnt exist.
Mapfre wouldnt refund  the other premiums. It said Mr G had medical cover under  every 
policy before  the renewal  in 2017 but the cover  hadnt included pre-existing medical 
conditions or conditions that Mr G chose  not to cover for himself and his wife. It said the 
various policy renewal calls showed  Mr G was fully aware of the medical  cover  being 
provided. 
Our investigator listened to some policy renewal calls. He thought  Mapfre had acted  fairly  in 
not refunding  the other premiums.
Mr G disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Mapfre has told us that under  the previous policies Mr G and his wife did have medical cover 
but they werent covered  for any claim relating to their medical  conditions  that were pre-
existing or excluded.
So importantly its not the case that Mr G and his wife had no medical cover at all under the 
previous policies. 
Ive listened to the policy renewal calls between  Mapfre and Mr G for 2015 and 2016. Mr G 
said he wanted the policy to renew  as before. They discussed that previously  some  medical 
conditions hadnt  been covered. Medical  screening was completed  and Mr G was given 
quotes for the different  levels of cover Mapfre could offer including quotes for cover  for 
specific pre-existing medical  conditions.  Mr G chose  to proceed without cover for specific 
pre-existing medical conditions. Mapfre clearly told Mr G that meant there  was no cover for 
those medical conditions.
Ref: DRN44886792I dont think Mr G could reasonably believe from those conversations  that he had medical 
cover which included cover for his and his wifes medical conditions  that hed told Mapfre 
about and chosen not to cover.
From the evidence Ive seen the policies Mr G had before  2017  were Silver cover. Ive not 
seen the relevant policy documents  but its highly likely  that the policies also didnt cover  any 
pre-existing medical conditions Mr G hadnt told Mapfre about. No cover in those 
circumstances is standard  in travel insurance  policies.
Mapfre acted fairly  and reasonably in not refunding  the premiums for the policies before 
2017. Mr G and his wife did have the medical  cover  that Ive described above. Ive no 
evidence that Mapfre mis-lead Mr G into thinking  that he and his wife had medical cover for 
the medical conditions he had declared  and chosen  not to cover.
In 2017 Mapfre  sold Mr G Budget cover which it told Mr G in a subsequent call gave  no 
medical cover. Mr G hasnt complained that the 2017 was mis-sold  to him. He can make a 
separate complaint about that matter if he wants to. But its fair for me to tell him that even if 
we thought the 2017 policy had been  mis-sold,  unless he incurred medical costs due to a 
mis-sale, the remedy would be for the 2017 premium to be returned to him. Hes already had 
the premium refunded.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4488679