K821x#15complaint
Ms L complained to Wesleyan Assurance  Society that it mis-sold her a free-standing  
additional contribution (FSAVC) plan.  Wesleyan  upheld  the complaint on the basis  that Ms L 
wouldve contributed  to her employers in house added years  AVC facility, rather  than the 
FSAVC plan if it had given her adequate information. 
Ms L thinks Wesleyan has used an inappropriate method when  calculating  the redress due 
to her.  
background
In 1995 Ms L was advised by Wesleyan  to begin  contributing 2% of her salary to an FSAVC  
policy. 
In December 2008, following discussions with an acquaintance, Ms L stopped the FSAVC 
contributions and began contributing 9% of her salary to her employers  in house added  
years facility. The added  years contributions purchased an additional three  years  and 203 
days service in her employers main scheme.
Ms L complained to Wesleyan about  the advice she was given in 1995. The complaint was 
upheld and Wesleyan  instructed a firm of actuaries to calculate the lost added  years that 
couldve been purchased had the FSAVC contributions been  made  to her employers added 
years scheme instead. The loss was calculated as one year and 110 days, which after 
calculations had been completed, led to an offer of £36,127.22 being made to Ms L. 
Ms Ls representative challenged the calculation on the basis  it had not taken account  of the 
under-contribution from the maximum 9% to the actual  2%. And that the figure did not 
include the value  of the benefits Ms L would have accrued if she had paid the maximum 9% 
to the added years  facility from 1995.
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  but didnt think it should  be upheld.  
He said:
To include  the missed maximum contributions in the calculation would be to take a 
similar approach to how the industry  wide pension  review  dealt with non-joiners. 
However, in Ms Ls case he didnt  consider  that was appropriate. 
A non-joiner would not normally know they should be in the main scheme. Whereas 
Ms L knew she shouldve  been making  the maximum contribution of 9% of her salary  
and also knew she was only contributing 2% to an FSAVC  scheme. Therefore, she 
had some responsibility regarding the shortfall  in contributions she was making.
The method  used by Wesleyan was fair and reasonable to calculate Ms Ls losses.
Ms L didnt  agree and so the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Im in agreement 
with the adjudicator and for largely  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN49534642Both Wesleyan and Ms L have agreed that had she been given adequate information, Ms L 
wouldve bought  added  years in her employers OPS instead  of taking the FSAVC. So I dont  
need to review the sale of the plan.  However, Ms L disagrees with the method  Wesleyan  has 
proposed for putting things right. So thats what I need to decide. 
Ms Ls representative proposed that Wesleyan  should compensate Ms L for her losses  from 
not having contributed the maximum 9% to her in house added years  facility since 1995. 
That method  is similar  to the approach taken by the regulator, in the industry wide pension 
review for non-joiners. I consider the non-joiner  approach is suitable where the individual 
was not aware  that they should have been  in the employers main scheme.
In Ms Ls case, it is clear she was aware that she should be in the employers main  scheme  
for added  years and that she knew she could be contributing a maximum of 9% of her 
salary. The advisers file note, following a meeting of 31 May 1995,  confirmed he had 
suggested the maximum contribution of 9%, split 50-50  between  an FSAVC  and the added  
years facility, and that Ms L and her husband  were happy with that suggestion.
However, what is unclear  is why the adviser only proceeded  with an application  of 2% of 
Ms Ls salary into an FSAVC. It is over 20 years since that meeting so, I cant  be sure 
exactly what was discussed.  
The evidence from 1995 indicated there  may have been an issue of affordability. The 
advisers file note also confirmed Ms L and her husband were very interested  in other 
savings such as PEPs, but that Ms Ls husband was a student  with no income  and they were 
about to embark  on a major new expense with a new property. It was agreed to delay further 
decisions until their finances had settled down.
The adviser also stated  in the suitability  letter of August 1995 At this time the purchase of 
your house  and associated expenses will be behind you, and the amount of money available 
for pension  provision and saving will be clearer to you.
From the contemporaneous evidence I consider it likely that in 1995 affordability was an 
issue that prevented  Ms L from contributing the maximum 9% of her salary.  It is also clear 
she knew about the added years option and that she could be contributing  significantly 
more than the 2% being saved into the FSAVC.
Ms Ls position was further reviewed in 1998 during a meeting with Wesleyan. The 
paperwork from this time indicates the in-house options available to Ms L were discussed  
and again, she was made aware  of the maximum she could invest. But she opted to 
maintain her FSAVC contributions at the same rate. I think  its also important to explain that 
Wesleyan couldnt  arrange for Ms L to join her employers in-house option; this was 
something she would need to arrange  herself. Therefore, I dont consider it would be 
appropriate for Wesleyan  to compensate  Ms L on the basis  of having made maximum 
contributions since  1995,  when it was clear that she had been advised  to make additional 
contributions to the in-house arrangement but she failed to follow this up. 
Wesleyan has upheld  the complaint on the basis that it failed to provide adequate  
information to Ms L at the point of sale regarding the risks of the FSAVC plan. Had it done 
so, it considers she wouldve bought added years instead. On this basis,  I consider the 
actuaries, on behalf of Wesleyan, have used the appropriate method of calculating redress  
and so its offer is fair.  
Ref: DRN49534643My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Wesleyan  Assurance  Society  to 
pay the redress as set out in its offer letter dated 2 June 2017. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020. 
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4953464