K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that Sainsburys Bank  Plc (the bank) has wrongly refused her claim 
under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
background
Mrs B says she had no choice but to use her Sainsbury credit  card to pay around £4,000 to 
a company that claimed to be collecting, from her husband, the debt of a company  of which  
her husband  had once been a director. She says representatives of the debt-collecting 
company attended  at her home and said theyd remove possessions of hers if she didnt pay 
the debt.
Mrs B says there was no debt due from her or her husband. She also says an alleged  court  
writ regarding the debt is a forgery. 
The basis  of Mrs Bs section 75 claim against the bank  is that there was an unwritten 
contract between the debt-collecting company and her, in relation to which the company  
committed a breach and misrepresentation. 
The bank declined  Mrs Bs claim.  They did so because (a) they didnt think  there was 
evidence of a contract  of the sort claimed by Mrs B and (b) they didnt think the credit card 
payment was for Mrs Bs benefit,  so section 75 didnt apply.
Mrs B didnt accept the banks conclusions, so she came to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He concluded the bank had acted 
reasonably in refusing Mrs Bs section 75 claim. 
Mrs B didnt accept this conclusion. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I too 
have decided her complaint  doesnt succeed. 
Applying first principles, for there  to be any section 75 claim there  has to be (a) a contract for 
the supply of goods or services and also (b) a qualifying debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. 
There was neither in this case. 
There was no contract,  on the facts as described  by Mrs B. The people  from the debt-
collecting company  who attended her home  demanded and acquired  money  by menaces 
and intimidation,  in regard to a debt they knew  didnt  exist.  They  were also unlawfully 
threatening to seize goods belonging to Mrs B when she wasnt  the person who owed the 
debt they were collecting. This isnt a lawful binding contract for the supply of services, its a 
serious criminal offence. A binding  contract  couldnt  come into existence when its brought  
about by coercion and duress.  It would  be a nullity  in other words, there was no contract to 
which a section 75 claim could apply. 
That is reason  enough  for the bank  to validly refuse  Mrs Bs section 75 claim.
Ref: DRN45247862But secondly, there was no qualifying debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  in any case. On 
the facts as described by Mrs B, she paid off the debt of a third party, not her own debt. In 
such a situation,  section 75 also doesnt  apply.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ive concluded  Sainsburys  Bank Plc was acting within  its 
rights to refuse her section 75 claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524786