K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained about One Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on their car 
insurance policy.
Reference to One Insurance includes their agents.
background
Mr A is the policyholder  and Mrs A is a named  driver. In April 2018 their car was stolen from 
their drive. It was later recovered by the police, but it had been damaged. Mr and Mrs A 
claimed on their policy. 
After looking into it, One Insurance didnt pay the claim and they cancelled the policy. They 
said when Mr A spoke to them about  the claim, he said he worked  as a taxi driver. But when 
he took out the policy in 2015 he gave his occupation as Security Officer. At the time of the 
January 2018  renewal, Mr A was already working  as a taxi driver, but he didnt tell 
One Insurance of his change in occupation.  One Insurance  said that their underwriting 
guidelines, which are their rules that dictate who they can and cant  offer insurance cover to, 
meant they would never have offered to renew his cover if theyd known he was a taxi driver.  
One Insurance said that Mr A was under an obligation to tell them  of his change of 
occupation. And had he done so they would have stopped insuring him. 
Mr and Mrs A complained. They said: they acted in good faith at all times;  they were  never  
told they had to tell One Insurance if there  was a change of occupation; while Mr A had 
recently started working  as a taxi driver, at the same time he was still doing the other job 
which he had declared when the policy was taken out; the car that was stolen had nothing  to 
do with Mr As job as a taxi driver as it was the family car, and Mr A had a second  car that 
had taxi insurance. Mr and Mrs A were  also unhappy with One Insurances service and felt 
they had been treated poorly.
One Insurance didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. But they did offer them £150 
compensation to address the delay in their investigation. One Insurance said they also 
waived the £48.38 premium that was owed by Mr and Mrs A.
As Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy with One Insurances decision, they brought  their complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators  looked into the complaint and felt that One Insurance  
hadnt acted fairly in rejecting the claim. So she recommended  that One Insurance should  
consider the claim.
 
As One Insurance  didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 30 January 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs A, but Im not intending to uphold  his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN46658172In their complaint,  Mr and Mrs A have made a number of detailed  points and Ive 
considered all those  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I consider  to 
be the key issues.  My role is to decide if One Insurance have dealt with Mr and Mrs A 
in a fair and reasonable  way. 
When Mr A took out his policy  in 2015,  he gave  his occupation as Security  Officer. 
The policy was renewed in January of each subsequent year.  The theft happened  in 
the policy year that started in January 2018.  And in May 2017 his taxi insurance 
policy started. So when he came  to renew his One Insurance policy in January 2018,  
Mr A was working as a taxi driver. The renewal notice sent to Mr A had a section 
headed Important Information  Duty of Disclosure. It went  onto say that he must 
tell them  of any changes  in material information. It then went on to list a number of 
examples of what amounted to material information,  one of which  was A change in 
the occupation of any driver.  The policy terms and conditions booklet contained a 
condition that similarly said Mr A had a duty to tell One Insurance  of any change in 
his job. 
In their complaint  letter to One Insurance dated 13 May 2018, Mr and Mrs A 
accepted they hadnt  told One Insurance of Mr As change of occupation, they said:
Admittingly we should have  updated you of this change of circumstance but 
our policy has always  been automatically  renewed  and on our part this was 
an oversight.
I accept that during their relationship with One Insurance Mr and Mrs A have acted in 
good faith and had no intention of misleading  them, and that they failed to tell them  
that Mr A was working as a taxi driver  because of, as they said,  an oversight.  But, 
notwithstanding, Mr A failed in his duty to disclose material  information.
One Insurance said that had they known Mr A was a taxi driver they wouldnt have 
insured him. One Insurance have provided  me with information (their  underwriting 
guidelines) that confirms  that. In other words had they known of Mr As change of job 
One Insurance wouldn't have continued  to offer him cover.
Mr and Mrs A have  questioned why One Insurance said they wouldnt insure a taxi 
driver, theyve said that they couldnt  understand the logic of that. It might help if I 
explain that insurers have  their own internal guidelines and rules when deciding what 
risks they want to cover. These are commonly referred to as underwriting guidelines. 
As we are not the industry regulator  we cant tell an insurer  how they should assess a 
certain risk or who they should or shouldn't offer cover to. So we generally take the 
view that its up to each  individual insurer to decide for themselves  what risks they 
wish to accept or not. Some insurers will cover taxi drivers whereas some will not. So 
when looking at a complaint of this nature, well check to see if an insurers  decision 
not to cover  a risk (or offer cover) is in line with their internal guidelines, and that they 
treat their customers equally and fairly. And as already mentioned  above,  Im 
satisfied that One Insurances decision not to cover Mr A because he is a taxi driver 
is in line with their underwriting guidelines. So I think their decision was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs A said that if One Insurance  didnt insure taxi drivers, then something 
that important should  have been written into their policy terms and conditions, but it 
wasnt. I can understand why they said that, but there are so many  material facts,  
such as a customers occupation and health  condition to name just two, that to 
Ref: DRN46658173include all the information in the policy document would make  it unwieldy. Instead, 
when a customer makes an application  for insurance the insurers  questions  are 
designed in a way to find out all the relevant information to enable  them  to decide  
whether or not they will offer cover and on what terms. And Mr and Mrs As policy is 
clear that it required them  to tell One Insurance if there was a material  change to 
their circumstances, such as a change of job. So had Mr A applied for the same  
policy today and told One Insurance that he was a taxi driver,  and assuming the 
underwriting guidelines remained  unchanged, they wouldnt  offer him cover.
Mr and Mrs A said that although  Mr A was a taxi driver, he still worked as a security 
officer. But I have listened to the call Mr A made to One Insurance where  he 
discussed the claim. When  he was asked what his occupation was he said he had 
recently started working  as a taxi driver. He was then asked if he had any other part 
time jobs to which  he replied no. So the evidence I have seen suggests that he was 
only working as a taxi driver. But One Insurance have said that even  if Mr A had 
additional jobs, the fact remained that he was a taxi driver and wouldnt be covered. I 
think that is a reasonable conclusion to draw.
Mr and Mrs A felt that given the car that had been stolen had nothing to do with Mr 
As work as a taxi driver,  and that he had a separate car which  he used for that, One 
Insurance should pay the claim. But One Insurance havent suggested Mr A used the 
insured car as a taxi. Their  refusal  to cover  him was for the sole reason that he 
worked as a taxi driver.  And if hed told them that he wouldn't  have  had cover  with 
them.
Finally, Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with how their claim was dealt with. They  said 
the communication was poor and it took One Insurance three weeks  to make their 
decision that they werent going to pay the claim,  during  which time they gave Mr and 
Mrs A assurances that they would pay the claim.  Once the claim was made  One 
Insurance investigated, which is standard  procedure before an insurer  decides on an 
outcome. As the car had been  stolen  and recovered,  One Insurance  had to also deal 
with the police and consider all the information available.  I dont  feel that three  weeks  
was an unreasonable length  of time to investigate and reach a decision on a claim of 
this nature. I can understand why Mr and Mrs A were upset that the claim wasnt 
paid, especially after One Insurance  gave them the impression that their claim was 
likely to be paid. But One Insurance  have offered £150 compensation to address the 
service issues  and they also waived just under £50 of the outstanding premium,  
which I think was reasonable.
While I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs A find themselves in, I 
dont feel One Insurances  decision not to pay the claim and to cancel the policy  was 
unfair or unreasonable.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. One Insurance  accepted my provisional 
decision. Mr and Mrs A made  the following comments:
Mr and Mrs A had sent One Insurance two sets of the cars keys on One Insurances 
request. But One Insurance lost the keys and Mr and Mrs A would like to be 
reimbursed for the cost of the new keys.
One Insurances service was poor,  they were evasive and that they told untruths.
One Insurance should refund Mr and Mrs As premiums for the last few years.
Ref: DRN46658174my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to address Mr and Mrs As further comments,  as follows:
lost keys
This isn't an issue that One Insurance have responded to previously. So I think One 
Insurance should issue Mr and Mrs A with a final response letter on their position  regarding 
the two sets of keys and if Mr and Mrs A are not happy with the outcome, we can consider 
the complaint.
poor service
One Insurance have already offered Mr and Mrs A £150 compensation for the service 
issues, in particular the delay. They also waived around £50 of the premium. Mr and Mrs A 
feel that One Insurance had decided  from the start that they wouldnt pay the claim yet they 
didnt tell them until some  weeks later.  They  feel One Insurance should have told them  
straight away that they were investigating the validity of the claim. But its common for 
insurers to want to validate a claim before they decide whether  or not to pay it. And as that is 
standard procedure  across the insurance industry I wouldn't  expect an insurer  to explicitly 
tell their customers thats what theyre going  to do or exactly how they intended to go about 
that. But, in any event, One Insurance  has accepted  that their service  could have been 
better and they paid compensation to address Mr and Mrs As distress and inconvenience 
because of that And Im satisfied that compensation is reasonable in the circumstances, as 
its in line with awards we would  make  for cases of equal seriousness. 
request for the refund of premiums
Mr and Mrs A feel that their premiums  for the last few policy  years  should be refunded  given 
their policy was void. But in this instance, One Insurance didnt void the policy even though  
they could have. Instead, after learning  that the car was stolen  One Insurance  ended the 
policy, as there was no longer a car to insure on it. Later, when they learned that Mr A was 
working as a taxi driver,  they could have  decided to void the policy  but, as it had already 
ended, they didn't do so. And I think thats  reasonable  in the circumstances.
It might help if I explain that if One Insurance voided  the policy that would have been 
recorded on Mr As insurance history. And Mr A would have had to report the voidance  when  
applying for insurance  in the future. And if that happened Mr As insurance  record would 
have been seriously affected for years  to come. Thats because most  insurers  Im aware of 
consider a driver  whos  had a policy voided as being a significantly higher risk than drivers 
without a voided policy. And in those circumstances Mr A would have  struggled  to find an 
insurer who would offer a policy or if he was able to get cover, it would have been very 
expensive. But because  One Insurance decided not to void the policy Mr A wont  have to 
declare that to future  insurers,  which is to Mr As benefit. So I think their decision to deal with 
the matter in the way they did, even  though  it meant Mr and Mrs A didnt get a refund in 
premium, was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN46658175my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.   
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN4665817