K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Nationwide Building Society(Nationwide) closed her bank account 
and filed a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against  her name. She 
says shes been  unable to open a student account with another  bank and thinks  Nationwide 
is responsible for this. She wants Nationwide to remove the marker.
background
Miss D had a bank account with Nationwide. In September 2017 a payment  of £10,400 was 
made to the account. The same day a couple of attempts were  made  to transfer  the funds 
away, but these  along with Miss Ds online banking facility were  blocked by Nationwide as it 
had identified the activity on her account  as unusual and suspicious.
The following  day Nationwide was contacted by bank - S from which  the £10,400 payment 
had come. It said that its customer had been  the victim of an email interception scam  the 
money had, in effect, been transferred fraudulently into Miss Ds account. Nationwide 
investigated the matter, returned the remaining funds to S and informed Miss D that it was 
closing her account. It also placed  a CIFAS  marker against her name.  
Miss D contacted Nationwide almost  two years later in May 2019. She said she tried to open  
a student bank account, however, she was unable to do so. She was told that the reason  for 
that was that Nationwide had placed  a CIFAS marker against her name.  She asked 
Nationwide to remove the marker, but it refused. Nationwide said it couldnt agree with 
Miss D that it had acted  unfairly in this instance, or that it had recorded inaccurate 
information on her credit  file. Unhappy  with its response Miss D referred  the matter to this 
service.
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. She wasnt  persuaded Miss Ds 
version of events was accurate. She concluded that Nationwide had acted fairly. She didnt 
recommend that Nationwide  do anything  more to resolve Miss Ds complaint.  Miss D didnt 
accept the investigators  conclusions  and asked that an ombudsman  review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those  reached  by the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  considerations and the 
evidence. Both Miss D and Nationwide  have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.  However,  I can assure  
Miss D that Ive reviewed  everything, including her comments and evidence.  If I dont 
mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think  about  it, 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it to explain what I think  is the right outcome. 
I hope Miss D doesnt take this as a discourtesy; our rules allow  me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ref: DRN48384202The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. If a business  decides to file a marker it 
must have  evidence and meet CIFASs standard of proof. To meet  the standard  of proof the 
business must have:  reasonable  grounds  to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been  
committed or attempted;  and clear, relevant and rigorous evidence  such that the business 
could confidently report the conduct of the customer to the police.  This should be more  than 
just a suspicion or concern. 
Ive considered the guidelines and weighed the information Nationwide  had, as well as all 
the wider information  available to me. And I find there was a sufficient basis  for Nationwide 
to register the marker. 
I understand Miss D disagrees. She has said that she was not aware of any funds crediting 
her account,  she did not make the transfer request and she hadnt acted fraudulently.  
However, in this case Miss Ds bank  account received a credit  of £10,400. The next day the 
payment was found to have been fraudulent   in the sense that the customer from whose 
account itd been made  had been tricked  into making the payment to Miss Ds account.  Ive 
no reason to doubt the investigation  carried  out by S or to conclude  that both S and 
Nationwide had reached the wrong conclusion. That means that Miss Ds account was used 
to receive fraudulent payments.  
Nationwide has also provided  evidence to show that on the same day attempts were made 
to transfer those funds  out of Miss Ds account. These attempts were made online, using 
Miss Ds online banking  details, memorable data and passcodes  some of the activity on 
the day was from an IP address which she had used  to access  her online banking  before 
and as recently as a few days prior to the arrival of the fraudulent funds. 
Nationwide spoke to Miss D the day after the funds had credited the account and notification 
of fraud  had been received from S. During this call Miss D asked  what would happen to the 
funds in her account.  Nationwide  informed  her theyd be sent back to S as they were 
fraudulently sent,  and that her account  would be closed. During this call Miss D didnt deny 
this money was hers and didnt challenge  or dispute the decision to close her account.
I understand Miss D says she didnt speak to Nationwide  in September  2017. But I must 
account for the possibility that she may be saying this to try to distance herself from what  
had happened. Its quite  possible  she did speak to Nationwide on discovering access to her 
account had been restricted and payments requested  out of the account  were being refused. 
Having carefully thought  about this I think its more  likely than not that it was Miss D who 
spoke to Nationwide in September 2017. I say this because; 
Ref: DRN48384203-Nationwides security  verification was successfully passed;
-of course, I accept its possible, as Miss D has pointed out that someone couldve 
obtained all her personal and security  details  especially because she kept these 
written down in her room,  purse  and mobile  phone. This potentially  couldve made it 
easier for someone  other  than Miss D to pass Nationwides security checks over the 
phone. But I also need to ask myself  why a fraudster  would call Nationwide?  How 
would they have benefited from this? Whilst not conclusive on its own, its also not 
something Id typically  expect a fraudster to do; and
-having listened to several  calls Miss D has had with Nationwide  and this service, I do 
think its more likely  it was Miss D who spoke  to Nationwide  in September  2017  not 
some unknown  third-party. 
Miss D is adamant  she had no knowledge of the money paid into her account, but Im not 
persuaded this is the case. Having  reviewed the activity on Miss Ds account I can see she 
didnt use her account much. Prior to the fraudulent credit arriving  it appears  when  funds did 
arrive into her account, she knew how much  was in account and only the exact amount was 
spent. With that being said Miss D had a zero balance, no overdraft facility, received a credit  
of £10 into her account the week before the large fraudulent credit was received  but 
withdraw £20 the day after - this would suggest  that Miss D had knowledge of the balance in 
her account.  
I also note Miss Ds online banking  was accessed  from multiple different IP addresses. She 
believes this supports it wasnt her. I appreciate the point Miss D is trying to make  but this 
still doesnt prove she had no knowledge  of the activity on her account. Whilst its possible 
Miss D may not have  physically attempted to transfer the funds out of the account herself  I 
cant ignore that her online  banking records also show  a login on the day the funds arrived  
from the same device and IP address which she had used to access  her online banking  
before and as recently as a couple of days prior to the arrival of the fraudulent funds. 
Whilst Miss D later told our investigator she had lost her purse at the time. She couldnt 
provide her with specific details. She said shed written down and kept all her personal 
information and Nationwide  sign in details in her purse. She says its possible this is how a 
third-party was able to access her account.  Ive not seen any evidence to support that 
Miss D had informed Nationwide of this at the time. This is not the behaviour  Id usually 
expect to see if someone had lost their purse  containing potentially all their bank cards and, 
in these circumstances, specifically had their online banking details compromised  making 
Miss Ds recent testimony less credible. 
  
Taking all the above into consideration  I dont  think Miss Ds actions  feel like the behaviour  
of an innocent victim and the only logical conclusion I can draw from the above is that I think 
Miss D knows  more  than she has shared with Nationwide  and this service about the activity 
on her Nationwide  account. So, I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly in applying  the CIFAS  
marker or unreasonably more recently  in its refusal  to remove  it.  
I dont have reason  to doubt Miss D experienced difficulties in opening  a student account 
with another bank in the way she describes.  And this may be related to the CIFAs marker. 
But taking all the above points together  I think there  would have been  good grounds to 
report the events  here to the police to investigate,  and that Nationwide  were therefore 
justified in placing a CIFAS marker against  Miss Ds name. It follows  that I wont  be directing 
it to remove the marker or pay compensation to Miss D.
Ref: DRN48384204my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is to not uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
Sonal Matharu 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4838420