K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Pacific Financial Claims Ltd, trading as Professional  Reclaim Services 
(PRS), are charging him a fee for mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) claims which  
he says he cancelled.
background
In August  2017  Mr H instructed PRS to make claims against  his credit card accounts with 
Lender B. Lender B rejected the claims and, in January 2018, PRS escalated them to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  The claims were successful in February  and March  2018, 
and PRS invoiced Mr H for their fees. Mr H says he cancelled his claims with PRS, by phone 
and in writing, before  they were successful. Hes provided a letter dated 6 March 2018 which 
he says shows the claims  were cancelled.
Our investigator found that PRS had acted reasonably. She wasnt  convinced  the 
6 March 2018 letter was from PRS, as it contained  an address in Chesterfield   one PRS 
hadnt used since  May 2017. She also said that any cancellation in March  2018 wouldve 
been outside any cooling-off  period, so PRS wouldve charged for the work theyd done  up to 
cancellation. But she hadnt seen anything to show PRS had charged any cancellation fees, 
or that Mr H had paid any cancellation fees.
The investigator also found that Mr H had challenged PRSs fees between March  and 
October 2018, on the basis  they hadnt  done any work and that the claims were only 
successful because of the Financial Ombudsman  Service. It wasnt until PRS took legal 
action to recover their fees that Mr H first raised  the cancellation. Because of the information 
provided and the timeline of events, she felt Mr H hadnt cancelled his agreement  with PRS 
in March 2018 and their fees were due.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He says he checked with Companies House, who 
told him PRS started trading from the Bury address in February 2015. But because the 
addresses at the top and bottom  of the 6 March 2018 letter  are different, and refer to an 
address in Stoke-on-Trent, he believes PRS are still using the Chesterfield address. Mr H 
also feels that, because  he had two letters from the Chesterfield address,  and because  the 
contract came from that address, this shows they were still using the Chesterfield  address in 
March 2018.
Mr H has also said that because he cancelled the contract over the phone,  and because  
Lender B wouldve made their final decision in December 2017  but PRS didnt have  it until 
February 2018, PRS made a mistake  so they couldnt charge him a cancellation fee. He also 
finds it strange that PRS cant produce  the phone calls or print outs of the calls where he 
cancelled the contract. He feels theyre  trying to hide something.
Mr H has also referred  to a letter from Lender B, which he says shows  that another  Claims 
Management Company (CMC)  did the work  on his claims, because PRS had cancelled the 
contract with him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN47247462It would be helpful  if, before  I explain  the reasons for my decision, I give a brief breakdown of 
the registered addresses used by PRS. As a limited  company PRS are required to keep 
Companies House  updated with this information. So the address information  Ive used has 
been obtained from the Companies House website. I also note that Mr H has already been 
given this website  address  so he can access this information.
9 Feb 2015   PRS incorporated  at an address in Oldham
4 August 2015  address changed to a different address in Oldham
24 March 2016  address changed  to a different address in Oldham
8 February 2017  address changed  to an address in Chesterfield
5 April 2017  address  changed to a care of address in Stoke-on-Trent
24 May 2017  address changed to an address in Bury
19 July 2017   address in Bury changed from two floors  in building to one floor
Mr H signed a Letter of Authority, instructing  PRS to act for him, on 13 August 2017. This 
shows the Bury (one floor) address,  so it matches with the address details held by 
Companies House.  But the Terms  and Conditions show both the Chesterfield and care of 
Stoke-on Trent addresses. I think this is most likely  because PRS had recently changed  
address and were  using  up a stock of old conditions,  even though  theyd changed their letter 
headed paper to show their correct Bury address.
The evidence Ive seen  shows that PRS dealt  with Mr Hs claims and, when  they were  
rejected by Lender B, they escalated the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This 
is what I wouldve expected them to do when dealing with a claim and, once  the matter  had 
been escalated; there  was nothing else they needed  to do to progress the claim.  unless 
the Financial Ombudsman Service asked them for further information.
PRS charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon  the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, PRSs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. 
Just because PRSs fee is higher than the value of the work they have  done  for Mr H doesnt  
make their fee unjustified.
Ive seen a copy  of an undated letter from Mr H, asking for confirmation that his account is 
now closed. Ive also seen a letter dated 6 March 2018 which states  Thank  you for your 
letter i [sic] can confirm your account has now been  closed as your [sic] not entitled to 
anymore [sic] mis-sold ppi on your [Lender B] accounts. This letter is on PRS headed  paper  
and has the Chesterfield address on the top and the care of Stoke-on-Trent address on the 
bottom.
But Ive also seen an email from PRS dated 31 January  2018,  letters  to Mr H dated 
13 February and 2 March  2018, and an invoice dated 13 February 2018. All of these have  
the Bury (one floor)  address on them. This is also the address the Financial  Ombudsman  
Services used when  they wrote to PRS on 7 February 2018. So Im satisfied that PRS were  
using the Bury (one floor) address on their correspondence before the 6 March  2018. So I 
find it very unusual that the 6 March 2018  letter would be sent out using headed paper PRS 
hadnt used for some  time, and most  likely not since August  2017.
Ref: DRN47247463The 6 March 2018 letter also doesnt match with the timeline of events. At this point Mr Hs 
claims were  with the Financial Ombudsman  Service who were considering Lender Bs 
rejection. Because of this, I dont think PRS wouldve said that Mr H wasnt  entitled  to any 
PPI refund   they wouldnt have known if he was entitled  to any PPI refund or not until the 
Financial Ombudsman  Services  investigation  was finished.
And if Mr H had cancelled  his claims in March  2018, I wouldve expected PRS to charge him 
cancellation fees. But I havent  seen  that they did this, and I havent  seen anything to show 
me that PRS made a mistake which meant  they couldnt charge him any fees.
Copies of any calls with Mr H that took place before 1 April 2019 arent available. This is 
because, before this date, there wasnt a requirement for PRS to record calls.  Because of 
this, the lack of call recordings doesnt  mean they are trying to hide something. I cant 
uphold a complaint on the lack of call recordings alone and I have to rely on what  both 
parties have told me, and make my decision on what evidence  I have seen.
Ive seen a copy  of PRSs system notes for the period 23 August  2017 to 21 January 2019. 
While this shows the work PRS did on the claim,  theres no reference to either Mr H calling 
them about  cancellation, or that they wrote to him about cancellation.
Mr H has provided a letter from Lender  B, dated 4 May 2018,  which  he says shows  that 
another CMC dealt  with the claims  for him. But this letter refers to loan accounts Mr H had 
with Lender B. PRS were dealing with claims  for credit cards Mr H had had with Lender B, 
not loans. And Ive seen a letter dated 18 February 2018 from Lender B, which  says a claim 
was successful and that the claim had been  submitted by PRS.  This letter  refers  to Mr Hs 
credit card accounts with Lender B. So I dont think the 4 May 2018 letter refers to the claims 
PRS are charging Mr H for. 
For these reasons, I cant agree that the 6 March  2018 letter definitely came from PRS.  So I 
cant rely on this to say Mr H cancelled the contract. And I havent seen anything else to 
show me that Mr H cancelled the contract. Because if this I agree with the investigator that 
PRS are entitled to charge their fees.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Pacific Financial Claims Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4724746