K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not tell it that there were going  
to be problems with a faster payment and had withdrawn business services from a branch.
background
S sent a faster payment for £40,000 to the personal account of its director  on Sunday 8 July 
2018. It did not arrive and the director contacted HSBC about this. A complaint was closed 
on 9 July 2018 before the money had been received. She says it was credited on 10 July 
2018 at 17:00 and was for important  renovation  work in her home.  HSBC  has paid S £250  in 
compensation.
The investigator did not recommend it do anything further. She said that if HSBC had been 
aware of the problems  at the time of the payment then it ought to have let S know. But that 
the compensation reflected the inconvenience and poor service  and we wouldnt be making  
an award for the personal time spent on this by the director. The account  of S had always 
been managed  by a central,  not branch team, so she did not think  there had been any failure  
when HSBC did not have business  banking staff in a local branch.
S did not agree. It said that this award will not make  HSBC change its practices. The director  
was not able to work for the hours she spent on the phone which has a huge impact on S. If 
the resolution can only be monetary then the amount paid is not sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that there were  intermittent problems in sending faster payments between 
13:00 and 17:30 on 8 July 2018. This was due to a technology problem experienced by the 
third party that processes  the payments. And it affected the whole banking industry. This 
clearly took some time to resolve  as the payment made by S did not arrive  for two days. I 
note that the website  of that third party says about this incident that no one will be left out of 
pocket as a result and that the industry has a collective  agreement to make  sure customers  
are protected financially  in situations  like this.
The director  of S clearly spent time trying to find out what  had happened  to its payment. And 
in the first final response on 9 July 2018 HSBC apologised for not being  able to warn S 
about the problems with the payments in advance. That letter  also said that HSBC trusted 
that the payment had been  received.  The director went  to a branch of S the next day having 
not received the payment.  S complained further and HSBC sent another  final response letter 
this time apologising for the inconvenience  and concern caused and confirming a payment of 
£250 as a gesture of goodwill was being made.
HSBC did not take steps to alert S of the problems when it made the payment. After  that I 
think the information HSBC could provide was limited to what it was told by the third party.  
The time taken before  this payment was successful was not within  its direct control. But it 
took the instruction from S to make this payment on its behalf  and bears  a responsibility to S 
for the consequences.
Ref: DRN46290082Having said all that I need to look at the specific impact for S. It is a separate entity  to the 
director, and a company  cannot experience distress.  This payment  was for the personal use 
of the director. So I am not persuaded that S had suffered any financial loss as a result of 
the payment not being received in time. There was inconvenience caused by the need to 
follow this up. We dont often make  an award for the time spent on a complaint but look at 
overall compensation. And I agree with the investigator that whether or not HSBC provides 
specific business banking  services in a branch local to S is a matter for its discretion. HSBC  
has shown that its management of the relationship with S was by a central team.
Taking all this into account and our published guidelines about compensation I consider that 
the offer by HBSC is reasonable to reflect the inconvenience and poor service provided to S 
in dealing with this delayed payment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4629008