K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage and unsecured loan held jointly by Mrs and Mr B with 
NRAM Limited. In summary,  they complain that the mortgage was mis-sold, unaffordable 
from the start, and that NRAM failed to treat them fairly in changed circumstances. Instead, it 
harassed them, applied  unfair fees and charges, wrongly apportioned payments  between the 
two debts, calculated  the mortgage  payments wrongly and obtained a court order in reliance 
on inaccurate information. Both borrowers  have signed our complaint form, but our dealings 
have been exclusively with Mrs B. As a remedy, Mrs B says NRAM should  write off the debt 
altogether.
background 
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  
presented, using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  
The mortgage started in 2007, when Mrs and Mr B, on the advice  and recommendation of a 
third party intermediary Ill call MT, borrowed just under £195,500 secured by a mortgage 
over their home, and just under £29,600  on an unsecured loan. In 2009,  Mrs and Mr B 
separated, and subsequently  divorced; Mrs B says since  then shes had to manage the 
mortgage and loan payments on her own. Arrears accrued and in November 2011, NRAM 
obtained a suspended possession order  (SPO).
The terms of the SPO meant that NRAM couldnt  enforce possession provided the full 
payment was made plus an additional £30 each month.  At this point, the arrears were just 
under £7,800. In 2012, another creditor obtained an interim charging order.  
In 2015, we received a complaint from Mrs and Mr B about NRAMs handling of payments 
made to the two accounts; they said NRAM had demanded more than the court  order 
required of them and had sent arrears and litigation  correspondence unnecessarily.  That 
complaint was resolved informally without the need for a decision from an ombudsman. The 
adjudicator who looked at the complaint thought that NRAM had made a reasonable offer of 
compensation (£600);  he recommended Mrs and Mr B accept it, and they did.
However, the arrears  continued to rise and in 2018,  Mrs B made a further  complaint, along  
the lines I summarised in the opening section above. NRAM largely rejected the complaint, 
but did identify  some further occurrences  of wrongly-apportioned payments. It corrected  
these and offered  £200 compensation. Mrs B referred the complaint to us, and at our 
request, Mr B joined  it. By February of this year, the arrears were reportedly  more than 
£20,000, but Mrs B said an audit  company  had identified  accounting  errors  totalling more 
than £10,000.
Ref: DRN45941012This time, the adjudicator  assigned the complaint didnt uphold the bulk of it. He explained 
that the mortgage had been sold by MT, not by NRAM,  so an alleged  mis-sale couldnt form 
part of this complaint.  He also said we wouldnt look again at matters  wed dealt with in the 
2015 complaint.  As far as fees and charges  were  concerned, he noted that NRAM hadnt yet 
been given the opportunity to look into them, which meant theyd have  to be the subject of a 
separate complaint. He said the same about the alleged accounting errors, because as yet 
the evidence from the audit company hadnt been  produced for NRAM to consider. 
The adjudicator thought  NRAM had taken reasonable steps  to put right the recurrence  of 
wrongly-apportioned payments,  and recommended Mr and Mrs B accept  the £200 on offer.  
As far as everything else was concerned, he wasnt persuaded NRAM had treated 
Mrs and Mr B unfairly or unreasonably. When Mrs B referred  to it as having obtained an 
illegal charging order,  he explained  that what NRAM had obtained was the SPO.  
Mrs and Mr B have  asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some  general  observations about how our rules restrict what I can deal with 
here. The adjudicator  was right to say we wont revisit the complaint from 2015. Generally  
speaking, we dont  look at the same  complaint twice; the only time wed do that would be if, 
in the opinion of an ombudsman, new evidence had come to light that would  have made a 
difference to the original outcome if it had been  available then. I dont find that to be the case  
here. 
The adjudicator was also right to say the fees and charges must be dealt with in a separate  
complaint; we cant get involved until after a business has been given the opportunity  to 
address a complaint first. That was the case with the fees and charges, and I understand 
NRAM has now responded, so if Mrs and Mr B want to refer that separate  complaint to us 
they can do so. It wont be dealt with here.
Also, despite  Mrs Bs protestations,  the same applies in respect of the allegation of 
accounting errors. We often say to consumers that if they arrange, at their own expense  
initially, for their mortgage accounts  to be independently audited  by a suitably-qualified third 
party, then the resulting  report can form evidence  in a complaint  to the business, and then to 
us if need be. If the report revealed errors to the consumers detriment, wed expect the 
business to put them  right and reimburse the cost of the audit as well. Thats not what  has 
happened here, at least  not yet. 
What has happened  in this case is that Mrs B has approached a claims management 
company, which  has told her there are errors to the value of around £10,000, but no audit 
report had been  produced. The claims management  company requires Mrs and/or Mr B to 
sign up to an Mrs and Mr B havent  done that, so for the time being, theres no evidence  for 
NRAM to look at and respond to, and nothing for the Financial Ombudsman Service  to 
consider either.
Turning to the sale of the mortgage; this happened  in 2007, and so I must  assess  it against 
the regulatory standards in place  then, not those  that apply now.  A lender didnt have  to 
Ref: DRN45941013replicate the role of the broker. When a mortgage application was presented to a lender  from 
a broker, the responsibility for any advice that may be given about the suitability of the 
lending lay with the broker rather than with the lender. In the case at hand, that was MT. 
NRAM had a duty to lend responsibly, but unless there was anything  in the information 
presented by MT that gave NRAM manifest cause for alarm, it wasnt unreasonable  for 
NRAM to accept the information  MT had provided on face value.
Nothing Ive seen here would cause me to think NRAM should have had misgivings about 
the affordability of the application Mrs and Mr B had made. If they have any concerns that 
MT submitted an unaffordable mortgage application  to NRAM, they would need to complain 
separately to MT.
In making that observation, I am making  no recommendation that they should  do so, and no 
inferences should be drawn  on what  the merits of such  a complaint, if made,  might  be. But I 
cant fairly hold NRAM liable for any acts or omissions  there may have been  on MTs part.
What is apparent is that Mrs and Mr Bs wider circumstances  changed significantly after the 
mortgage and loan were granted. The mortgage  was granted  to a couple who were both 
earning and contributing to the household. But that hasnt applied  since  2009, and it was that 
change that brought about the financial difficulties and arrears  that led to the SPO being  
granted in 2011. Insofar as a court considered it fair to grant the order,  Im not going to 
second- guess that judgement
Mrs B thinks  NRAM gave  the court wrong information on which to base its decision; if she 
thinks that, shed  need to make her case to the court. Its not my place to decide  how the 
court would have  ruled in 2011  if it had been given  different information to consider.
What I will do is provide  some clarity  on the difference between a possession order  
(suspended or otherwise) and a charging  order. A possession  order  is granted to a secured 
creditor, and gives it the right,  if so directed by the court, to enforce possession and sale of a 
property to recover an outstanding debt. A charging  order is an order issued by a court  
allowing a previously unsecured creditor to recover an outstanding debt following the sale of 
a property, provided there is sufficient equity after the first and any subsequent  mortgages 
have been repaid. A holder of a charging  order cant force a sale,  however.
I now turn to how NRAM has treated Mrs B (and it is largely her rather than Mr B in this 
respect) in financial hardship. Its a common misconception that the rules of mortgage 
regulation require lenders to provide forbearance. What they actually require lenders to do is 
consider each set of individual circumstances fairly to decide if forbearance should be 
provided; the two things  arent the same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering help to 
consumers going  through  a temporary  problem, especially in situations where it can be seen 
their situation is likely to improve. The problem here is that the financial difficulties have been 
anything but temporary.  Thats not unsurprising; Mrs B has, for pretty much ten years,  been  
trying on her own to pay a debt that needed  two incomes to manage it.
NRAM has provided forbearance, both before and since the SPO was granted.  Theres no 
doubt Mrs B in particular  (weve not been  told anything  about Mr Bs situation) has gone  
through very difficult times, and continues to do so. The pressure to maintain the mortgage  
payments against  such a backdrop must have been immense,  and Im not unsympathetic 
towards that. But my impartiality  means I must also have  regard  for NRAMs point of view, 
and in the eight years since  the SPO was granted, the arrears  have almost trebled. I 
Ref: DRN45941014appreciate Mrs B may not see things  that way, but NRAM has actually shown remarkable 
patience and lenience  towards her for a very long time. Its not obliged  to do so indefinitely.
Thats not to say it hasnt got things wrong along  the way. Its on record as having twice  
mis-apportioned payments between  the secured and unsecured part of the debt. Clearly that 
shouldnt happen  once, never  mind  twice, and Ive no doubt  it adds  to Mrs Bs sense  of 
unease that all may not be as it should.  And there is still the possibility that a separate  
complaint backed  up by an independent  audit report might reveal other errors.
But if that happened (and to be clear, Im not implying Mrs and/or Mr B should  sign an  
agreement with the claims management  company or indeed obtain their own independent 
audit report  theyll have  to decide those  things for themselves) wed expect NRAM to act 
on the evidence  and put mistakes right. Thats what it has done in respect of the 
apportionment errors;  I dont think it needs to do any more.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from the submissions the determination with which Mrs B has 
presented the complaint. She sees error  or wrong-doing in almost  everything the bank has 
done (or not done). Thats  a natural, subjective  reaction,  and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.  Having  done  
so, I cant find in Mrs and Mr Bs favour, however much they think  I should.
Mrs and Mr B dont  have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
NRAM will be bound by my final decision.  Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, their right to take legal  action against NRAM over the subject matter  of 
this complaint wont have  been prejudiced  by our consideration of the complaint. They  
wouldnt necessarily have  to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event NRAM was to take possession proceedings, Mrs and Mr B can, if they wish, ask 
the court to consider all of the arguments  theyve presented here as part of their defence. It 
would then be for the court to decide  whether, in all those circumstances, it was fair to give 
possession of the mortgaged property to NRAM. 
my final decision
Mrs B is in an unenviable position; trying  hard to keep her home.  But Im not persuaded 
NRAM put her in that position, and whilst it has made mistakes from time to time, I dont 
think NRAM has made that position  materially  worse. So my final decision  is that, for the 
most part, I dont uphold the broad  thrust of this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order 
NRAM Limited to pay Mrs and Mr B £200. I make no other order or award.
Ref: DRN45941015Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4594101