K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. 
Miss W says Canada  Square Operations Limited,  trading as Egg, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Although I have only included some  of the complaint points made by each party,  I have read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss W says the PPI was added without her knowledge, and as the card was taken out 
online she never agreed to the PPI. Ive seen  screen shots of the online application process  
Canada Square  says Miss W wouldve seen and completed. Ive not seen any reason to 
doubt that these  are copies the screens  Miss W wouldve seen, so Ive relied  on these 
samples in my decision. These show Miss W wouldve had to select  either  yes or no for 
the PPI before submitting  her application.  Canada Square says the PPI wouldve  only been 
added to her account if shed ticked  the yes option online, and she wouldnt have been able 
to progress with her application without  making  a selection here.
The online applications record which recorded  what Miss W entered  online suggests that 
she chose the yes option to have PPI added to her account.  So based on the evidence Ive 
seen I think Canada Square did make it clear  that the PPI was optional,  and she chose to 
take it out.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if the policy 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss W got the information  she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
Miss W says she had sufficient other  means  at the time so she wouldnt have had any 
difficulty making her repayments. However,  the PPI wouldve paid 10% of her outstanding 
monthly balance, up to a maximum  of £1,500,  for up to 12 months. And this wouldve paid 
out in addition to her sick pay, meaning these funds wouldve been free to use for other 
expenses. Miss W also says she couldve relied on her partner to make  her repayments. But 
support from others cant be relied  upon because  although its likely Miss Ws partner  
wouldve wanted to help, their circumstances couldve also changed.
Miss W told us she had recently received a large  inheritance and also had a separate  sick 
pay policy at the time the PPI was sold to her. We asked for evidence  of this but at the time 
Ref: DRN41545442of writing neither  Miss W nor her representative  have  been able to provide any evidence so 
unfortunately Ive not been  able to rely on this information as Miss W wouldve liked me to 
have. 
So overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Miss W and I dont  think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. It follows  then that I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Canada  Square doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss W because:
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. Because  Canada  Square didnt 
tell Miss W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Miss W any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4154544