K822xcomplaint
Miss T is unhappy with TSB Bank plcs (TSB)  handling of a payment refunded to a closed  
current account.
background 
Miss T held a current account  with TSB that she arranged to switch  to another bank. After  
the switch was complete; Miss Ts insurance  company processed  a refund, which she 
believed was credited to her TSB current  account.  Miss T expected this payment to be 
automatically transferred  to her new account, as indicated  under the switch  service 
guarantee TSB subscribes  to. However,  this didnt happen.
Unsure where her money went, Miss T contacted TSB. She says it didnt reply to her 
complaint so she asked  us to look into what had happened.
TSB initially said it had managed to locate the payment and arranged to forward  it to 
Miss Ts new current account. It offered £50 for the trouble and upset Miss T had 
experienced. When Miss T hadnt  received the payment, TSB told us that actually this hadnt  
happened. In fact, it said the money had been  returned to Miss Ts insurance company, and 
she would  need  to contact it for a refund. 
Miss T said she wasnt happy with the prospect of having to contact  the insurance company  
for her money after the time that had passed  since it processed her refund. She was also 
unhappy with the initial lack of response  to her complaint from TSB, and says this has been  
made worse by its sudden  change  in terms of what it said about where her money was. In 
order to resolve her complaint, Miss T considers £250 is an appropriate amount to reflect  the 
trouble, upset and overall inconvenience shes experienced.
Our investigator agreed in the circumstances it was for Miss T to contact her insurance  
company. He agreed £50 was a fair payment for the trouble  and upset experienced. Miss T 
didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was a bit of confusion around  when the refund was processed from the insurance 
company. Miss T thought  it might  have been as early as May 2018, but TSB say it was 
actually August. They say the money  had been  refunded to an old debit card which  had 
been historically been blocked due to reported fraudulent activity. And this was why it didnt 
automatically transfer the money from the old current account to the new account as Miss T 
expected. 
TSB say that, as a result of some problems migrating to a new IT platform  in 2018, some 
debit card payments  were  meld in a migration account and took longer  to process than 
usual. This explains  the delay  between  the payment being refunded to TSB in August, 
located and returned to the insurance company  in November 2018. 
Its usual practice for refunds to be made  to the original payment method.  In this instance  the 
debit card had historically been blocked  due to a report of potential fraudulent activity. And, 
Ref: DRN40585572as the current account  linked  to the debit card was closed, this meant  the payment was held 
in a migration  account. Im satisfied with TSBs explanation as to why the payment wasnt  
automatically transferred  to Miss Ts new current account. 
Having looked  at the documents,  I can see the payment was returned to the insurance  
company. I dont think TSB acted wrongly in how it handled this refund and returning  it to the 
insurance company.  Although it might  have taken longer than usual due to the well-
publicised IT problems.
I dont think TSB is responsible for paying  Miss T the money owed to her by the insurance  
company. Its provided evidence to show this money  was returned to the insurance  company 
and I think its for Miss T to decide if she wants to contact that company to pursue her 
refund.
However, Im not persuaded that, having considered  what both sides  have told us, TSB 
handled Miss Ts request to trace her money  as well as it could have. TSB has said it 
doesnt hold full copies of her account  notes as a result of the migration to the new IT 
platform. So Ive taken Miss Ts account  of how many times she contacted TSB as being  an 
accurate reflection of what happened. 
Miss T contacted TSB October and in December 2018 but didnt receive an answer. And 
then, when she referred the complaint  to us, she was given conflicting  information and 
expected the payment to be forwarded  to her new account when it had been returned to her 
insurance company.  
TSB accepts the level of service it gave Miss T fell below the level she should have 
expected. However,  like the investigator, I think a payment of £50 is a fair amount which 
recognises the trouble, upset and confusion  Miss T has experienced in respect  of trying to 
find out where her missing money  was, and for the confusing and conflicting messages shes 
received. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint;  TSB Bank Plc should pay Miss T £50 for the trouble and upset shes  
experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4058557