K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid was irresponsible  when it 
provided him with loans  in 2013.
background
Mr B took two loans  with QuickQuid. I've prepared this table from some  of the information 
QuickQuid has provided to us about  Mr Bs loans.
 date takenprincipal 
amountdate 
repaidterm 
(days)
Loan 114/03/13 £350.00 30/04/13 48
Loan 230/04/13 £650.00 _ 59
Both loans  were due to be repaid  through  two instalments. The first instalment of each 
consisted only of interest.  The second  repayment (the balloon  payment) included further 
interest and the entire principal sum. 
Mr B didnt completely  repay Loan 2. QuickQuid has recently  confirmed that it has now 
waived the outstanding balance on that loan.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Bs complaint in respect of Loan  2 should be upheld. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with our adjudicator. As the complaint wasnt resolved it came to me, 
an ombudsman, for a final decision.  A couple  of weeks  ago I issued a provisional decision in 
which I explained why I was minded to uphold more aspects of Mr Bs complaint than our 
adjudicator had recommended. I asked the parties  to let me have anything  else they wanted 
me to think  about before  I reconsidered my decision.   Both parties have now responded.
As this is my final decision, if it is accepted  by Mr B it will be binding  on the parties.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And as I mentioned  in my provisional 
decision, weve set out our general  approach to complaints about short-term lending   
including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good industry practice   on our website. 
Since issuing my provisional  decision QuickQuid has confirmed it has nothing to add. Mr B 
has raised some questions about the compensation but hasnt provided me with anything  
new to consider. In these  circumstances I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions 
about the outcome of Mr Bs complaint  but I will address his questions  in the putting things 
right section below.  
Ref: DRN46858002This is what  I said in my provisional  decision:
At the time Mr B was borrowing from QuickQuid  the regulator was the Office  of Fair 
Trading (OFT).  In very basic terms QuickQuid had a duty to act responsibly and 
fairly. It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr B could afford  to pay back each 
loan sustainably before  it lent to him. Theres no set list of what  a lender should do to 
check affordability in every case.  But checks should  be proportionate to things  like 
the size of the loan, the repayments, what the lender knows about the consumer and 
what the consumer  tells the lender about  their circumstances. In general, Id expect a 
lender to require  more  assurance the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not 
being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
So, for example,  Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying  out more 
detailed checks
the higher  the loan amount,
the lower the consumers income
the greater  the number  and frequency of the loans
the longer  the lending relationship
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  I think its important to 
remember that the purpose of short term credit is to provide a solution  to a short term 
cash flow problem and using this type of credit to meet ongoing financial need is 
likely to be unsustainable.
So, Ive thought about these overarching questions:
For each loan,  did QuickQuid carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
If it didnt carry out those checks, would they have shown that Mr B could 
have repaid the loans sustainably?
Given this type of loan is intended  for short-term  use only,  did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Mr Bs first loan was for £350.  It was due to be repaid through two instalments. The 
first was to be £87.50  on 28 March 2013.  The balloon payment was due on 1 May 
2013: Mr B was due to repay £437.50.
QuickQuid asked Mr B about his income. He declared a monthly income  of £1,200.  I 
havent seen any evidence that QuickQuid  asked Mr B about  his outgoings  though I 
can see from its file that it was aware that he was renting his accommodation. So at 
the very least,  it seems he had rent to pay.
Ref: DRN46858003QuickQuid says that it carried out a number of other checks and analysed Mr Bs 
current financial commitments, insolvency records, delinquency  records, County 
Court judgments, credit enquiries  and other  credit accounts currently  open.
The balloon payment due on 1 May was going  to amount to well over one-third of Mr 
Bs declared  monthly  income. I acknowledge that this was Mr Bs first loan with 
QuickQuid but given the amount he was due to repay I think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to confirm what Mr Bs normal  monthly  outgoings and credit 
commitments would be and whether or not he had other short  term credit  
commitments. By checking this QuickQuid wouldve been able to reasonably  satisfy  
itself that this loan was affordable for Mr B in a sustainable way.
Although I note what QuickQuid says it did during  its checks, I'm not persuaded that 
it did enough. Theres no evidence that it understood Mr Bs monthly financial 
commitments. I've seen Mr Bs credit  file and other information. These demonstrate 
that Mr B had other  existing credit commitments  which meant that it was very unlikely 
hed be able to afford  Loan 1. For example I can see that Mr B had a personal loan 
which had been  live for around four years  at the time he took Loan 1.  He  was 
repaying this at about £200 per month.  
In addition to his personal loan Mr B was borrowing from another high-cost short-
term lender on a regular  basis.  In the period before he took Loan 1, Mr B had 
borrowed month on month from this other lender and the amounts being borrowed 
were increasing. A couple of weeks before Mr B took Loan 1 hed borrowed £550 
from the other lender - meaning that he had to repay  almost £700 to that lender  
during the period he had Loan 1 from QuickQuid. 
It seems  to me that had QuickQuid done  proportionate checks  it wouldve realised 
that Mr B wouldnt be in a position to repay Loan  1 in a sustainable  way. I see that 
QuickQuid has pointed  out that Mr B repaid Loan  1 early and so saved some  interest.  
But Im not persuaded that this meant  he was able to sustainably repay Loan 1  
especially as he took Loan 2 on the same day for almost double the amount. For a 
loan to be sustainable it had to be repayable out of income or savings without the 
need to re-borrow   something Mr B did immediately.
This brings  me to Loan 2.
As I've mentioned  Mr B took this loan on the same  day he repaid Loan 2. His 
declared monthly income remained  the same at £1,200. This time he was due to 
repay £130 at the end of May and £780  at the end of June. In other words he was 
going to have to use almost  two-thirds of his income  to repay this loan at the end of 
June. 
QuickQuid may have expected Mr B to put money aside to meet the balloon payment 
but that wasnt a reasonable  expectation in these circumstances.  The fact that hed 
needed to take two loans  in the way he did, suggests - in itself - that he wasnt  in a 
position to save  money  for the final repayment.  And whats more, had QuickQuid 
done proportionate checks it wouldve learnt that Mr B had again borrowed from the 
other payday lender whilst Loan  1 had been live. On this occasion he borrowed £700 
and was due to repay over £900 early  in May. 
Ref: DRN46858004With all this in mind  Im satisfied that it was highly likely that Mr B wouldnt be able to 
meet the final repayment without having to borrow again. Indeed Mr B didnt manage 
to repay  this loan as agreed  he didnt  make the balloon repayment at the end of 
June and was charged a late fee. He went on to extend this loan several times. Until 
recent times  there has been  a balance outstanding.
I havent seen  anything to persuade me to change my decision.  So I uphold Mr Bs complaint 
about both loans QuickQuid provided to him.
putting things right
QuickQuid shouldnt have  provided  Loans  1 and 2 to Mr B. 
I understand that there was an outstanding balance on Loan  2. But I also understand that 
QuickQuid has now written that off. However wed usually expect a consumer to repay the 
principal - because they did have  the benefit of it - even if the loan shouldnt have been 
provided to him in the first place and even where the business may have since  written off a 
principal sum. Ill explain below how this affects  Mr Bs compensation. 
This is what  I require QuickQuid to do:
A)Refund the total charges and interest  Mr B paid towards Loan 1 together  with 8% 
simple interest* on each  individual  payment made by Mr B from the date he originally 
made the payment to the date the complaint  is settled.
B)On Loan 2 QuickQuid should treat the payments made  by Mr B as though  they were 
against the principal sum until the point  hed repaid an amount equivalent to that 
principal sum (£650). From my review of the statement of account  it seems that if 
Mr Bs repayments are applied to his account in this way, then he had, in effect,  
repaid the principal  (£650) at the end of September 2013.  This means that Mr Bs 
payments from that point  onwards were  overpayments and QuickQuid should  refund 
all those payments together with 8% simple interest*  on each individual  payment 
made by Mr B from the date he, in effect,  repaid the principal sum.
I've thought about what Mr B has said about 8% interest being added  to all the 
payments he made on Loan 2 but Im not persuaded that it would be fair to do this. 
He did receive £650  of principal from QuickQuid and in the circumstances of this 
case it seems  to me that it would be unfair to require QuickQuid to put things right in 
a way which would mean it would also lose that money. However I do require 
QuickQuid to pay some compensation to Mr B in relation to Loan 2. So it only needs 
to refund the amounts  he paid over and above the principal amount. And because  it 
was unfair  for Mr B to be without these  sums,  QuickQuid should add a compensatory  
amount of interest  to them  8%.
C)Remove any adverse  information about Loans 1 and 2 from Mr Bs credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to deduct tax from this interest.  It should  give
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one
Ref: DRN46858005my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint 
and require CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right in the way I've explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4685800