K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pursue a chargeback  claim in relation to a 
holiday which he paid for using his card.
background
Mr L purchased a Silversea luxury  cruise through a travel agent. Mr L paid for the cruise 
using his Lloyds  credit card.
Mr L was very disappointed with his holiday experience. In particular he explained that he 
and his wife were not advised that at the time of booking their cruise an overwhelming  
majority of the suites had been allocated to two large group bookings. He says that if he had 
been given this information he would  have chosen  not to travel  on this cruise. Mr L 
complained to the cruise company whilst  on board and pursued his complaints upon  his 
return. Silversea  offered  a discount  on a future  booking and onboard credit but Mr L 
considered he should  have a refund. 
Mr L complained to Lloyds and in his letter of complaint set out that he would like to raise  
either a claim under  s75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  or a chargeback.  
Lloyds decided to review the claim  under  S75 and did not raise a chargeback. The s75 claim 
was declined on the basis that the debtor-creditor supplier chain was broken in this instance  
as Mr L paid the travel agent and not the cruise company.  Because  of this Lloyds  explained 
that the s75 claim could  not be upheld. In its final response letter  Lloyds also set out that for 
similar reasons a chargeback claim would  also be unsuccessful as the contractual 
relationship between Mr L and the travel agent was for the booking of the cruise and transfer 
of money to the cruise provider. In these  circumstances there  was nothing to support a 
chargeback claim. Lloyds  said that it had not handled Mr Ls complaint well in respect of the 
explanation he was given during a telephone call and sent him £50 compensation in 
recognition of this.
Mr P complained to this service that a chargeback had been refused and he had not had an 
adequate explanation in writing. He said that Lloyds had incorrectly  considered a s75 claim 
and the time limit for a chargeback had now expired.   
The investigator initially thought that the complaint did qualify under s75 as it was a package 
holiday and the travel agent  was responsible  for the performance of the whole of the 
package. She thought that Lloyds should refund Mr L 20% of the original cost of the cruise in 
recognition of the issues that he had whilst on board. 
Lloyds responded to the investigators view and asked for confirmation  that Mr L had in fact 
booked a package  holiday and pointed out that the regulations that the investigator was 
referring to didnt come into force until around a year after Mr L had booked  his holiday. 
Upon reflection and after getting  in touch with the travel agent  the investigator  concluded  
that in fact the debtor-creditor-supplier chain was broken as the travel agent  had not put the 
package together  and this was arranged by Silversea. 
She considered that the chargeback claim would  fail for the same reasons as the s75 claim. 
This was because any breach of contact in relation  to the holiday experience was by 
Silversea who were  not a party to the card transaction. The investigator concluded that she 
couldnt ask Lloyds to do any more.
Ref: DRN49122332Mr L didnt agree and said in summary that a chargeback should have been considered and 
may have  been  successful as he was aware of the issues with a s75 claim at the time which 
is why he wanted  a chargeback to be considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it might be helpful if I deal with the chargeback and s75 as two separate issues. I dont 
think it is necessary for me to set out all of the problems  that Mr L had on his holiday. I agree 
with him that it wasnt what  Silverseas  publicity had led him to believe he would experience.  
It doesnt appear to be disputed  that Silversea did not provide Mr L with a satisfactory cruise 
experience in line with what Mr L had paid for. Mr L has tried to resolve  the matter with 
Silversea directly but isnt happy with the resolution offered so he has turned to his credit  
provider and asked  for a refund under either the chargeback  scheme or under s75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Chargeback.
Chargeback lets you ask your card provider to reverse a transaction. Its not a legal right but 
is a scheme to which participating banks subscribe. Chargeback can apply if goods are 
damaged, not as described or havent  been  delivered. The main  requirement for getting your 
money back through chargeback is evidence  that theres been a breach of contract. Theres  
a time limit on chargeback claims  usually  120 days from when you became aware  of the 
breach of contract.
In this case, Mr L used  the services of a travel agent  to book the cruise. The terms of the 
contract between Mr L and the travel agent  were  that Mr L would pay the travel agent who 
would in turn book  his cruise and transfer the money  to Silversea. Mr L didnt have a contract 
with Silversea (he would only have had a contract with Silversea if he had
booked his cruise  with it directly and paid it with his card).
Looking at whether  a chargeback claim could  have succeeded against  the travel  agent I 
have looked at whether there  was any breach  of contract by the travel  agent. The 
contractual arrangement was to book  the cruise and transfer  the money to Silversea which is 
what happened. The agent isnt responsible,  under the contract  it had with Mr L, for the 
satisfactory quality of the cruise.
A chargeback claim cant be made unless theres a contract between  the cardholder  and the 
business. In this case, the travel agent has broken  the contractual chain between  Mr L and 
Silversea.
Mr L gives an example of a washing machine bought from a retailer which doesnt work. He 
says that in his case the travel agent  is the retailer and is just as responsible  for the faults. I 
do understand the point that Mr L is trying  to make but that contractual relationship  is 
different. There is a direct financial  link between the provider  of the washing machine and 
the customer. In this case there  is a third party between the supplier and the consumer 
which breaks the link. In these circumstances the chargeback scheme doesnt allow  for a 
dispute about the quality  of the service, only whether the service has been provided.
Ref: DRN49122333I do appreciate how disappointing and frustrating  this is for Mr L but I agree with the 
investigator and Lloyds that even if a chargeback claim  had been  raised  it would not have 
been successful  because of the contractual arrangements.     
Section 75
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  sets out that a provider  of credit can also be 
held responsible as well as the supplier if goods  or services arent  of satisfactory quality.
The investigator originally  considered that the travel agent was responsible  for the cruise  on 
the basis that it had arranged  a package holiday.  Under package travel  regulations  that 
came into force in July 2018 then a travel agent may be responsible for the whole of the 
package. However  these  regulations didnt  apply to Mr Ls booking and further enquiries with 
the travel  agent  confirmed  that no package was arranged.
So for the same reasons as set out above  in relation to the chargeback claim, the creditor- 
debtor-supplier chain is broken and there is no breach of the travel  agents part of the 
contract to book the cruise and pass the money to Silversea.
I dont doubt that Mr L did not have the holiday  he was entitled to expect but for the reasons I 
have outlined, I am unable to say that Lloyds  did anything wrong in terms of the handling of 
his chargeback and s75 claims for a refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4912233