K820x#14complaint
Mr R says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in October  2001  when Mr R applied  for a 
credit card at a NatWest  branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Mr R mainly complains  that as he had sick pay he didnt PPI  and he said if the costs 
versus benefits and the policys optional nature had been made clear, then he wouldve 
declined the policy.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
I think NatWest  made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because  the application form he signed  is ticked to show that he wanted to add on 
PPI. 
So, I think its likely he decided at the time that PPI would be useful and he chose to add it to 
his credit card. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it still had to make sure that it gave  Mr R enough information to make  a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for accident and sickness. It wouldve also 
covered Mr R if he lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of work. As Mr R doesnt appear to 
have been entitled to any sick pay from his employer at the time, and he said he had no 
other way of making  the monthly  repayments if he wasnt able to work, I think  he couldve 
benefitted from having PPI.
Its possible  some information NatWest gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But I dont think  having  
more information  about what the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr R as 
this didnt affect him.  
I dont think NatWest properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might  pay out 
if Mr R made  a claim. But Mr R chose to take out the policy  when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it. And it seems  to have been affordable for him at the time  he 
couldve cancelled it at no extra cost if his circumstances changed.  
Ref: DRN45294572Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr R wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr R.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R 
because: 
National Westminster Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr R about that. Because  
National Westminster Bank Plc didnt  tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, National Westminster Bank  Plc has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4529457