K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says better  checks  by 
TFS would have shown he was unable to afford  the loan.
background
Mr M took out one loan with TFS on 27 October  2016. The loan was for £3,000  and was due 
to repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £184.38.  Mr M fully repaid the loan in October 2018 in 
line with the loan agreement.
Mr M complained to TFS saying it lent to him when he couldnt afford it and had it taken its 
checks further it would have found  that Mr M couldnt afford  the loan. TFS didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint, it said that it took sufficient steps to check that the loan was affordable  for 
Mr M and based on those checks,  it didnt lend irresponsibly.
Unhappy with the response, Mr M referred his complaint to this service  where  it was looked 
at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought that TFS should have taken its checks  
further before lending  to Mr M and had it done so, its likely  to have found that he couldnt  
afford the loan, and so she recommended that the complaint should  be upheld.
As TFS disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing without 
borrowing further and without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid.
TFS says it searched Mr Ms credit  file and has provided results of its search. From  what I 
can see Mr M had about seven defaults recorded on his file within the last six years.  The file 
also showed that Mr M has a home credit account which he was paying £121 towards.
TFS also asked  Mr M about his income and it saw a payslip  from Mr M. Mr M declared  his 
income as £2,259.55 and TFS says it worked out the income it used for Mr Ms loan by 
working out the year to date amount, less tax and national insurance divided by the number 
of payments received in the tax year. Although TFS hasnt told us what  exact income 
amount it used.
Mr M declared that he had dependents and his living costs were  as follows; housing costs - 
£750, council  tax - £104, Electricity - £100, phone - £80, clothing - £50, home credit £121, 
Ref: DRN44511462childcare - £403. Based on this TFS worked  out that Mr M had a disposable  income of 
£321.17 after repaying the loan.
I think that given  the length of the commitment of this loan and the adverse information TFS 
saw on Mr Ms credit  file, it should  have  taken its checks further  to try to understand more 
about Mr Ms expenses and verifying  some of the information hed provided  around this. 
I appreciate TFS point  that it questioned Mr M about some of his expenses but just like it 
verified his income  by requesting payslips,  it should have been looking to verify  some of his 
declared expenses  too and gain a clear picture  of Mr Ms actual financial circumstances.
Mr M has provided a copy of his bank  statement from the time of the loan which  Ive used  to 
understand his financial  circumstances when  the loan was approved. From what I can see, 
Mr Ms income was around £2,056. The regular expense I can make out were around £770.  
I can also see that he was making monthly  repayments to another  high cost credit provider 
of £185.45 per month and was regularly paying  overdraft charges  of around £36. Mr M 
would also have had other living costs like transport, utility and clothing.
Mr Ms bank statement also show that Mr M spent around £580 on gambling  transactions.  
This is more  that 25% of his income  and represents  a significant portion of his income. I 
think that had TFS taken  its checks further its likely to have  found  that Mr M couldnt repay 
this loan without  suffering  an adverse  effect  in his finances and in those circumstances, it 
shouldnt have lent to him and it needs  to put things right.
Putting things  right  what  TFS needs to do
To put things right for Mr M, TFS should:
refund all interest  and charges applied  to all the loan.
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above from the date they were paid, if they 
were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of these 
loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require TFS Loans  Limited  to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4451146