K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains, in summary,  that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do enough to help him recover 
the money he had paid to a binary options  trading platform using his HSBC  VISA  debit card.  
Background
After being cold called by a broker offering binary  options investment trading with an entity, 
W Ltd, Mr D made five payments to them  totalling  £4,590 between March 2017 and May 
2017. Mr D was given  access to a trading platform where he saw his profits  grow  but when 
he tried to withdraw funds W Ltd didnt allow him to. His trading platform was moved to a 
new entity (P Ltd) and during the move,  he said he lost several of his trading options. Mr D 
complained but didnt  receive a reply  and P Ltd subsequently closed his trading account.  
Mr D contacted  HSBC to help him recover his funds through the VISA chargeback  scheme. 
HSBC processed chargeback claims which were  defended by P Ltd. HSBC made  further 
chargeback attempts and these too were defended. HSBC  decided  not to pursue  Mr Ds 
claims any further through the chargeback process. Mr D referred his complaint to this 
service as he was unhappy  with HSBCs decision. 
One of our investigators looked into things and initially felt HSBC  could have taken Mr Ds 
claims further through the VISA  chargeback scheme because of the inconsistencies  in the 
defence submissions.  He later changed  his view after reviewing further information from 
VISA. Based  on this new information,  he didnt feel a pursual of Mr Ds chargeback claims 
had any prospect  of success. Mr D disagreed and said HSBC  should have taken his claims 
further and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. The complaint has therefore  
been referred to me for review and determination.  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont  uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The chargeback  process is relevant  here. A chargeback is the process by which  payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchant acquirers, under the 
relevant scheme rules. What this means is that HSBC can in certain circumstances ask for a 
payment Mr D made to be refunded. One of those circumstances is where the goods or 
services arent supplied or as described  by the merchant Mr D paid. 
A chargeback  isnt guaranteed  to result  in a refund. There  needs  to be a right to a 
chargeback under the scheme  rules.  And under  those rules the merchant can defend  a 
chargeback claim if it doesnt agree with the request. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to process  a chargeback when a consumer asks for 
one. But we would consider it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted  where the 
rights exist and there is some  prospect of success.  Its important to note that VISA - as the 
scheme provider - sets the rules and requirements for claims under its chargeback scheme, 
not HSBC.
HSBC processed chargebacks under  a misrepresentation reason code.  P Ltds bank 
defended the claims and HSBC decided to make further attempts at recovery at VISAs  pre-
arbitration stage. The claims were defended again. Ive thought  about  whether this was 
Ref: DRN47353642reasonable and whether  HSBC  should have  taken Mr Ds claim to VISAs final stage of 
arbitration - this is where VISA reviews the submissions independently and makes a decision 
in favour of the card issuer (HSBC) or the merchant  acquirer (P Ltds bank).  Before VISA  
can decide  on liability, it would first need to determine whether the chargeback claim was 
valid, in doing so, it would check whether the evidence  required of the particular reason  
code used was provided.
VISA expanded  its rules for binary  options and investment trading  complaints in October 
2017 to cover scenarios  where cardholders  were prevented from withdrawing their available  
balances. But this expansion was not applied retrospectively. Prior to October  2017, 
chargeback claims for investment-related disputes  were an option but Mr D would have been  
required to provide some  specific evidence which included:  written evidence  guaranteeing  
an amount of profit or return he was due to receive. I note our investigator asked Mr D if he 
had any written evidence  and he explained  he did not as most  of the misrepresentations 
happened over the phone. 
I dont dispute Mr Ds version of events,  or that he likely  fell victim to a binary options 
investment scam. And even though Mr D raised  valid concerns about  the conduct  of W Ltd 
and P Ltd, these concerns wouldnt have impacted his prospect of success through  the VISA  
chargeback scheme  because of its requirement  of some specific  evidence which Mr D didnt 
have. Should HSBC  have  escalated the claim to VISAs final stage of arbitration,  I think VISA  
would have decided  in favour of P Ltds bank and determined the claim was invalid because  
HSBC (acting on behalf of Mr D) didnt supply  the specific evidence it required.  I think HSBC  
tried to assist  Mr D as far as it could by attempting chargeback claims. And whilst I know  this 
will be disappointing for Mr D, I do not agree that HSBC not pursuing his claims further was 
unfair or unreasonable because it did not have the evidence required to do so. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  explained, my Final Decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4735364