K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy Union Reiseversicherung AG declined to pay for dental treatment in the 
UK, following an accident abroad. 
background
Miss G had a backpacker and long stay travel insurance policy with URV. In September 
2018, she travelled  abroad and was unfortunately involved  in a serious accident involving a 
motor vehicle. Amongst  other injuries,  Miss G experienced complex maxillofacial injuries and 
had several teeth removed.
URV covered Miss Gs medical expenses  whilst  she was abroad and arranged  for her to be 
repatriated home. As her mouth  needed time to heal,  Miss G was given a temporary denture  
and told she would need restorative treatment in around six months time. Miss G is unhappy 
as now shes returned to the UK, URV have declined to cover the cost of her additional 
treatment. Shes also explained that the NHS has declined to provide her with implants,  so 
shes been left with a temporary  denture.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. She said URV applied  their policy 
terms fairly,  so she didnt think they did anything wrong by declining to provide the additional 
cover. However, she did say URV  could have  done more to manage Miss G expectations  about  
this, whilst she was abroad. She noted that URV had offered Miss G £50 compensation to say 
sorry, so she concluded  this was a reasonable resolution to the complaint.
URV agreed  with our investigators  opinion but Miss G didnt. She said she didnt think  shed 
been treated fairly, and she would have  stayed abroad, if shed known she wouldnt be 
covered for her treatment in the UK. She also highlighted the impact of this issue on her 
mental health. 
Whilst our investigator empathised with Miss G her comments didnt change her opinion, so 
Ive considered the complaint afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear about Miss Gs accident  and the serious injuries she experienced as a 
result of it. Miss G will be disappointed to hear that Im not upholding her complaint. Ill now 
explain why. 
how was URV required  to consider the claim?
Under the relevant rules  and appropriate  industry  guidelines, URV was required to consider
Miss Gs claim promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
Ive reviewed the policy wording and note that they say:
your policy is intended  to cover immediate  treatment in an emergency situation
Ref: DRN44061402And
We will pay for 
customary and reasonable fees or charges to be paid outside your home  country for 
medical, surgical, hospital nursing  home or nursing  services 
There is also a general exclusion  that says: 
We wont pay for 
Any costs  incurred before  departure (except under section A) or after you return home.
I think the above terms make it sufficiently  clear, that only urgent emergency  treatment  is 
covered whilst you are away from home.  I appreciate the treatment  Miss Gs is claiming for, 
relates to the accident she experienced whist she was abroad.  But there is no cover for this 
available under the policy.
URV also wasnt required to cover an extended  stay abroad,  to allow for the restorative 
treatment to take place.  URV was required to arrange for Miss G to return  home and cover 
her emergency medical expenses, and there isnt any dispute  that this took place  here. In 
any event, as mentioned  above, the restorative  treatment Miss G needs isnt emergency 
treatment, so it wouldnt have been  covered by URV regardless of whether  Miss G had 
returned home.
Im aware Miss G believes  the above  policy terms are unfair, but I disagree. Terms of this 
nature arent unusual  in travel insurance policies, as they are often designed to only provide 
medical cover whilst their policy holders are away from home. I appreciate  Miss G has said 
her options  under the NHS are limited but this doesnt mean  URV  should be required to pay 
for treatment the policy doesnt cover. 
Whilst I empathise with Miss G and appreciate the difficult circumstances, she now finds  
herself in, I dont think URV applied the policy terms unreasonably  or unfairly.  This means,  I 
wont be asking URV to do anything else in relation to the claim.
did URV provide  accurate information?
Miss G has said she was told her treatment would be covered in the UK and shes  
highlighted an email,  she received on 8 October 2018 to support this. 
The email  says: 
Thank your for your email.  All invoice (sic) from hospital will be forward  to us. If 
necessary more dental treatment will be carried (sic) once back in the uk. 
I dont agree this email  suggests URV was prepared to provide cover  in the UK, but I do 
think it is unclear and I understand why it may have caused confusion.
Miss G has also said she was told she would  be covered during a telephone conversation,  
but no call recordings in relation to this are available. The telephone log also doesnt clarify  
things so I cant safely conclude what was said. Whilst it is disappointing that the phone calls 
arent available Im not persuaded,  based on the available evidence, that URV committed  to 
covering the costs of dental work in the UK during a phone call. 
Ref: DRN44061403URV has offered  Miss G £50, to say sorry for this poor communication and I think this is a 
reasonable resolution to this issue. If Miss G would now like to accept this offer, she should  
contact URV  directly to arrange this. 
Im aware Miss G feels this amount  is an insult given  the cost of the private dental treatment 
she requires. But this compensation  isnt meant  to replace the cost of her treatment.  Instead,  
it reflects, the confusion  caused by URVs poor communication and I think  £50 is a fair 
amount for this.
Miss G has said she would  have acted differently had she been  given clearer  information, 
but for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think this is likely. I also dont doubt  that        
Miss Gs accident and uncertainty surrounding her future treatment has unfortunately 
affected her mental  health, but I cant  fairly attribute this to URV.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406140