K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2001. Mr J says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out via a postal application.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr J disagreed with these findings. He has stated that he was not aware the policy had been 
added to his credit card. In particular, he has questioned  whether  it was him who ticked the 
box requesting that PPI be added to the card.  In Mr Js opinion, the tick selecting PPI differs  
to the other tick on the application form, casting  doubt on whether  this was a tick that he 
made.
Mr J has also stated that Halifax did not provide sufficiently clear information  on the 
application form about the PPI for him to make  an informed  choice about  taking out the 
policy. With regard to the fact that the policy was cancelled  a few years  after it was taken 
out, Mr J does not recall  requesting this. However he has questioned what records  Bank of 
Scotland has about the policy cancellation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
I have decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  to Mr J that he didnt have 
to take out the PPI, and he chose  to take it out. I have carefully considered  Mr Js 
recollections about the sale.  However,  I am mindful  that the sale occurred some  years 
ago, in my view making it more difficult to recall in detail.
On the credit card application, there was a box available to elect to take out PPI. On the 
form that Mr J signed, the PPI box had a tick in it. I have noted Mr Js comments that in 
his view, this tick differs  to another tick that is on the application form. However, on 
balance in my view there is not sufficiently persuasive evidence  to suggest that the tick 
requesting PPI was made by someone  other  than Mr J. In my view it is more  likely  that 
Mr J did tick the PPI box when  he completed  and returned  the postal application.
 Halifax didnt recommended the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check  that it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure that Mr J got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
 As Mr J has himself  suggested, in my view Halifax didnt give him sufficiently clear 
information about the policy when  he applied for it. However he chose to take it out, so it 
looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
Ref: DRN45577302PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if he wasnt working. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. Overall my view is that better information about the PPI would 
not have put Mr J off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said about  the sale, including what  he has said about 
the circumstances that led to him cancelling the policy a few years after he took it out. 
Although there is limited  evidence available relating to what happened  when the policy was 
cancelled, for the reasons explained above  my view on balance is that Mr J did elect to take 
out the policy when he initially applied for the credit  card. In conclusion, although I 
appreciate Mr J will be disappointed with my findings, my view is that this policy was not mis-
sold.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr J paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr J back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr J now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4557730