K821x#15complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the amount  of compensation HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) has 
offered to pay to him for a mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  connected 
with his mortgages.
background
In March 2005 Mr J and his partner, who I shall refer to as Miss A, took out a joint mortgage  
(ending 4604) on a property. At the same time they took out a PPI policy also in joint names. 
In 2006 Mr J and Miss A split up and Mr J took out a new mortgage on the property, ending  
5718, solely in his name. The PPI policy was not amended  and remained in joint names, 
although Miss A was no longer on the mortgage.  The payments for the PPI were made 
solely by Mr J from his bank account.
Mr J has complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Miss As whereabouts are unknown  so she 
is not a party  to the complaint. HSBC  upheld Mr Js complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and 
offered to pay Mr J 50% of the total compensation for the mis-sold PPI. It said the other  50% 
should go to Miss A. The policy  ran from March 2005 to September 2007.
Mr J was unhappy with the offer. He agreed the PPI costs should  be split 50/50 for the 
period from March 2005 to June 2006 when Miss A was jointly responsible for the mortgage. 
However from the time Miss As name  was removed from the mortgage  in 2006 to 
October 2007, when  the PPI was cancelled,  he thinks  he should  be refunded the full costs of 
the PPI.
Our adjudicator agreed with this approach, a partial  50/50 split to June 2006  and then Mr J 
getting the full costs  paid after that for the PPI. He said in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint it would be a fair outcome.
HSBC didnt agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has agreed to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold Im not looking at 
how the policy was sold to Mr J and Miss A in 2005. In this decision I am only considering  
what is a fair and reasonable outcome for payment  of the compensation that is due for the 
mis-sold PPI.
In response to the adjudicators recommendation, HSBC has referred to a general approach  
that is often taken in cases  where there  joint mortgages and/or PPI policies are involved.  
HSBC also states  that although the adjudicators view is put forward  as fair, the view does 
not follow the general approach it referred  to for joint PPI policies and/or joint mortgages.  
HSBC implies that the general approach should  be always  used, even if not fair.
I would refer HSBC  to the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook and the DISP  Rules,  in 
particular DISP Rule 3.6.1. This states  that the ombudsman service  will determine a 
complaint by reference to what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN48033002 
The website of the financial ombudsman also states  that our decisions are based on what 
we believe is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of each case. 
I would confirm that each case has to be considered on its particular facts. And whilst there 
may be a general  approach that often may be considered fair in a particular type of 
complaint, that approach is not a required legal process. And if applying a general approach  
to the individual circumstances of a case makes the outcome unfair, then that approach  
should not be used.
I have considered the facts of this case in two parts, firstly looking at the period from March  
2005 to mid-2006. During  this time Mr J and Miss A held the mortgage  jointly  and were both 
named on the PPI policy. So during this time they both were jointly liable for repaying the 
mortgage and would  therefore  benefit  if a claim had been made on the PPI policy.   Mr J and 
HSBC agree that the compensation due to be paid for the PPI for this period should  be split 
equally between Mr J and Miss A. I agree that is a fair approach.
Looking at the period from June 2006 to September 2007, Miss A was no longer responsible  
for the mortgage.  In 2006 Mr J remained in the same property and took out a new mortgage, 
in his sole name, to replace the joint mortgage. When Miss A was removed from the 
mortgage she had no insurable interest for the policy to cover in relation to the mortgage and 
could obtain no benefit from the PPI.  But no changes were  made to the policy  and Mr J 
continued to pay from his account  the full premiums  for the PPI.
If Miss A had been  contactable and joined as a party to this complaint, based on the 
evidence I have seen,  I would be saying she should  get 50% of the compensation due for 
the period from March  2005 to mid-2006 and Mr J should get the other 50%. Then  Mr J 
should get 100% of the compensation due for the mis-sold PPI from June 2006  to 2007.
I can see no reason why it is not fair and reasonable to take that approach  even though 
Miss A is not a party  to the complaint.  If Miss A were  at a future date to contact HSBC 
claiming the PPI was mis-sold, then it has retained what  seems  to be her fair share of the 
compensation for the period she was a party  to the mortgage.
HSBC has argued that under the terms and conditions of the policy it was Mr Js duty to 
provide complete and accurate information  to the product provider  when the policy was 
taken out and throughout the life of the policy. It says as Mr J didnt  do this, the policy was 
kept in joint names,  and it was down to him that the policy wasnt amended  to his name only.  
But that doesnt alter the fact that Mr J paid the premiums during a time when he was the 
only person holding the mortgage that the policy was taken out to cover. So he should get 
the premiums he paid back as in this case it is clear he was the only beneficiary of the policy 
after June 2006.
It is unclear if Mr J was made  fully aware of the full terms  and conditions  of the policy  when it 
was sold. Mr J said when bringing his complaint that he thought  the PPI was a requirement  
of getting the mortgage, otherwise, as it was unsuitable for him, he wouldnt have taken it 
out. I think it unlikely  he was made aware  of the full terms and conditions and was unaware  
of the requirement  regarding  changes  being  notified  to the product provider. I also note that 
in the Introduction and important notes of the terms  and conditions  it says any HSBC  
branch can be contacted  with questions.
Ref: DRN48033003When Mr J took out the new mortgage in his own name with HSBC  in 2006, he clearly did 
contact the business. HSBC  sold this PPI product to Mr J and Miss A and HSBC  are stated 
in the first paragraphs  of the terms and conditions to be an agent  of the product provider 
acting on behalf  of Mr J and Miss A for the Repayment Protector. 
When Mr J re-mortgaged I think it would have been reasonable for HSBC  to consider the 
PPI it had sold to Mr J that had been  taken out with the first mortgage. HSBC  could have 
then either  referred  the matter to the provider to change the policy  into Mr Js name  or 
referred Mr J to the terms and conditions  about who to contact to make any changes.  If this 
had happened  then there would be no dispute as to who should be paid the compensation 
for the period from 2006 to 2007.
In summary,  I have taken  into account all relevant  law and regulations and reached my 
decision on the basis of what  is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint. That is the basis of the approach of the financial ombudsman service. And I think 
it is fair and reasonable that HSBC  pays 50% of the compensation due for the period from 
March 2005 to June 2006 to Mr J. Then  also pays 100% of the compensation due from 
June 2006 to September 2007 to Mr J.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out I think HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the compensation in the 
proportions I have  indicated to Mr J. The 50% of the compensation for the period from March 
2005 to June 2006 that is not paid to Mr J should  be retained for settlement of any claim 
Miss A may bring for mis-sold PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4803300