K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. 
Neither Mrs L or Barclays sent me any new evidence to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN43690142my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that it 
has already done  this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN43690143copy  of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 2008. 
Mrs L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold this complaint  because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she may not remember this.
I say this because Ive considered  what we know more widely about how Barclays sold PPI 
online around the time this policy was taken out. Ive not seen strong evidence that they didnt 
follow their normal sales process and I think its more  likely than not that Barclays presented 
PPI as optional before Mrs L chose to take it out. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
This policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs). I dont think  that 
Barclays gave Mrs L good enough information about  this exclusion or sufficiently drew it to 
her attention - based  on the information shed likely to have seen when completing her online 
application. For example,  the specific terms were in amongst other text which, in my opinion 
Mrs L could quite easily  have overlooked.
Ive gone on to think  about whether or not Mrs L would have  made a different decision about  
taking PPI if she been  given  all of the information about  the policy   as she had a PEMC at 
the time of sale. 
Mrs L was diagnosed with her PEMC many years  before the sale and managed it using 
medication. But given what shes told us about her condition and the limited impact that it 
seems to have had on her life, I dont  think that more or better information  would  have 
changed her decision.  On balance,  I think that Mrs L would have thought  it unlikely that shed 
need time off work because of her condition at the time of sale given that shes told us:
oshes never had time off work due to her condition; and 
oother than regular  12 month checks she never had to visit the doctor.  
I also think  its more  likely than not that Mrs L would  still have wanted to be covered for all of 
the other reasons  why she might be unwell and unable to work.
Its also possible the other information Barclays gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the other usual  exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN43690144 Which means  Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell 
Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said, but these points dont currently change my decision.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
I do intend  to tell Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) to pay back to Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. But I understand it 
has already  done this, so I dont intend to award  any further compensation. 
If either Mrs L or Barclays Bank UK PLC have anything further to add, they should do so by 23 June 
2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4369014