K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the charges Ald Automotive Limited, trading as Hyundai Contract Hire 
(Ald) have asked him to pay to refurbish a car that he was financing  through  them.
background
Mr H took receipt of a new vehicle  in April 2015. He financed the deal through a three year 
hire agreement and returned the car at the end of the term. But he was disappointed  to 
receive an invoice  from Ald for damage that they asked him to pay for. They said this was to 
return the vehicle  to a satisfactory  standard prior to sale. He says it became clear that Ald 
didnt complete the work as they couldnt  supply  him with a VAT invoice for the work. So he 
didnt think it was fair of them to ask for payment for repairs  that werent completed.
Ald said that theyd chosen  to sell the car without repairing it because  they thought this 
would be more cost effective. They explained  that they were entitled to take this decision. 
They went  on to explain that they used a pricing  matrix to calculate costs and that this 
pricing matrix had been  created by them when they used to do repairs themselves. They  
explained that the costs  they charged  excluded VAT. So they didnt think  theyd done 
anything wrong.
But Mr H disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service where our adjudicator 
provided his opinion. He noted  that the finance  agreement Mr H signed  explained  he would 
need to pay all sums necessary to restore the vehicle to a roadworthy and good condition 
and for the avoidance of doubt this will apply even if Hyundai Contract Hire decides it is 
not cost effective to repair the vehicle.  And he explained that Mr H had been informed in 
advance that the condition  of the vehicle would  be assessed against the industry guidelines  
for fair wear and tear provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). So he thought  Ald were within their rights  to levy refurbishment charges 
irrespective of whether  they completed  those  repairs or not.
But Mr H disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The finance  agreement Mr H signed allowed Ald to apply charges if the vehicle  was not 
returned in a good condition  but fair wear and tear was allowed. The condition of the car 
was to be assessed against the industry guidelines provided by the BVRLA.
Ref: DRN44707952There were three refurbishment charges and Ive looked at the photographic  evidence 
supplied. Id agree that in each case the ruler thats shown in the pictures demonstrates  that 
the dents in the panels are larger than that allowed under the BVRLA guidance i.e. theyre all 
bigger than 10mm.  So I think  Ald were fair to charge for them.
Those charges  could  be applied whether the car was repaired or not as the contract said so. 
It said:
The customer will pay all sums necessary to restore the vehicle to a roadworthy and good 
conditioneven if Hyundai  Contract Hire decides  it is not cost effective to repair  the vehicle
Ald have explained that they didnt repair the vehicle and Ive looked at the charges they 
applied. Theyve  explained that these charges are VAT free and Ive considered whether 
they are fair. They seem  broadly in line with other charges that Ive seen made by their 
competitors in similar circumstances and Im therefore persuaded theyre reasonable and not 
excessive.
So overall, I dont  think Ald need to take any further  action here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4470795