K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a conditional sale agreement for a car by Pendragon 
Finance and Insurance Services Limited.  
background 
In November 2019 Mr T acquired a used car via a five year conditional sale agreement  with 
Pendragon Finance. He says that he told the salesperson that his intention  was to pay off 
the agreement  in full within a couple of months and asked how much  extra  he would have to 
pay in interest. Mr T says the salesperson told him it should only cost between  £20 to £30 
per month.  
Mr T says that when he subsequently asked about the cost of settling the agreement  early 
he was told he would  need to pay around £280  to cover the interest on the loan. He 
complained to Pendragon  Finance and said the agreement had been mis-sold to him and he 
had been misled by the salesperson. 
Pendragon Finance didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said the salesperson was no longer at 
the dealership  and it didnt know what had been  said at the time Mr T had entered  into the 
agreement. However,  the agreement itself did clearly set out the rate of interest being 
charged and, that if it was settled early, 56 days of interest  would be payable. It said that it 
was Mr Ts responsibility to read the agreement. 
Mr T was unhappy at Pendragons response  and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should  be upheld. 
Our investigator said that Pendragon Finance had acted in accordance with the agreements 
terms and conditions in charging £280 in interest when hed settled the finance early. And 
that she thought  it more  likely than not that, if Mr T had been aware of how much he would 
have to pay in interest,  he would  have still purchased this particular car. This was because 
the car was an exclusive  colour that he could not find elsewhere and it was this exclusivity 
which had been  the attraction for Mr T. 
Our investigator also said that the number of days interest chargeable on early settlement of 
a financial agreement are set by The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 
and so Pendragon Finance hadnt acted  unfairly  in charging the interest  that it had. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view saying that had he known the true cost of the 
additional interest he was going  to be charged he wouldnt have entered  into the agreement. 
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says he isnt complaining about  the finance  provider, but about the way he was dealt 
with by the dealership. However, under consumer law, finance companies  may be liable for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract made by the supplier. Here Mr T is complaining 
that the amount of interest  he would have to pay if he terminated  the conditional sales 
Ref: DRN46128922agreement was misrepresented  to him by the salesperson. This means he can raise his 
complaint against  Pendragon Finance.
I dont know what exactly was said between  Mr T and the salesperson  when he visited  the 
dealership to look at a particular car. And where  evidence is missing or contradictory then I 
have to decide what I think is the most likely thing to have happened.
Mr T says that he was expecting to receive a lump  sum and knew that he would be able to 
clear any financial agreement for a car early. He says he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
agreement when he did if hed know  the true amount of additional interest he would have to 
pay. He says that the agreement was mis-sold  to him.
I need to be satisfied that the salesperson probably told Mr T something that wasn't 
true, and that this untrue statement on its own induced him to take out this conditional 
sale agreement.  Mr T says that the salesperson said he shouldnt  have to pay more  than 
£30per month interest,  and so he was expecting  to pay around £200  less than he was 
actually charged.
Taking into account the evidence I accept Mr Ts intention was always to pay off the 
agreement, and I accept that it's likely there was an untrue statement by the 
salesperson as to the amount of interest that would be payable when settling the 
agreement early.  And I'm reasonably sure that the statement from the salesperson, 
that the additional interest would have been around £30 per month, would have 
been  an important factor in Mr T taking out the hire purchase agreement. But I'm not 
sure it was the only one.
This is because  Mr T wanted  this particular  car due to its unusual  colour.  He says that he 
couldnt  get the same  car from elsewhere,  and Ive seen  that he wasnt  in a position  to 
purchase  the car outright  when  he visited  the dealership.  If he waited  for the lump  sum to 
arrive  then it would  be possible  the car would  have  been  sold to someone  else.  Mr T was 
prepared  to take out a credit  agreement  and pay extra  in interest  to acquire  the car at the 
time he saw it. And while  I accept  the salesperson  underestimated  the amount  of interest  
that would  be payable  they didnt  provide  Mr T with an exact  figure  and provided  
estimates  only.  Ive also seen  in one letter  sent from Pendragon,  acknowledging  Mr Ts 
complaint  which  says he reported  that he was told the interest  would  cost £40 to £60 per 
month.   
So, I think  its reasonable  to say that although  Mr T wasnt  expecting  to be charged  as 
much  as he was he knew  there  would  be an additional  expense  involved  in taking  out the 
agreement.  And that its more  likely  than not that Mr T would  have  entered  into the 
agreement  if hed known  how much  the interest  charge  would  have  been.
I appreciate  Mr T has been  disappointed  by the service  he says he received  from the 
dealership.  Hes raised  some  other  issues  about  the car including  that it had a dent.  
However,  I cant  look at these  because  if Mr T has concerns  about  the quality  of the car 
then he will need  to make  a separate  complaint  about  that to Pendragon  as it has a right 
to investigate  the matter  first. 
For the reasons  given  above  Im not upholding  Mr Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN46128923my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4612892