K820x#14complaint
Mr B believes that the default recorded against him by Experian Limited is unfair  and in 
breach of the relevant  guidance. Hed now like it removed.
background
Mr B says hes been in dispute with his water  company since  2013  with the result its now 
recorded a default against him. But he says under Principle 7 of the water  companies CAIS 
reporting guidance (which this company had signed up to) a default shouldnt  be reported  if 
theres an ongoing dispute.  For that reason he feels Experian is wrong to continue  to report  
the default and it should  be removed.
Hes also unhappy at the way the defaults been recorded. He says the dispute relates to 
various bills at different  properties over several  years. But the sums  have been brought  
together and are being shown as one larger amount incurred  over a six month period. He 
feels this is unfair and inaccurate  and having a negative  impact on his credit rating. Hed like 
the defaults removed and compensation for whats happened.
Experian didnt  agree it had done  anything wrong.  It said its role was to report on information 
provided to it by third parties. If the consumer felt the information was incorrect it could 
challenge it with the provider-  as it had in Mr Bs case- but it couldnt change  it of its own 
accord. In this case the utility company hadnt  agreed to remove the default so it couldnt 
delete it from Mr Bs record. It felt Mr B need to challenge the accuracy of the information 
with the utility company or ask for a Notice of Correction to be put on his file to show he was 
disputing the default recorded  against him.
With regard to the impact  this might have on Mr Bs ability to get credit,  Experian  said 
lenders didnt see the credit scores but used their own criteria  to decide whether to offer 
credit, and on what terms. The credit score  was simply an indication of an individuals  credit  
rating at any one time but it didnt guarantee  that any application they made would or would 
not be accepted. For that reason it didnt agree this would have had a negative impact.
Our investigator said Experian relied on information  provided to it so it couldnt simply 
change the information reported.  In this case it had gone back  to query the information  but 
the utility company said it was correct so it couldnt delete. Shed seen Mr B felt the default 
shouldnt have been reported because  it was in breach of the agreed guidance and that 
Experian should have taken this into account  in deciding whether to continue to report  it. But 
although the utility company had started  legal action some  tie ago it seemed this had 
stopped and there was nothing to show there was on ongoing dispute.  On that basis she 
couldnt say Experian wasnt following the guidance.
If Mr B felt there was an ongoing dispute-and that the information being  reported  was wrong 
then he needed  to go back to the utility company and get that resolved.  But until then she 
couldnt agree Experian  was wrong  to record and report on the information  it had been  sent.
Mr B disagreed and said in summary:
The amounts  in dispute  related to six different  accounts going back  to 2012 and 
should be shown  as such on his credit file;
Ref: DRN48785302As the data processor  Experian had responsibility to ensure  the information  recorded 
was correct. In this case hed shown the information recorded was inaccurate  and 
misleading and amounted to a breach of the Data Protection Act 2018/ GDPR 
regulations. This was unfair and illegal and Experian  should remove it immediately.
Hed been refused  loans  and credit cards as a result of this or if credit  was offered, it 
was at very high rates.  He wanted compensation for this;
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking 
Experian to remove  the information as Ill now explain.
Experian is a credit reporting agency,  that is it reports  on information  provided to it but its 
not responsible  for creating that information.  For that reason if theres an issue  with the 
information reported then the consumer will usually need to resolve this direct  with the 
business that provided the information as Experian cant change  it without their agreement.
In this case Mr B is objecting to the defaults recorded against him for two reasons: firstly 
because he believes reporting the defaults is a breach of the water companies CAIS  
reporting guidance and secondly, because he considers the way the informations been 
presented is misleading  and inaccurate. Ill look at these in turn.
Breach of guidance
Principle 7 of the water companies CAIS reporting  guidance says
Where the liability or accuracy of a bill that is reported to the credit  bureau is reasonably 
disputed by a customer, no default  will be registered until the dispute  is resolved. The 
dispute will be reported to the credit bureau  in accordance  with the reporting rules set out in 
the data protection regulations.
Its not for me to give legal advice but looking at this guidance I consider its aim is to allow  
the consumer  the opportunity to resolve any dispute with the water company before a default 
is reported. But its fair to say its not intended to be an open ended arrangement and that 
any dispute has to be reasonable.
In this case Experian queried the default  with the water company when Mr B raised his 
concerns. In fact it did do twice. But the water company didnt agree the information was 
incorrect or that it should be removed. 
In addition while Mr Bs been  unhappy with his water bills for some times, it doesnt seem  
theres an active dispute in hand.  Theres no clear complaint process underway and the legal 
proceedings that were started  some time ago appear to have come to an end. 
Ive seen Mr B feels Experian could  have done more but its not for Experian to decide if 
theres a reasonable dispute  in hand or to investigate the issues that gave rise to any 
complaint. Im satisfied  Experian followed up Mr Bs concerns about  the default  with the 
business on two occasions but the business didnt agree to amend it. Ive seen it also put a 
Notice of Correction on his file on 24 September 2017. In the circumstances I dont think 
Experian could  have done much  more and for that reason I dont agree its acting 
unreasonably in continuing  to report the information provided to it.
Ref: DRN48785303Misleading information.
It seems  in this case that the various  amounts  said to be due have been carried forward  and 
combined under Mr Bs current account. I realise  Mr B thinks this is unfair but thats  a 
reporting issue for the water company  that Expedia cant  change.
It is clear Mr B feels  very strongly about the information thats been reported against him by 
his water company.  As has been  said, Experian  cant amend or remove  this without the 
water companys agreement, which in this case isnt available.  For that reason Id advise him 
to raise the issue direct with his water company to see if the dispute can be resolved and the 
information amended.  Until then I cant agree Experian is in a position  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4878530