K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs R bought the policy in 2003 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mrs R was employed  as a replenishment assistant. She has told us she was 
entitled to full pay for at least six months  if she was off work  sick and redundancy pay. She 
also said she had death in service cover  worth two times her yearly salary.  Mrs R initially  told 
us she had no medical conditions at the time of the sale but more recently said she did. 
The policy provided  cover  for disability,  unemployment  and life  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay 10% of Mrs Rs credit card balance in the event  of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost no more than 79p per £100  of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit  card account  closed in 2010.
Mrs Rs representative made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Rs representative said:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mrs R about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs R and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN47600522As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by our adjudicator, it was passed to me for a 
decision. Both parties have seen and had the opportunity to provide their responses  to my 
provisional decision. In it, I set out why I didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. I also 
explained why I considered BOS  offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  fair in all the 
circumstances.
BOS didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs R confirmed she had nothing more  to 
add to it.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement continued to run until 2010.That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin  
judgment, also apply.  I will come back to this later on.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN47600523The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Rs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BOS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mrs R, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  
Mrs R suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Mrs R has not suffered  loss or damage and I propose no award  for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
taking into account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Ref: DRN47600524Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), BOS 
should have disclosed  the commission it received - and if it didnt, what would be fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs mis-sale complaint. I have also considered  the issue of 
non-disclosure of commission  and Ive decided that BOS should  have disclosed the 
commission it received. My findings  are set out below. 
did Mrs R know she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BOS has provided a copy of Mrs Rs signed credit card agreement. It included a separate  
section for PPI and asked  her to mark a box and sign separately if she wanted PPI. The box 
was marked with a X and she signed  in the relevant place.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs R knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
Both BOS and Mrs R agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  BOS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs R. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs R to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
BOS has provided us with a copy of Mrs Rs credit card agreement   showing that PPI had 
been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she would have 
received, including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Rs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs R at the time, I dont think BOS gave Mrs R the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the credit agreement/application form described the 
PPI policy  as providing cover against death,  disability and unemployment. It also informed 
Mrs R that the PPI would  pay 10% of the insured  balance each month for up to 12 months, 
after a waiting period of 14 days.  
The information provided would have given Mrs R a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was BOS responsibility to draw  to Mrs Rs attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to her decision.  
Ref: DRN47600525Im not persuaded BOS did enough to do this. For example,  I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs R, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BOS  adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think BOS  gave  Mrs R sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs R has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either.
what effect did BOS  shortcomings have  on Mrs R? To what extent did Mrs R suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs R. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs R suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs R would have still 
taken out the policy,  had BOS done  things properly.  
Mrs R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs R had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN47600526As Ive found above, Mrs R chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs R thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs R has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs R ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10% of her outstanding balance  this 
was set out on the credit card agreement. But, I accept that BOS didnt make  clear the on-
going cost information. So while Mrs R didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs R 
knew about or ought to have known about  at the start date of the policy  or which  
shed seen a doctor  about in the 12 months  before the start date, unless shed been 
free of symptoms and hadnt consulted a doctor  or received treatment for the 
condition for a two-year period prior to a claim. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs R 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs R from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs R says she had medical  conditions  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had she needed time off 
work because of these  conditions,  I dont think better information  about this exclusion would 
have put her off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  Mrs R says she developed  anxiety and depression  in or around 1991  
thats around 12 years before she bought the PPI. She says she didnt miss any work 
because of the conditions and it seems  they were  treated relatively conservatively. So I dont 
think her state of health would have been  a major  factor  in her decision.
In addition, its possible the conditions wouldnt have been caught by the exclusion clause  in 
any case since theres no indication they had affected Mrs R in any way for several years.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mrs R would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs R would have  
Ref: DRN47600527expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs R needed  to be totally disabled from engaging in or giving 
attention to her profession or occupation.  I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  
she would  have expected to make  a claim. After all, the credit card agreement  says the 
policy provides cover  if unable to work  for at least 14 consecutive  days because  of accident, 
illness or unemployment. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs R would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting I think the policy could provide  a useful benefit in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding her employment benefits  and other means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mrs Rs representatives says the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs R would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs R 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mrs R would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
Ref: DRN47600528circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mrs R compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs R thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BOS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mrs R, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs R and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Mrs Rs complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mrs R to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement  or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights  under 
the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Ref: DRN47600529Mrs R has made a number of representations  about the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mrs R 
said that:
 BOS failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to 
pay claims), and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover; and
 If BOS had told her about those things, she would not have taken out the policy, 
so she should  get back  all the money she paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
 When selling insurance, the relevant insurance codes did not specifically require 
BOS to tell Mrs R about commission or about the claims ratio (nor, for reasons 
Ive already  explained, did the duty of utmost good  faith require that). As the FCA 
said when introducing its rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of 
PPI complaints  in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose 
commission was not in breach of the industry codes and would not  in and of 
itself  have  been  a breach of FCAs Principles  for Businesses.  Those Principles 
include a requirement on businesses  to pay due regard  to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly (albeit as I set out earlier  the Principles are not 
relevant in this case.)
   
 Where a court determines  under  section  140A  that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken 
with any related  agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor because of (among other  
things) anything  done, or not done,  by or on behalf of the creditor, the court has 
a range  of powers available to it under section 140B.  Those powers include 
altering the terms of the credit  agreement or any related  agreement, requiring the 
creditor to repay sums paid by the debtor, and to reduce or discharge  any sums 
payable. 
 The Supreme  Court  considered  whether the non-disclosure of high commission 
levels might produce an unfair  relationship in the case of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission could lead 
to an unfair relationship.
 Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA 
issued rules and guidance to businesses  for the handling  of PPI complaints that 
included a complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is 
contained in DISP  App 3) came  into force  in August 2017  and was preceded  by 
a policy statement  (PS17/03,  issued in March 2017) and two consultation papers 
(CP15/39 and CP16/20).  The respondents to those consultations included 
consumer groups,  businesses, claims management companies and trade 
associations, and the final rules and guidance  took account of their views.
 In PS 17/03,  the FCA said that in publishing this guidance  for firms,  it had used 
[its] regulatory judgement to create  a framework that [it] believe[s]  will reduce 
uncertainty and enable firms to take a fair and consistent approach to handling 
PPI complaints.  This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers at the 
Ref: DRN476005210earliest stage in the complaints process  [Page 6 para 1.8]
 In broad  terms, the FCAs  guidance and rules for businesses handling PPI 
complaints require  businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-
step approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly  speaking, at step 1, the firm 
should first consider whether  the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply  
with FCAs rules or legal requirements. Where failings are identified, the 
business should determine the way the consumer  would  have acted if the breach 
or failing had not occurred  (i.e. whether or not the consumer  would have bought 
the policy)  and then determine appropriate redress  - if any. It is at this step,  for 
instance, where the presumption  in DISP App 3.6.2E  which I have already 
addressed above  may apply.
 Where the business concludes  as BOS did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would have bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, 
whether any failure to disclose  commission and profit share  gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under  section  140A, in which case the business should go on to 
determine the appropriate remedy - if any.
 
 As a starting point,  the FCAs rules and guidance require businesses to presume 
that the failure to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship  where 
the business expected commission  and profit share  to be more  than 50% of the 
cost of the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its 
consultations and policy statement).  Usually, in those circumstances, the FCAs 
rules and guidance require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest. While  this presumption  of an unfair relationship is rebuttable,  I note that 
BOS has not sought to rebut it in Mrs Rs case. In fact, BOS  made  an offer or 
payment to Mrs R in March 2018, calculated in line with the FCAs  guidance.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that BOS didnt tell Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in 
this case, I think its likely a court would determine that the relationship between BOS  and 
Mrs R was unfair under section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs rules require 
BOS to determine appropriate redress in those circumstances, and I have had regard to 
those rules below in deciding what compensation it would be fair to award Mrs R in order to 
remedy that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that BOSs failure to disclose information about the claims ratio also meant 
there was an unfair relationship. But in some  respects, commission  and the claims ratio are 
two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums  is 
required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that BOS  should have told Mrs R about 
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:  
Ref: DRN476005211 the likelihood (in my view) that a court would determine the relationship between 
BOS and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A because it didnt tell her about 
the high levels  of commission and profit share paid in this case; and 
 the regulators complaint handling guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think BOS acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mrs R insofar as it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share paid out of the premiums in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mrs R should get a full refund 
of the premiums she paid to put her in the position  she would have been in if she hadnt 
taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission  and profit share BOS received, or a 
refund of the commission paid above a certain point  for example by taking the approach 
set out in the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been offered by BOS).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mrs R says that she should get a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums she has paid.  In summary, she says that the high level of commission  (and/or the 
low claims ratio)  together  with the policys limitations and exclusions  meant that the PPI 
policy generally represented poor value  for money for her. I should therefore find that Mrs R 
would not have purchased the policy had she known  of the level of commission   and 
accordingly, she should receive  a refund of all the PPI premiums she paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mrs R suggests it does  i.e. 
that she necessarily would not have purchased the policy had the level of commission been 
disclosed to her at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because BOS  did not disclose the high level of 
commission to Mrs R, the court would  necessarily order BOS to return all the premiums  Mrs 
R paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court would necessarily find that Mrs R would  
not have purchased the policy but for BOS failure  to disclose the high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Ref: DRN476005212Mrs R in order to remedy the unfairness  arising from the fact BOS  did not disclose the high 
level of commission to her before she purchased  the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mrs R, I have,  as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs  the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
Ref: DRN476005213We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders. 
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
Ref: DRN476005214difficulty is compounded  by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mrs R is now making   i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
level of commission means that I should find that Mrs R would not have purchased  the policy  
had she known about the level of commission at the time she bought  the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
Ref: DRN476005215 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mrs Rs (involving a regular premium policy) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mrs Rs 
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
Ref: DRN476005216-Mrs R has urged me to conclude  that because BOSs failure  to disclose the high 
level of commission (and/or profit share) made her relationship with BOS  unfair,  I 
must find that she wouldnt have purchased the policy had she known about 
these matters at the time she purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mrs Rs suggestion. As I said above, I recognise it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mrs R at the time of 
the sale, she might have decided not to purchase  the policy.  At the same time, 
however, I am mindful of:
 
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult 
considerations of whether a consumer  would still have  bought the PPI if 
they had been  told about the level of commission; and 
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the 
unfairness caused to Mrs R by the failure  to disclose  the high level of 
commission  I am not, as Mrs R suggests, driven to conclude  that she 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for BOS failure to disclose the 
level of commission.
 
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about 
the non-disclosure of commission requires a firm to refund some of the money 
paid for the PPI policy in order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to 
disclose the level of commission. I also think that refunding  some  of the money 
paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which the court could, in the 
exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B in order to remedy  any 
unfairness. 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for BOS to calculate  
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  and profit share,  and thus return some of the 
money Mrs R paid for her PPI policy. This is because,  in my view, this:
(i) fairly  removed the source of the unfairness;  while: 
(ii) leaving  Mrs R with the policy Ive concluded above she would have taken out 
if BOS had met its obligations when acting as an insurance seller  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mrs R in line with the FCAs guidance at step 2, 
this effectively reduced the overall cost of the policy by an amount equal to the 
excess undisclosed high commission  (and/or profit share) which  is the very 
source of the unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mrs R in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left her with the policy I believe  she would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  her for the unfairness 
caused by the existence  of undisclosed high commission. 
Ref: DRN476005217Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that BOS  offer of payment of an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% of the policy  costs, in 
line with the FCAs  guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Rs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mrs R an amount  equivalent to the commission  and profit share  
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost if it hasnt  already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4760052