K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how esure Insurance Limited  handled and recorded two claims on his 
motor insurance policy  in 2016. 
background
Mr B was involved  in two incidents in 2016. He said esure  shouldnt  have recorded claim one 
and it had made an error that led to claim two being  settled as a fault. He said this had led to 
his premium increasing or being  rejected with new insurers and he wanted  compensation for 
this.
esure agreed that it had made a mistake with claim one. It changed how this was recorded 
on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE)  to opened in error and closed and paid 
Mr B £150  compensation for his inconvenience. esure said it had settled claim two as fault 
on a without prejudice basis as Mr B hadnt co-operated with its defence of the claim. It 
agreed that it had delayed  contacting  the witness Mr B provided details for. But it didnt think  
this had affected the claim outcome.  Nevertheless,  it paid Mr B £100 compensation for this 
error. 
One of our investigators  recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She 
thought esure had dealt with Mr Bs complaint about  claim one fairly  but she couldnt see 
that CUE  had been updated. She thought there  were repeated entries  on it. She thought  
esure should increase its compensation to Mr B by a further £150 for the impact of its delays  
in claim two. But esure said another insurer had made the repeated  entries. It showed that 
the entry for claim one had been  amended. Mr B wanted further compensation for the effect  
of the errors on his premium. 
Another of our investigators then recommended that the complaint should not be upheld and 
that no further redress was required. But Mr B was unhappy with this and so his complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B is frustrated by the trouble hes had in getting affordable 
insurance and the effect this had on his finances. I can see that hes now got cover  and has 
secured a job. 
Mr B showed us a screenshot  provided  by another insurer which  showed  four entries for 
claims made  in 2016. Ive looked at the details of these claims provided by esure.  I can see 
that two of the entries were  made  by another insurer,  not esure. So I cant hold esure  
responsible for this. I can appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr B, but he will have to raise  
this issue with the other insurer directly. The investigator can provide him with further details 
about this.
Ref: DRN42730752I can see that esure agreed  that it shouldnt have  looked into claim one and that it mistakenly 
recorded it on CUE. Its now provided  evidence that the relevant entry  had been amended 
on CUE to claim opened in error  and closed. I think  £150 compensation for the impact of 
this error  was fair and reasonable. This is because its in keeping with the level Id award in 
similar circumstances. So I cant say that esure needs to do anything further for claim one.
Our first investigator thought esure should pay Mr B further compensation for the impact of 
its delay in chasing his witness for a statement, but our second investigator  disagreed.  Ive 
looked at esures  file and I can see that it didnt  follow up the witness for four months. Mr B 
first told it about the witness when  he notified  it of the claim. The witness  didnt respond to 
esures text or phone message  when it later tried to contact  him. Mr B said the witness  had 
provided a statement.  But I cant see that this was possible as esure didnt have the 
witnesss address to send  him a form to complete. 
esure then emailed and wrote to Mr B several  times about the claim. But he didnt respond.  
Mr B said he didnt  receive its correspondence,  but Ive seen copies of emails sent to the 
correct address. Mr B also told us that hed been  unwell at the time. This was unfortunate, 
but I cant reasonably  hold esure  responsible for Mr Bs lack of responses.  
I cant say that the witness would have  responded if esure had contacted him earlier. And I 
cant say that a witness statement would have made a difference in the outcome of the 
claim. This is because  esure finally settled it on a without prejudice basis  as it was unable  to 
defend it without Mr Bs co-operation. 
esure paid Mr B £100 compensation  for not following up the witness earlier.  I think  this is fair 
and reasonable,  as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances. So I dont 
require esure to increase this. 
Mr B wanted  further compensation for the effect  of the claims  recorded  by esure on his 
premiums. But I cant  say that the claims have been  incorrectly recorded by esure. So I cant  
say that its responsible for Mr Bs increased premiums or require it to pay him any 
compensation for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273075