K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  last month.  In that I said I was minded to 
uphold this complaint and order  HSBC  to pay some compensation to Mr and Mrs F. A copy  
of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F say they are content  with my provisional decision. HSBC  says it has nothing 
further to add. So I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The
rate of interest is and 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give
Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42677672COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a mortgage PPI policy taken  out in 1995.  The policy was taken out
during a meeting  when  Mr and Mrs F were applying for a mortgage. The policy  provided Mr
and Mrs F with cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly cost of the
policy was £26.73 and the monthly benefit was £450. This would have been paid for up to 12
months for each claim.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should not be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  when looking at Mr and Mrs Fs case.
I think  the relevant  issues to take into account are the same  as those set out in the note on
our website about our approach to PPI complaints. And the main questions  I need to
consider are:
- If HSBC gave any advice  or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs needs?
- Did HSBC  give Mr and Mrs F the information they needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold then I need to consider whether  Mr
and Mrs F are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  
such as not taking  out the policy   if there hadnt been any problems  with the sale?
Im intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mr and Mrs F havent  made a complaint  about whether or not they were given a choice
about buying the PPI. Instead  they say HSBC  sold them a policy that wasnt suitable for
them  because Mrs F was self employed. They say that means she could never have
claimed on the policy. Furthermore  they say that, although Mr F had been able to claim
when hed been ill, when they wanted to claim after Mrs F had been ill, they were told she
couldnt claim  because she was self employed.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs F was claiming because she couldnt work after being ill  and
he thought that fell under a claim for unemployment, not illness. And he didnt  think the
policy made claiming more  difficult  for self employed  people than it did if you were  an
employee.
I cant  be sure whether  the claim was looked at by HSBC as either  illness or unemployment,
because there  arent any notes from HSBC about what happened when Mr and Mrs F tried
to claim.  But I dont currently think that makes a difference to my provisional decision.  Ill
Ref: DRN42677673explain why.
HSBC doesnt know whether it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F or not. Its possible it
did, given it seems  to have  been sold in a meeting  where  a mortgage and associated
products were being discussed. However, even if it didnt recommend the PPI, it still had to
make sure Mr and Mrs F got the proper information about  the policy so they could decide  if it
suited them. That includes drawing Mr and Mrs Fs attention to any terms that might be
onerous.
I dont think HSBC did this, and I dont think it was suitable for Mrs F at the time of the sale.
Mrs F was self employed. Unlike our adjudicator,  and having carefully looked at the terms
and conditions contained  in the policy, I consider that they would have  meant it was difficult
for her to ever claim under  the unemployment benefit.
In summary the condition in question is that  to claim for unemployment   Mrs F had to
cease trading because of a lack of business, report this to the Inland Revenue and file
closing accounts. I consider that this is a more  onerous set of conditions to meet  than simply
showing that  for example  an employed claimant  had been  made  redundant. I think that if
this had been  drawn to Mr and Mrs Fs attention at the time they probably wouldnt have
bought this PPI policy.
In summary, I do not consider the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F because  of the onerous
terms and conditions,  which  would have limited  Mrs Fs ability to make a successful claim for
unemployment.
what the business should do to put things  right
HSBC should put Mr and Mrs F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and HSBC should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is and 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must  give
Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Im intending  to order HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs F compensation in accordance
with the calculation of redress set out above.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267767