K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained about her home insurer, Ageas Insurance  Limited, as she feels  it 
handled her flood claim poorly,  which resulted  in further damage  being caused to her home.
background
There was a flood  at Mrs Ps home in December 2015. Ageas accepted  the claim and Mrs P 
along with her family moved out for repairs to be completed.  The family returned  home  in 
September 2017 with all work, including snagging  issues, completing in December 2017.
Ageas had begun to dry the property in January 2016. Towards the end of April it was 
estimated that the house would only take a further week  or so to return to its previous 
moisture level (be dry). It was around three weeks after that when the drying equipment  was 
removed. At the point  the drying equipment was removed a restoration  specialist assessed 
the property as Mrs P had become  concerned about  cracking  in the plaster in the upstairs of 
the property. The restoration specialist said the property had been  over-dried which had 
caused the cracking. 
In July 2016 Ageas appointed a structural engineer as there were some concerns  about 
supporting walls, or lack thereof, in the basement. He concluded there were issues with the 
basement  which  Mrs P ultimately fixed.  He noted cracking in the property, downstairs and 
up. He said the downstairs plaster should  all be removed anyway due to flood water 
contamination. Regarding the upstairs he didnt think this damage  had resulted  from the 
property settling following  the flood. 
With Mrs P resolving  the structural issues in the basement, the insured reinstatement  work  in 
the basement and the ground floor progressed. Ageas though  wouldnt  deal with the upstairs  
crack damage. 
In January 2018, following  receipt  of a complaint  from Mrs P, Ageas issued a final response 
letter. It said the cracks werent  related,  it felt, to the flood or the property having been dried. 
Ageas said it seemed  most likely they were linked to the support issues  that had been  
identified and rectified in the basement. Mrs P complained to us.
Our investigator, in his view and over the course of several contacts with Ageas, explained  
that he felt it should  accept  liability  for repairing the cracks.  In essence he felt the restoration 
specialists report was persuasive, and the engineers report  didnt detract  from that. He 
noted the engineer hadnt commented on the over-drying of the property and that Ageas had 
confirmed that the engineer wouldnt wish to provide any comment in that respect  now.  He 
said Ageas  should  pay £500  compensation.
Ageas felt we were  wrong  to rely on the restoration specialists report. Its case handler said 
his view of the cracking was that it had likely been caused by the lack of support in the 
basement and pointed  out that the drying  specialist wasnt an engineer  and hadnt taken the 
structural issues into account when  making  his report. Therefore, that report  had, effectively, 
been discounted by Ageas in favour of the engineers report  which, said the case handler,  
had linked the cracking to the lack of support in the basement. 
Mrs P was generally pleased with the findings. But she said really shed like to have  cash  to 
get the repairs done. She said they would likely  cost around £5,000.
Ref: DRN47827022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the evidence  in this case quite clearly  shows that the most likely cause of the cracking 
upstairs was that the property was over-dried. It doesnt matter  in this case that the report  
regarding drying  wasnt carried out by an engineer. An engineer has expertise in respect  of 
structures and movement  he is best qualified to comment in that respect.  But a restoration 
specialist has appropriate qualifications and expertise to make  findings about how a property 
has been dried. For me the restoration  specialists report is adequately detailed,  with enough 
technical information provided to satisfy me its findings are likely reliable.
If the engineer had confirmed the upstairs  cracking  seemed  to have been caused by the lack 
of support in the lower part of the property, then that would be different.  Thered then be two 
likely causes for the damage. But he didnt. 
The engineers report was divided into sections. In one section he listed  what  he saw going 
around the property.  So in that section the lack of support is noted, as well as the cracks. But 
listing them  both in this section doesnt create a causal link between the two. He then has a 
section titled conclusions/recommendations . Again both issues are talked about here. But 
at no point does  he say the cracks are caused by the lack of support. He is a structural 
expert who is assessing damage; if he had thought these cracks looked like those 
associated with movement due to a lack of support, and particularly as hed noted there was 
a lack of support, then its reasonable to expect that his conclusions  would most likely have 
reflected that. But they didnt.
So the evidence  we have regarding the cause of the cracks is confirmation  from the 
engineer that they arent related to movement of the property due to settlement. He also 
notes that there is no mirrored external cracking, which, when present, is also an indicator of 
structural damage having been  caused  by the property  moving  in some way. And we have 
the expert view from the restoration specialist that the cracks were caused  by over-drying of 
the property. A job Ageas  undertook. Therefore, Im satisfied that Ageas  must reasonably  
resolve the cracks.
Mrs P has recently asked for the cracking  issue to be settled in cash. Id usually say an 
insurer should first attempt to resolve  damage it has caused. That keeps a clear  chain of 
liability going  in case any other problems are found.  But, following my decision, if the parties 
want to negotiate  to find the best way for both of them  for Ageas to discharge the liability that 
Ive found it has for resolving the cracks, then that is up to them.
Being flooded must have been very stressful for Mrs P, and finding  out that there were 
structural issues with the home that had to be fixed was likely upsetting too. But I cant 
blame Ageas for any of that upset. However, I do see that Mrs P has had concerns about 
cracking for a very long-time which Ageas has largely ignored. And whilst I know it had a 
view on the specialist report presented to it, I think  it was wrong  to have dismissed  it. In the 
circumstances here,  Im satisfied that £500  compensation  is fairly and reasonably due.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN47827023I require Ageas Insurance Limited to accept liability for the cracking in the upstairs  of the 
property as having been caused by its over-drying in 2016 and arrange with Mrs P a suitable 
way for rectifying the issue.
I also require Ageas Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs P £500 compensation. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4782702