K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy that covered a store card. 
Mrs S was sold the store card in a department store  but FICL  has taken responsibility for 
this complaint, so Ill refer to FICL in my decision to keep things simple. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs S took out in 2002.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the compliant, but FICL disagreed. So the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because at the time Mrs S was sold PPI she was 
working less than 16 hours per week in a part time role. This means that while Mrs S 
wouldve been paying full cost for the PPI, she wouldnt have been able to utilise  the primary 
benefits of the policy.  Had this been made clear to her, I dont think Mrs S wouldve wanted 
to take the policy,  so I think that Mrs S has missed  out because  of something FICL  did 
wrong. 
Ive considered everything FICL  have said  including  what  it has said about requiring 
evidence and clarification  about Mrs Ss employment  circumstances,  but I dont think this is 
required. Mrs S was asked about  her employment status  and provided us with information. 
Theres also nothing on her credit  agreement that contradicts what  shes  told us, so I still 
think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs S would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
Ref: DRN43233022If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs S what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs S a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4323302