K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  have unfairly declined  a claim under his home  
insurance policy.
background
Mr D tells us he lent a musical instrument to a friend, Ill call her Ms F. Ms F says she placed 
the musical instrument in the boot of her car before commencing a journey. During the 
journey she stopped at a petrol station to do some general shopping and says she locked  
the car. When she returned to the car she opened the boot and saw that the musical 
instrument was missing. Ms F reported  the theft to the police. And says she asked the petrol 
station if there was any CCTV footage of the theft. She was told there wasnt.
Mr D contacted Aviva to make a claim for the loss of his musical instrument. He told them  he 
thought the thief used a jammer  device as there was no damage to Ms Fs car.
Aviva declined the claim and said the policy excluded  theft from an unattended  vehicle other 
than from a concealed boot which has been broken  into using force  and violence.
Mr D says he was told he didnt have  any evidence that there had been force and violence 
used. And that hed have to prove that a jammer device was used to enter  the vehicle.
Mr D was unhappy with this and felt it was unfair  that he had to prove the car was locked. So 
he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that whilst  she couldnt  be certain what  happened  it was unfair to 
ask Mr D to prove that the car had been locked and that force and violence had been used. 
And said Aviva should pay the claim.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators  view and asked for the case to be decided  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F has provided  a statement of what happened and reported the theft to the police. And 
Aviva have accepted  that the musical  instrument was stolen in the circumstances described. 
Its not in dispute  that an insured event occurred so Ill make no further  comment on this.
In her statement Ms F says she regularly travels with musical instruments in her car and 
takes care to keep  them out of sight in the boot and locks her car. Shes described feeling 
uncomfortable as 2 men were on the petrol station forecourt and distinctly  remembers 
locking the car for that reason. Whilst I cannot be certain if the car was locked  Im satisfied in 
the circumstances of this case that it most  likely was.
Aviva have relied on an exclusion to decline the claim. The exclusion says:-
we will not cover:
Ref: DRN46360842 theft from an unattended vehicle (other than from a locked and concealed  boot, concealed 
luggage compartment or closed glove compartment of a securely  locked vehicle which has 
been broken into by using  force and violence).
It situations where an exclusion is relied on it is for the insurer, not the insured to 
demonstrate the exclusion  applied. And Aviva havent done this.
As there was no sign of damage to Ms Fs car the thief most  likely broke into it using some 
form of remote  device,  sometimes  referred to as a jammer or a relay device - different types  
of device operate in different ways and have varying names to describe them. And Im 
satisfied that the use of a device demonstrates force and violence as the level of force  
required is over and above what would usually be necessary  to overcome the normal 
resistance of the lock.
Our investigator said Aviva should  also pay Mr D £75 to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
caused, and account for the fact he had to go out of his way to obtain further evidence.  Mr D 
approached the local police service,  made  enquiries  to the home  office about crime statistics  
in the vicinity of the petrol station and researched online for information  that might  support 
his claim.  But none  of this could prove that a device  had been used as it wasnt  specific to 
this theft. Aviva also suggested  he contact the main  dealers for Ms Fs make of car. He 
contacted the customer  relations centre for the vehicle manufacturers  and they were also 
unable to assist  with evidence. 
Given that Mr D had to spend  time trying to obtain  evidence that he should not have been 
expected to Im satisfied  that this award  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to settle this claim subject  to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And to pay Mr D £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4636084