K820x#14Complaint
K, a company,  complains that Santander UK PLC placed a restriction  on its account 
meaning it couldnt be accessed.  Miss J, a director of K, also complains she received poor 
customer service  when  she tried resolve  the issue.
Background
K has an account with Santander.
Santander says it wrote to K asking for information  so it could check  its records were 
accurate. Santander  says that this is something  it has to do as part of its know  your 
customer obligations, amongst other things. Santander phoned and emailed Miss J asking 
for the information  again as it says it received  no response to its initial letter.  Santander says 
it told Miss J that it would place restrictions on Ks account if the information it was asking for 
wasnt received within  30 days. Santander says it wrote to K again  after the 30-day deadline 
had passed, giving a further 7 days to contact them, with a warning  that the account would 
be restricted after this time if it didnt. Santander says K still didnt respond so it placed 
restrictions on Ks account meaning  it couldnt be accessed.
Miss J complained about the restrictions and said shed not received Santanders requests. 
She subsequently  complained that despite  providing  the information  Santander  requested it 
didnt remove the restrictions  straightaway, and that shed  received poor customer  service 
when she tried to resolve the issue.
Santander investigated the complaint but didnt agree that the restrictions  it had placed on 
the account or the process  that it had followed  were  unreasonable. Santander did, however, 
agree that the customer service Miss J had received whilst trying  to sort the situation out 
was unacceptable. So Santander offered  her £200 in compensation.
Miss J did not accept this outcome so complained on behalf of K, to our service.
The investigators view was that Santander was correct  in requesting the information.  It 
made reasonable efforts to ensure Miss J, as the director of K, knew what  was required and 
the implications of not providing it. His view was that placing the restriction on the account 
was reasonable  given  the lack of response. 
The investigator also looked at the customer service provided to Miss J by Santander. He 
agreed that it fell below what  they would expect. He felt the £200 Santander had offered was 
fair and so didnt  recommend Santander did anything further.
Miss J, on behalf of K, did not agree that the account restriction  was reasonable, and felt the 
compensation was not enough to reflect  the distress and inconvenience the process and 
poor customer service caused her, so the matter has been  passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Santander offered  Miss J £200 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she 
experienced as a result of poor customer service she received.  Thats  something Santander 
is entitled to do. I am, however, looking at a complaint  from K rather  than Miss J. Thats  
Ref: DRN46051392because K, the company, is Santanders customer, not Miss J. Shes a director  of K. Thats  
important because if I decide that Santander acted unreasonably, I have to consider the 
impact on K when deciding what compensation, if any, would  be fair to award.  That has a 
number of implications.  For a start, it means  I cant make an award  based  on the impact 
Santanders actions  have had on Miss J (as Santander has done). It also means that when 
deciding what impact, if any, Santanders actions have had, I can only consider the 
inconvenience K was put to as K, given that its a company, cannot experience  distress.  In 
the circumstances, I think  its important that I issue a provisional decision so that both parties 
have an opportunity to comment on my provisional  conclusions.
Ive looked at the reason  Santander had to request the additional  information  from K about 
its business account, the process leading to the restriction, and the customer service 
provided.
Was Santander entitled to ask for the information? 
This matter has not been disputed by K. But for clarity, I think  Santander has the right to 
request updated  information from Miss J regarding K. It can do this as it has a duty to meet 
UK legal and regulatory obligations. 
Was the decision to restrict, and the process  followed, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances?
Ive seen a copy  of the letter and form Santander  sent to K initially  requesting the business 
information from Miss J with instructions about what she needed to do. Miss J said she didnt  
receive it, but I can see it was addressed correctly so on balance probably went  to the right 
address. Its not disputed  that Santander  spoke to Miss J on the telephone as she hadnt 
responded and emailed  her a copy of the form with the deadline for its return. Miss J didnt 
respond to this either and has said this email must have been  missed amongst the weekly  
emails she receives from Santander.  I think that contact by post, telephone and email is a 
reasonable way for Santander  to request  the information needed.
Ive seen copies  of the letters sent to K seven days before the restrictions,  and when the 
restrictions were  put in place. Miss J said she was abroad at the time the letters were sent 
so was unaware the restriction had been  imposed.
Im satisfied that Santander was reasonable in its attempts to get K to supply the required 
information, with enough warnings of the possible restrictions given. I think  that the 
restrictions on the account and any inconvenience this caused to K could probably have 
been avoided  had the required  information  been provided within the timescales given. 
I think, therefore, the decision to restrict the account and the process  leading  up to it was fair 
and Santander  should not be held responsible for any inconvenience  caused to K by this.
Was the process of removal  of the restriction acceptable and the compensation fair?
Now I turn to the process followed, and customer service  provided  to Miss J, when she was 
attempting to give Santander the required information and get the restriction  lifted. Its not 
disputed by Santander that the level of customer service fell short of what  it would  expect. 
However, as I have said above,  this is a complaint from a company, and companies cant  be 
distressed. I do, however, need to assess if the company has been  inconvenienced  by this 
Ref: DRN46051393poor service. Santander has paid Miss J £200  in compensation,  so I need to decide whether 
this is fair in the circumstances.
It is understandable  that Miss J wanted  the account  restrictions lifted as soon as possible as 
she had no access to the money and no ability to pay anything from it. However, having 
looked at the evidence  provided to date, I think  the inconvenience and distress caused by 
the process and poor customer service was suffered by Miss J, and not K. Miss J hasnt 
provided any evidence  to show that the restrictions inconvenienced K. So, unless shes able 
to do so, and unless that evidence shows that I should award  more  than £200 in 
compensation, Im not minded to require Santander  to do anything more.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Santander didnt  have any further comments.
Miss J replied  on behalf of K. She said the business had been affected  as she, as the 
director, had to take an emergency  loan from the company as soon as the restriction was 
lifted. This resulted in her being penalised by HMRC and incurring additional tax liabilities.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Ks response to it.
Miss J has said that she had to take an emergency loan from the company  and that she 
incurred additional  tax liabilities as a result. I am sure this was both inconvenient and 
upsetting for her, but this is evidence of personal  distress and inconvenience. As I set out 
above, I must consider if there was any inconvenience caused  to K, and not Miss J. I do not 
think this has been shown.
For this reason, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. I do not require Santander  to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4605139