K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained about her home insurer  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.  She 
made a claim to it in June  2016, after a fire, which she felt it handled badly. She also felt its 
offers of settlement were  insufficient.
background
There was a fire in Ms Hs garage in June 2016.  There were a lot of contents  in the garage.  
Ms H made a claim  to Admiral and in May 2017  it offered  around  £39,056.13  in settlement.  
Ms H was unhappy about this and regarding certain  things  Admiral  had done whilst handling 
her claim. Admiral  then paid Ms H a total of £800 compensation. Admiral didnt tell Ms H that 
she could cash the settlement  cheque and still complain. Ms H remained unhappy and 
contacted this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint as she felt Admiral should  reassess its claim 
settlement. But regarding its claim handling, whilst she noted  it had been poor at times, she 
felt the £800 paid was fair and reasonable compensation. In May 2018, Admiral  and Ms H 
accepted the findings.
Following this Admiral offered Ms H £55,917.97 to settle the claim. Ms H said she wanted
£63,666. Ms H noted that many of the claim values had increased since the loss list was 
created. But she said shed overlook this if Admiral agreed to pay her settlement figure which  
she was satisfied was correct.
Admiral reviewed the figures  again. On 20 August 2018 Admiral said it wouldnt agree to pay 
more on account  of inflation  it had sent Ms H a cheque for £39,056.13 in May 2017 which  
she could have cashed and used to start replacing items. It said its new and final settlement 
value was £56,110.97, and it was sending her a cheque  for that amount.  Admiral said if Ms H 
still disputed this sum, she should bank the cheque anyway and contact  us.
Ms H contacted us. She said that part of her concern was that Admiral  had disposed  of some  
of her belongings before the claim moved to the settlement phase,  and without having  
properly validated them. Ms H felt this had skewed  the settlement figures. She said shed 
been unable  to bank the cheque sent in 2017  as she thought it had been sent in final 
settlement. She said she was generally  unhappy about how Admiral had handled everything 
from the outset and how long this had all been  going on for. Ms H said in light of everything
£800 compensation was insufficient.
Our investigator considered Ms Hs new complaint. She felt Admiral  should increase the 
settlement regarding some items that Ms H had highlighted  specific  concerns over, but not 
others. The total extra she felt Admiral should pay was £1,983.70. But she didnt think  it 
should have to pay interest  or any compensation.
Admiral said it would pay the sum if that would settle  matters. Ms H felt this wasnt enough. 
She sent in further cost details regarding  specific  disputed items. She remained adamant  that 
Admiral should pay interest and more compensation.
Ms Hs new evidence regarding item costs  was sent to Admiral.  It agreed to pay a further
£1,900 split across  three items. Ms H accepted the increase  but she continued to challenge 
the settlements  made for certain items Admiral hadnt increased its offer for. Ms Hs 
challenge also included  detail in respect  of two items Admiral hadnt reviewed previously. In 
Ref: DRN46060982total Ms H said she wanted Admiral  to pay a further £2,035 (in addition to the increases  
already agreed  of £1,983.70 and £1,900). Ms H said whilst  shed been focusing on the value 
of the claim her main  issue  has always been  how this was handled and how shes  suffered 
as a result  and she maintained she wanted us to now review everything  from the outset.
I issued some provisional findings.  I explained  the limitations of what I can look at, given the 
accepted view on the previous complaint. I felt Admiral should make a number of further 
payments, including those it had already agreed  to, but not totaling  as much as Ms H had 
asked for. The total I said Admiral should  pay in addition to the £1,900 and £1,983.70  already 
agreed was £734.01. But I said it should  pay interest on all these  sums  and £100 
compensation. Admiral  agreed, Ms H did not. My provisional findings were:
With regret  for any disappointment this may cause Ms H, Im not going to review her claim 
as a whole. Ms H was unhappy with how Admiral handled things initially  and the settlement it 
offered and she complained to us. We considered her complaint and upheld it. But that 
uphold included our investigators view that the £800  Admiral  had paid for distress and 
inconvenience caused up until June 2017 was fair and reasonable. Ms H accepted that. We 
cant then go back over what  happened. But I bear in mind,  that uphold  caused Admiral to 
review its settlement and that review subsequently  showed that its original  claim settlement 
offered in May 2017  was insufficient. I can also look at what happened from that point 
forward and consider how Admiral handled things when its claim activity resumed after our 
investigators involvement as it looked to review the claim  settlement and make  further 
payments to Ms H.
I think Admiral  handled  things reasonably when it resumed its claim handling activity. It 
reviewed the settlement  and paid the increased  amount  to Ms H just five months after our 
initial involvement ceased. Given the scale of the loss and the debates that have arisen,
I think that was a reasonable timeframe. I havent seen that it delayed  at all or put Ms H to 
trouble and effort that was unreasonable in the circumstances. But Im not satisfied that 
Admiral offered or provided fair settlement for all items, and I think Ms H has gone  to a lot of 
effort and suffered stress as a result. I think Admiral should pay £100 compensation.
Interest on the settlement  value wasnt raised  as an issue in that original complaint, so I can 
look at that now.  I am going to require Admiral  to pay interest to Ms H on the amount of its 
original settlement figure of £39,056.13. The rate is 8% and applicable on this amount from 
the date this sum was offered in May 2017  until Admiral paid Ms H the increased settlement 
value of £56,110.97 in August  2018.  When Admiral paid that sum it said Ms C should  bank it 
even if she wasnt happy with it. It could have said that in 2017 but didnt. As a result  Ms H 
was without those  funds for around  17 months  longer than she should have been.
The loss list contained  785 items  (some  of which were groups of items). In August 2018  the 
value for 27 of the items  remained in dispute.  When Ms H complained  to us our investigator 
recommended further payments for 8 of those  items.  Admiral  then reviewed  the settlement 
for a further 9 items  (from  the list of 27), offering increases  in respect of 3 of them.  Both
Ms H and Admiral seem  to agree  those  values are fair for those items. I think  thats likely the 
case. But as there are many items still in dispute I dont intend to focus my attention here 
upon these agreed items. Although if either  party wants more detail, I can provide it before a 
final decision  is issued. For the avoidance of doubt  the item numbers  are: 59, 74-76, 324, 
438, 505 and 621 (from our investigators view), plus 457, 510 and 708 (from Admirals 
recent offer).  The increased settlement totals  for these numbered items are £1,983.70 and
£1,900 respectively. I think Admiral should pay these amounts.
Ref: DRN46060983Im also not going  to provide detailed  comment on items which, whilst listed  in Admirals 
email in August  2018, havent  continued to be the focus of any dispute,  despite Admiral not 
offering any increase and/or our investigator  not recommending  any. There are 9 such items. 
Again, if either party wants more  detail I can review these items but we are an informal 
dispute resolution service  and it makes sense to me to focus on the issues  that are clearly  
important as theyve  remained at the forefront  of the dispute. The items that Im satisfied 
have fallen away and I dont intend  to consider  further are: 149, 160, 219, 245, 436, 440,
444, 482 and 575.
There were 2 items from the original 27 in respect  of which  our investigator didnt 
recommend that Admiral  make an increased payment and which Ms H has continued to 
challenge. These didnt feature in the further  9 items  that Admiral reviewed. Of the 9 items 
Admiral looked at, Ms H challenged  5 of the 6 that it didnt offer an increased settlement  for. 
She also said she wanted increased payments  for a further 2 items.  These  werent in the list 
of 27 items  detailed within Admirals August 2018  email. That means  there are nine items for 
me to consider in detail to determine  if Admiral needs to pay anything more.  For the 
avoidance of doubt these  9 items  are: 365, 453, 459, 489, 514, 703, 736, 745 and 746.
Turning to the two new items first  365 and 453; strictly speaking Ms H should make  a new 
complaint regarding these two items  but I dont think  that would serve anyones  best 
interests. Therefore,  Ill look at them now and if either Admiral  or Ms H want  to challenge  my 
findings they can do.
365, trolley  Admiral declined to offer settlement for this item. It said its a business item so 
not covered by Ms Hs home policy. Ms H clearly disputes that. Ive not seen any evidence 
from Admiral to show this is likely  a business  item, whether or not it is mostly sold for 
commercial use, it looks like any other trolley a homeowner might use around the home and 
garden or maybe even in pursuit of leisure activities. I think Admiral  should pay the £300 
Ms H has asked for and evidenced as being  the retail price for this item.
453, drum kit  Ms H says this will cost her £459 to replace.  Admiral  offered £240. Admiral 
says the exact  make  and model are no longer available, and its price is based  on an average 
for a similar kit. Ive had a look on the internet  and I can see, as expected that prices for 
drum kits vary drastically  not least in part, I expect  due to the quality of different items. I 
cant see that the make and model  Ms H had was particularly better or different from many  
Ive seen that could be purchased for the average amount Admiral  has paid. And Ive seen 
nothing to makes me think the replacement details Ms H has provided equate to a
like-for-like item for the kit that was damaged. Im not persuaded the settlement Admiral  has 
made is unfair so Im not going to make it pay anything more.
459, six metal and plastic sawhorses  Ms H claimed £210. Admiral set its value  at £108. 
The link Ms H sent to evidence her price  is for metal  sawhorses. Admiral  notes prices  vary 
depending on size and composite material. It also notes that these items can be bought in 
bulk, sometimes for as little as £40 (for six). I think the price  Admiral has offered  is fair so Im 
not going to make it pay anything more.
489, pull-along holdall  In Ms Hs most  recent list of prices  she says this will cost £84.99 to 
replace. Shed previously asked for £60. Admiral allowed  £26 for this item. The link Ms H has 
recently provided isnt for a holdall so there must be some mistake. Again, I think  prices for 
items like this do vary but Im satisfied by the link Admiral has provided that an amount of
£26 is a fair price  to allow Ms H to replace this item. Im not going to make it pay more.
Ref: DRN46060984514, brass items  Ms H wants £1,000, Admiral has offered £450. Admiral says the 
description for this item seems to have changed.  I note the link Ms H has most  recently  
provided takes you to a page where various brass  items are available. Again, Im not more 
persuaded these  items are like what Ms H had than what Admiral showed  she could 
purchase for the price it had allowed. Im not persuaded the settlement Admiral has made  is 
unfair so Im not going  to make it pay anything more.
703, camcorder  Admiral  offered £260  based on what it said was the nearest equivalent  
model to the one Ms H lost. Ms H wants £600,  she says Admirals  price is for a basic level 
model because  it didnt record the item details properly when it disposed  of it. She says the 
replacement should  be of a standard acceptable to her. From what Ive seen the make  and 
model were  recorded but Ive struggled  to find reference to the specifications of this make 
and model. Ive not seen that Admiral  failed Ms H when it recorded  this item before it 
disposed of it. Beyond noting the make and model the disposal company wouldnt have 
known the specifications of the item.  But I note that Admirals link doesnt show  an item of the 
same make as Ms Hs. And I think there is a vast difference in technology between items  
provided by difference manufacturers, even where the basic specs  for individual items  are 
the same. But Im also mindful that Ms Hs argument  about the item she has priced is that it 
is of a standard acceptable to her. And that doesnt make  me think the item is like that 
which she had before. Ive seen an item from the same manufacturer  on a national  retailers 
website for £359.  I think its fair to make  Admiral pay a further £99 to settle this item.
736, laptop  Admiral  allowed £419 for this, for the nearest  equivalent  to what Ms H had. 
Ms H wanted £600 and, recently, asked for £900. Ms Hs link is from a third-party  website. 
Using the link Admiral  provided, which takes  you to the manufacturers website, I can see a 
laptop available,  with similar specifications to the one Ms H has shown  in her link. But at half 
her stated price, £448.99. But that is net of a currently  applied discount of £69.99.  Prices  
clearly fluctuate, but that means Im not satisfied  that Admirals price  was unfair when it was 
offered. Or even that it was likely unfair in August 2018 when it paid Ms H £56,110.97, the 
lion-share of her claim amount. Im not persuaded it would be fair to make  it pay more now 
based on the currently available price, not when the original price was so similar that Ive no 
reason to think it was likely unfair.
745, camcorder #2  Ms H asked  for £500,  a recent link shows  an item at £631.  Admiral 
offered £260.  Unlike with item 703, Admirals  link was for an item from the same 
manufacturer. But like 703 I cant find specifications for the model item listed  against 745. 
Comparing the two items  presented by Ms H and Admiral, they seem broadly similar  the 
only real difference  I can see is a marginally  smaller screen size and poorer quality resolution  
on Admirals model. But Ive no way to know  that Ms Hs previous camcorder had a bigger 
screen and better quality  resolution than the item evidenced by Admiral.  So Im not
persuaded that Admirals price, based  on a model of camcorder  made by the same 
manufacturer of the item Ms H lost, is unfair or unreasonable. As such, Im not going to make  
Admiral pay anything more.
746, hammer drill  Admiral allowed £89.99 for this, Ms H asked for £300, the recent link she 
provided shows an item at a cost of £425. Whilst Admirals  link is for a cordless drill, it isnt a 
hammer drill. The items are distinctly different  one cant exchange one for the other and do 
the same  jobs. As Admiral hasnt provided a price for an item that I think  is likely comparable  
with what Ms H had before (as evidenced  on the disposal list compiled by Admirals  
contractor), Im going to make it pay in line the price Ms H has recently shown; £425. Taking 
off what Admiral has allowed for already (£89.99),  Im going to make it pay £335.01.
Ref: DRN46060985Interest on additional  sums  Im going to require Admiral to add 8% interest to any sums 
above which Ive said it should now pay. Im going  to require it to apply this from
August 2018 when  it paid the lion-share of the claim settlement to Ms H, and until it makes 
the further settlement.
Ms H made a number  of points in reply   but one caused me to provide some further 
comment before making any final decision.  Shed said there were 54 items (from the original 
list of 785) that shed  never complained to Admiral  about but in respect of which she was 
generally unhappy with the settlement value paid. She said she wanted me to review 28 of 
those 54 items. Heres what I said:
I note that [Ms H] says:
I would note that my main point is that the valuations made by Admiral  are usually always  
based on the cheapest  replacement item available from discount stores only. When I did not 
purchase the cheapest item,  I think it is unfair to make all their valuations  on that basis.
Items still outstanding which I require to be reviewed 18, 66, 63, 67, 69, 71, 72, 77, 81, 84, 
121, 161, 216, 258, 305, 308, 362, 376, 377, 556, 557, 567, 595, 700, 707, 716, 754, 769.
I note that these listed items werent part of the complaint that Admiral  initially  considered. 
The list of items it reviewed were set out in the email that contained  its offer of £56,110.97.
I havent seen  that Ms H has given Admiral a chance to review  its settlement offer for these  
items in light of any evidence she has about  value. That said I also note that Ms H in another 
email also says she hasnt researched the cost.  And in the extract Ive copied here it seems 
Ms H is object ing to the set price on principle (that Admiral shouldnt  opt for the lowest  cost). 
I can answer that concern for Ms H  Admiral  is allowed to settle at any reasonable cost. So 
if an item can be purchased for £X in one shop, but will cost £X+10 in the shop the item 
was initially purchased from, Admiral has no obligation to pay the higher price.  As long as 
Admirals settlement allows the policyholder  to purchase an item like that they had before, its 
offer wont  be considered  unfair. At this stage Ive seen  nothing to make  me think Admirals  
offer for these items was likely unfair and so Ive no ground on which  I can reasonably 
require it to review its prices or pay anything more.
In reply Ms H said she felt Id completely misunderstood how Admiral had treated her over 
this time and how shed  had to show through research and sheer hard work that every  
settlement value it had applied  had been  flawed. She said Admiral could have chosen to 
review all its valuations at any time but hadnt done so.
 Ive summarised the other points Ms H made  in response to my provisional findings:
From the outset Admiral has sought  to avoid and devalue this claim.
She doesnt  feel an acceptance of the view on the previous  complaint means  she cant 
complain about  Admirals whole handling of the claim  she understood shed have the 
chance to have  an ombudsman consider the compensation issue separately to the 
acceptance she signed  which she felt was in relation to the claim settlement part of the 
complaint only.
Costs  have changed whilst this service  has deliberated on complaints.
Admiral has had many opportunities to properly value items  but has failed to do this.
Its settlements have  kept increasing so it was wrong from the outset.
She feels frustrated,  anxious and exhausted having had to deal with everything for so 
Ref: DRN46060986long and often  Admiral has treated her with the casual lack of concern of a large 
company.
Surely Admiral must be responsible for how long the whole claim has been delayed.
She shouldnt be penalised for not being able to show  values  for items when Admiral 
completed an inadequate inventory and disposed  of goods.
Her policy didnt  offer basic level cover  as shed paid for a bronze  option, promising new 
for old. She shouldnt have  to accept basic models in replacement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to say any more about  the further 28 items Ms H has asked me to consider. 
I appreciate she is frustrated by this whole situation but I cant reasonably require an insurer 
to review some values its applied just because others it provided have been shown to be 
wrong. Or because its handled  a claim badly. The remedy for poor claim handling is 
compensation for upset  not an increased claim settlement. 
On the issue of claim handling,  I cant go back  over the initial stages of the claim because of 
our previous  complaint and the parties acceptance  of the view that was issued. I know Ms H 
feels she was mislead in this respect  but that is a complaint  about  our service. It doesnt  
change what I can do here in respect  of this second  complaint about her claim that was 
made some months after the first closed,  following  Admirals review of the claim and further 
settlement offer.  
Costs for replacements will have  changed.  Ive awarded interest.
Some of the values Admiral set have been  shown to be wrong, and have increased  either 
as a result  of its review  prior to this complaint being made or due to our intervention. So its 
failures in this respect have been  remedied.  
I appreciate that the whole process  that Ms H has been through  has been difficult and time 
consuming. And for the upset Im satisfied Admirals failures  in the run up to this second 
complaint caused  her, Ive awarded  compensation of £100. Ms H always  needed to be 
involved in the claim process and it was always up to her to assist  Admiral in validating  her 
loss by providing details of items  and, if she was unhappy with Admirals  values, evidence to 
challenge them. 
In my provisional findings above the only items  that really turned  on an argument about 
whether the replacements  were like Ms H had before  were  the camcorders.  I noted  that their 
make and model had been noted  during disposal;  and that I couldnt  reasonably  have 
expected the disposal  company to do anything more. I found Admiral  should pay more in 
respect of one of the camcorders but its settlement regarding the other  was fair. I dont think  
Ms H has been penalised.
New for old cover, and paying for more  than (what is perceived  to be) basic level  cover, 
doesnt mean better items  (than what one had) can reasonably be expected in replacement  
of items that are lost or damaged. The premise of insurance is to make you as you were  
before  not improve  your position  by providing better items. Admirals settlement and all the 
arguments and evidence about it have  been considered. Where Ive felt the settlement was 
flawed, Ive said so and Ive made awards accordingly. Im satisfied by the findings that Ive 
Ref: DRN46060987made and that taking  those findings  and awards into account  means  Ms H has received, or 
will have received, fair and reasonable settlement of her claim in line with her entitlement 
under the policy  cover  in place.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  to pay Ms H:
£100 compensation.
£1,983.70 as a total price increase on items  numbered: 59, 74-76, 324, 438, 505 and 621.
£1,900 as a total price  increase on items numbered: 457, 510 and 708.
£300 in settlement for item 365.
£99 as a price  increase for item 703.
£335.01 as a price  increase for item 746.
An amount equivalent to interest* on all the above sums, excluding the £100 
compensation, from the date it paid the amount  of £56,1110.97, after this was offered in 
August 2018, to the date settlement  of the above sums is made. 
An amount equivalent to interest* on the amount of its original settlement figure  of 
£39,056.13, from the date this sum was offered in May 2017 until it paid the increased 
settlement value of £56,110.97  in August  2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Admiral  Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest  due to Ms H, 
it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4606098