K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that the fees and charges  applicable to his Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited mortgage endowment policy reduced  the surrender value he received in 2015.
Whilst the policy was originally taken out with CGU Life, it now falls under the Aviva 
umbrella. For ease  of reading Ill only refer to Aviva in this decision, but that should  be taken 
to mean  CGU Life as appropriate.
background
Mr B took out a unit linked  endowment policy in 1999. The policy was set up with a target 
sum assured of £88,000  and was invested in the With Profits fund. The policy  also included 
critical illness cover in addition to the standard life assurance. Mr B surrendered  the policy in 
2015 at just under £40,000.
Mr B complained about the fees and charges, saying that the increase  in the cost of those 
meant less of his monthly premium went towards the investment element of the policy. Aviva 
didnt uphold  his complaint.
Mr B asked us to look into his concerns. Our adjudicator said the life and critical illness cover 
costs increased over time because of an increase in risk and that Aviva  hadnt done anything  
wrong. As Mr B didnt agree its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr B wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
I understand Mr B is unhappy his policy was falling  short of the target sum it was set up for. 
But investment  returns  have been  much  lower than was anticipated when this policy was 
arranged. 
The policy booklet  explained the cost of life and critical illness  cover  was met by cancelling  
units. It also explained that the amount would vary each  month  depending  on certain factors 
such as age, sex and the difference between the value of the fund compared to the death 
sum assured. It follows from this that the older  Mr B became the higher the cost of the life 
and critical illness cover. But that was something that was factored in when the policy was 
originally arranged. 
What wasnt anticipated  was the lower  than projected levels of growth for the policy. 
Because investment returns were lower  than anticipated the value of the policy was also 
lower. This in turn meant the cost of life and critical illness  cover  was higher  as the 
difference between  the value of the policy and the death sum assured was greater and so 
the potential sum Aviva  would need to meet was greater.  
I have to test a complaint against what the law and regulations required at the time of the 
actions (or inactions) complained about. I cant try and apply todays standards  of 
transparency and information to things which happened many years ago. Transparency 
Ref: DRN44822682might indeed be a hot topic now but it certainly wasnt  in 1999. It simply wasnt  a requirement 
at the time for specific charges to be set out in detail, nor was there a regulatory requirement  
for Aviva to set them out in the annual statements.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
25 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4482268