K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that an engineer from British Gas Services  Limited  damaged her oven.
background
Miss O had a Home Care  policy with British Gas. In November  2017, an engineer attended 
to repair  her oven. He identified a problem  with the rubber seal and ordered some 
replacement parts, but he failed to book the return appointment.
Miss O contacted British  Gas in February 2018  and the engineer returned to replace the 
seal. On that occasion, the vent pipe was damaged and, again, the engineer ordered more 
parts, taping  over the vent to prevent any cooking fat coming out of the back in the 
meantime. When the engineer returned to fit the new vent pipe, Miss O told him shed 
cooked a pizza  and because the rear vent had been  taped  up, steam had been forced 
through the front of the oven causing tarnish  marks on the door trims.  She explained shed 
used the appliance and turned it off once she noticed steam coming out of the door. The 
engineer cleaned the cooker in an effort to remove  the marks, but this didnt resolve the 
issue.
Miss O sent in photos of the marks which British  Gas considered.  It said it would try to get 
new door trims,  but unfortunately they werent available. It later said it wasnt  liable for the 
damage, and its offer to replace the door trims was a gesture of goodwill.
Miss O complained to British Gas. The engineer didnt  think the damage was caused  by the 
blocking of the rear vent. He said that since the oven with the blocked vent wasnt connected  
to the oven with the damaged trim, it wasnt possible the steam  created in the one oven had 
damaged the other. He said that although  they are one appliance, the two ovens sit next to 
each other  and work completely independently.  And the temporary repair  undertaken by the 
engineer wouldnt  have affected both ovens, concluding the tarnish marks were due to 
normal wear and tear. British Gas apologised for the way its investigation was conducted 
and offered £100 compensation for poor service and the inconvenience this caused. It also 
offered £30 for the delay  in providing  its final response.
Miss O rejected the offer and complained to this service. She said she never uses  the lower  
right oven, and provided photos in support of her complaint. She provided  a report from an 
independent engineer stating the damage was caused by the blocking of the vent, and she 
said she spoke to the manufacturer who confirmed blocking off the vent pipe would definitely 
cause the damage, hence the reason the oven vents from the back. Because the trims of the 
oven doors  are no longer available and the extractor  hood  matches  the oven, Miss O wants 
the oven and extractor fan replaced. She also said she didnt feel British Gas had 
investigated her complaint  properly, explaining it didnt returned her calls or emails apart 
from leaving a voicemail message  stating it didnt accept it was liable for the damage.
British Gas said that even if steam from one oven  could impact the trim of another oven  
door, this wouldnt have happened  in the 20 minutes  it would take to cook a pizza.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said she had no reason to question  
the credibility of the independent report, and she accepted the damage was likely  to have 
been caused by the blocking  of the vent.  But she felt that, as the trims  were  no longer 
available, it would be disproportionate to make British Gas pay to replace  the entire 
appliance, so the most  suitable  resolution  would be for British  Gas to pay Miss O £150 
Ref: DRN42092162compensation for the damage and reimburse  her for the cost of the report. She agreed the 
customer service  Miss O had received had fallen short, including  the time British  Gas had 
taken to consider  the complaint, but she was satisfied £130 compensation was reasonable. 
Neither party was satisfied with the outcome of the complaint, so its been  passed to me to 
review. Miss O isnt satisfied with the offer of compensation because  the damage is 
permanently visible, even  when the cooker isnt in use, and she feels  it will get worse. She 
doesnt feel £150 will put her back into the position shed have been in if the cooker was 
properly repaired,  and she doesnt accept  its sufficient  compensation. Shes  argued the 
compensation doesnt include  the income  she lost as a result  of having taken time off work 
for the second  engineers  visit, or the time she spent on the phone and writing emails  dealing 
with the complaint. She said shes suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience,  including  
having been called a liar by British Gas and the fact her family was put at risk. 
British Gas has pointed  out that Miss O should have produced a report from the 
manufacturer, and not an independent  engineer, and it has suggested our investigator  didnt  
consider its engineers report. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O reported the tarnish marks to the British Gas engineer when he attended to fit the 
new vent pipe,  and she maintains the trims were perfect before the engineer  blocked  off the 
rear vent pipe causing the heat and steam to vent at the front causing the tarnishing. She 
says the manufacturer said blocking off the vent pipe would cause the damage, but she 
hasnt submitted a written  report or other evidence to show this is what  she was told.
British Gas accepts the engineer shouldnt have taped over the vent.  But it doesnt accept 
the temporary repair would have affected both ovens, and maintains the tarnish marks were  
due to normal wear and tear. It doesnt accept  the discolouration was caused by the 
engineer, arguing  a single  use of the oven by Miss O wouldnt have caused the damage.
Ive considered the photographic evidence and its difficult  to see the damage. But Miss O 
paid for the cooker to be inspected by an independent engineer who concluded the vent 
pipe from left hand oven was broken by British Gas they then blocked it off which has 
caused steam to vent out of the front door and damaged  the three trims.  Following 
comments from British Gas,  Miss O asked the engineer to comment further on the issue of 
whether the damage could result after one use, and he confirmed this would happen after 
one use as the rear vent has been  blocked  off this has caused the damage as appliance is 
rear vented NOT front vented appliance so this is not normal  wear and tear and would cause  
damage if the rear ventilation  is closed off which has been done  when  BG visited.
Miss O says British Gas didnt attend her property to view the damage and reached a 
decision on her complaint based only on the photos.  But it did conduct  a site visit during 
which the engineer took photographs, later commenting the marks were hardly visible. I 
consider this comment shows it accepts there were some marks, and while  I have 
considered its engineers  comments, it hasnt submitted any independent evidence  to 
support its argument  that the damage was a result  of wear  and tear. 
Ref: DRN42092163While I note theres no evidence the damage  didnt exist before the engineers  visit, I have 
no reason to doubt Miss Os account  that it followed a single use of the oven following the 
vent having been taped up by the British Gas engineer,  and that she doesnt ever use the 
oven with the damaged trim. In those circumstances, Im not satisfied British Gas has shown 
the damage is a result  of normal wear and tear and in light of her engineers  report, I 
consider it is responsible  for the damage.
However, as our investigator  has pointed out, the damage is minor and cosmetic  in nature, 
and the oven is still useable. In those  circumstances I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask British Gas to replace the entire  cooker (or the hood). I consider the 
complaint can most fairly be resolved by a payment of compensation for the fact the 
appearance of the oven has been damaged, and I agree  that £150 is fair and reasonable.
Miss O is unhappy about the way her complaint has been handled, in particular the delays 
she experienced waiting for the matter  to be investigated. While this service doesnt consider  
complaints handling (because its not a regulated  activity) I will take it into consideration in 
my overall assessment of the way shes been treated.
British Gas isnt at fault for having  to order parts for the repair,  but the fact the second visit 
didnt initially  go ahead  is unsatisfactory and I consider this resulted in unnecessary  
inconvenience for Miss O. Ive also considered  the fact she had to call British Gas on a 
number of occasions to find out what was happening. Miss O has said she had to take time 
off work while she waited for engineers  to attend and Ive taken this into account in my 
assessment of the impact British Gas poor service had on her, but I cant  fairly  ask it to pay 
for any time she took off work because I consider it was for her to manage  her time around 
those appointments.
British Gas has already  offered £130  for poor service and while  I understand Miss O feels  
thats not sufficient,  Im satisfied that, in the circumstances, £130 addresses the impact the 
delays and poor service  had on Miss O. I understand shell be disappointed but Im satisfied 
the compensation British Gas has already offered is fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct British Gas Services Limited to: 
pay Miss O £150 compensation for the damage  to the oven. 
pay Miss O £130 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
poor handling of the claim.
The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
British Gas Services Limited Miss O accepts  my final decision (if she does). If it pays  later 
than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date my final decision  to 
the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires British  Gas Services Limited to take off tax from this 
interest, they must  give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she 
asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Ref: DRN42092164Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4209216