K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP gave her loans that were unaffordable.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in June 
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
My provisional decision was issued in Mrs Ds former name  (Ms W) but shes  since informed 
us of her marriage.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
Uncle Buck  has responded to my provisional decision. Its agreed to provide redress  in 
relation to loans  six to eight. But its asked that I reconsider  my decision as regards loans 
four and five, on the basis it had noted  from its credit checks that Mrs D had a financial 
association and joint commitments,  including a mortgage, with another  individual.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have revisited the information and observations provided to us by Uncle Buck;  most  
particularly insofar as it relates  to loans four and five. I should say that I did consider all of 
this information  when arriving at my provisional  decision  but did not feel that it detracted from 
the rationale I set out for upholding the complaint against these loans. 
As such I invited Uncle Buck to let me have an articulation as to how it considers  the 
information relating  to joint finance  commitments challenges my reasons  for upholding 
Mrs Ds complaint that these loans  were not sustainably affordable  for her. I havent received 
a reply and so can see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN43185652my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint and, to put things right,  I instruct  
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Mrs D on loans four to eight;
add simple interest at 8% per annum to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan eight 
before paying  any remaining balance to Mrs D;
remove loans four to eight inclusive from Mrs Ds credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take tax off this interest. Uncle  Buck must 
give Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43185653EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Between 2016  and 2017 Ms W took out eight  instalment  loans from Uncle Buck,  as follows:
Loan No. Amount Instalment  p.m. Date lent Date repaid
1 £100 £49 4.1.16 3.3.16
2 £200 £92 13.5.16 1.7.16
3 £150 £75 2.8.16 31.10.16
4 £300 £147 3.11.16 31.1.17
5 £200 £88 20.4.17 30.6.17
6 £300 £149 4.7.17 29.9.17
7 £200 £96 7.10.17 1.12.17
8 £500 £181 1.12.17 outstanding
Each of the loans was scheduled for repayment by three monthly instalments. With the exception of 
loan eight, which remains outstanding, all were repaid on time.  
Ms W says that she was experiencing financial  difficulties at the time she borrowed from Uncle Buck,  
and she believes  that Uncle Buck didnt do adequate checks as to the affordability of its loans. At the 
time she was borrowing from several  other lenders  and had a poor credit score.  
Uncle Buck is contends  that it did do appropriate  checks before  each loan. 
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Buck was wrong  to provide loans three to eight  inclusive and 
recommended that it pay some compensation to Ms W. Uncle Buck  didnt agree.  It highlights that:
whilst  Ms W was given eight loans, she had actually made 19 applications, of which it 
declined/cancelled 11;
there were periods  between  loans  where  Ms W was not borrowing from it (70 days between loans  
1-2, 32 days  between loans 2-3 and 78 days between loans 4-5).
But Uncle Buck did offer to waive the interest attaching to loan eight and to deduct this from the 
outstanding balance. 
Ms W has chosen  to decline Uncle Bucks offer and has asked,  as shes perfectly entitled to do, that 
the complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms W could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle  Buck should fairly  
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN43185654the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Ms W 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
As Uncle Buck has already acknowledged that it shouldnt have given loan eight to Ms W my 
assessment will focus solely upon loans one to seven  inclusive. 
Uncle Buck has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms W. Before  agreeing each loan it 
asked her for details of her income, and her normal expenditure.  And Uncle  Buck says it checked 
Ms Ws credit file before each loan.  
loans one and two
I think  that the checks Uncle  Buck  did before agreeing the first two loans were  sufficient. The amount 
that Ms W asked to borrow was relatively  modest compared to her declared  income and expenditure. 
And the repayments she needed to make each month appeared to be comfortably affordable based 
on what shed said about her disposable income. At this early stage  of its relationship with Ms W I 
think it was reasonable for Uncle  Buck  to rely upon the information she provided. And that suggested 
the loan was affordable. 
The credit  check for loan one revealed that Ms W had two judgments registered  against her a few 
years earlier. There were also two debt defaults recorded. However, each of these was from a couple 
of years earlier. And I dont think  that this information would, as a matter of course, be a reason for 
Uncle Buck to have declined her loan application.  I havent  seen anything  else in the results  of the 
credit check that I think  wouldve been likely to persuade Uncle Buck against lending to Ms W.
In these circumstances I dont think it was wrong to provide these  loans to Ms W.
loan three
Loan three was provided around one month after repayment of the prior loan. It was for a lower value 
than loan two and was repayable over three months. Uncle  Bucks records show that Ms W confirmed 
her monthly  income  remained at £1,400 but that her expenditure was £650.  This implied that she had 
disposable income  of £750 from which to repay  this loan at £75 per month.
Ref: DRN43185655I can see from the results  of the credit check undertaken at this time that a new default had been 
registered against Ms W since the last credit check was undertaken. 
Also, whilst Ms W told Uncle Buck that she was living  with her parents, the credit check  that it 
obtained shows that she had a mortgage  of £150,000 at the time. Further, in her application, shed 
declared monthly mortgage  repayments of £100. I note that Ms Ws first three applications  to Uncle  
Buck state  her regular monthly  expenditure as fluctuating between £270, £1,179 and £650 
respectively.
I consider each of these  facts, and the apparent inconsistencies in Ms Ws expenses, to represent 
warning signs  to a lender; firstly that Ms W may have been  experiencing some financial difficulties, 
and secondly that her self-declared financial information may not have been reliable.
This was Ms Ws third loan within a few months and I think that this information shouldve caused 
Uncle Buck to carry out further checks. In these circumstances, like our adjudicator, Id have expected 
Uncle Buck to done more to ensure that this loan was sustainable, including  asking her for details of 
any other short term lending commitments. I cant see that it did so, and therefore I dont think  that its 
checks went  far enough.
Ive reviewed the credit  report  that Uncle  Buck  obtained at the time and can see that this showed 
monthly repayments to other short term loans amounting  to £237.  Our adjudicator  had assessed this 
commitment at a higher figure, including  £500  due to one short term lender.  But I note that this 
particular loan was, at that time, under an arrangement to pay at around £30 per month.
Given her income and regular expenses, together with these short term loan commitments,  I think  
that, even  if it had carried  out the better checks that I consider to be proportionate,  Uncle Buck  would  
have still considered  this loan to be sustainable. It follows that I dont think it was wrong to provide  this 
loan.
loans four to seven
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Uncle  Bucks lending to Ms W with a view to establishing whether 
there was a point at which it should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was unsustainable. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ws case, I think that this point was reached by loan four. I 
say this because:
this was Ms Ws fourth loan from Uncle  Buck  in 10 months,  and shed  had outstanding  borrowing  
from it for more than seven months;
loan four was granted only three days after the previous  loan had been repaid;
the amount  borrowed was double  that previously  borrowed;
I think that the pattern  of lending,  together with its knowledge of a recent default, ought to have 
alerted Uncle Buck to the likelihood that Ms W was experiencing difficulties in managing  her 
money. So I think it should  have been concerned  that she wouldnt be able to repay  the loans 
sustainably.
I recognise that there was a gap of almost three months between loans four and five  but I dont think  
that this is a long enough  break  for Uncle Buck to assume that Ms Ws financial circumstances might 
have improved  in the meantime.
I dont think that Uncle Buck shouldve given Ms W any of loans four to seven  and its already  
conceded that it was wrong to provide  loan eight. So, its not right that she should have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges in relation to these, or have them affect her credit file in a negative  way. 
Ref: DRN43185656I think  the overall number of loans from Uncle Buck on Ms Ws credit file, in itself, constitutes negative 
information  which has arisen through Uncle Buck agreeing to lend to her when it shouldnt have. So 
instead of directing Uncle  Buck just to remove  adverse payment information in relation to these  loans, 
Im going to direct it to remove the loans entirely.
Having considered  all the evidence  provided to me, I am currently inclined to partially uphold Ms Ws 
complaint.
Ref: DRN4318565