K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs S 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint,  but they thought BoS offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs S paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs S. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that BoS offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised my reasons  for each 
of these conclusions  below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think, on balance  BoS made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because BoS has provided a copy  of Mrs S mortgage  
application from the time.  And looking at this I can see Mrs S indicated that she wanted 
PPI by ticking the level of cover  required and stating how much monthly benefit she 
required. She also signed the application  overall  so if she didnt want  the cover  she 
couldve left this section  of the form blank.
Ref: DRN41374132Overall, taking everything into account including the fact that the event in question  
happened many  years ago, I think its likely Mrs S chose to take out PPI and did so 
without undue pressure.
Because BoS records are no longer complete, it has assumed that this was a branch 
sale where it recommended the PPI to Mrs S. This means it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for her. And the evidence about  Mrs S circumstances  at the time,  shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. For example Mrs S was 
eligible for the cover and although she had some  existing  means  in the form of some sick 
pay and savings she couldve used to make her mortgage repayments if she wasnt able 
to work, I think she still had a need for cover. She was solely  responsible for the 
mortgage and had two dependants. So I think her finances  would  have been  put under 
strain if she was unable  to work for an extended  period of time.
There was nothing about Mrs S employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim.  And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect  her ability to claim.  There were  also no additional  restrictions  on cover  
for mental  health  or back problems. So I dont  think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended PPI to Mrs S given her circumstances  at the time.
I accept its possible  the information BoS gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs S as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was likely  given.  And at under £10 a month  it also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs S would have  declined  the cover  had BoS done  
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mrs S representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs S particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN41374133non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should  have  disclosed the commission  it received and that 
BoS offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Mrs S about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BoS and Mrs S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because BoS 
didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit  share in this case 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mrs S representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mrs S should get back all the money she paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell Mrs S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mrs S wouldnt have  taken out the policy  had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN41374134-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs S in order  to remedy the unfairness  caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mrs S representative suggests, driven to conclude  that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoS failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for BoS to calculate  compensation in line with the FCAs guidance  and 
return some  of the money Mrs S paid for her PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mrs S 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if BoS had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that BoS offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission  and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As BoS has already paid Mrs S compensation on this basis, I dont  consider  it should do 
anything further.   
Ref: DRN41374135my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs S complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mrs S an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where applicable.) As Bank of 
Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4137413