K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that he wasnt  given the interest  rate he says he should have got when he 
took out savings bonds  with National Savings and Investments (NS&I). He would either like 
the bonds to be reissued using the original interest rates or to be paid the shortfall between  
the rates.
background
In February 2018  NS&I  contacted Mr N regarding some new bonds it was offering. Mr N 
called NS&I and was told he couldnt invest as much as wanted  online because of a limit 
when using a debit card, but he could send a cheque instead.  Mr N didnt want  to split his 
investments and wasnt comfortable sending a cheque for the amount involved.
NS&I then suggested opening a separate account which  could then be used to transfer the 
money into the bonds. Eleven days later Mr N opened the account  and within two weeks the 
money was transferred to open two new bonds. But in that time the interest rates on the 
bonds had gone down  and new issues of the (same)  bonds were available.  
Mr N complained. He said the invitation he received stated  that the bonds were  available 
until April 2018 and there was no suggestion that rates  could change. He said in his opinion 
hed entered into a contract when he first spoke to NS&I about how to invest and should  
have received the rates in place at that time.
NS&I said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.  It said it had acted fairly and was unable  
to give him the higher interest  rate  but because the rate had fallen it explained that Mr N 
had a 30 grace period  in which to cancel his investment and it asked him if he wanted  to do 
that, but Mr N didnt. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld as NS&I  
had followed  it process correctly and used the interest rate applicable at the time of the 
application.
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed taken legal  advice and was sure his definition of the 
contract was correct.  He  believed NS&I hadnt acted fairly and hadnt made it clear that the 
interest rates could  change if he subscribed  to the bonds by April 2018. He wanted a 
decision on the matter  so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware of how strongly  Mr N feels about  this matter and I can assure  him Ive looked 
carefully at everything  hes said and the points hes raised about a contract  being  
established when  he first contacted NS&I. But I dont think  NS&I have done anything  wrong 
here, which I know will disappoint  Mr N, so Ill explain  why.
Mr N says he wasnt made aware  that the interest  rate on the bonds  could be changed once 
hed said he was going to invest.  He says a contract  was formed at the point he contacted  
NS&I and expressed a desire to invest his money.  NS&I have said Mr N would have been 
advised to read a brochure and the terms and conditions before applying, which would have 
told him that the purchase date was when the application was received.  The terms would 
Ref: DRN48552842have also confirmed that NS&I could change  the fixed rates on offer at any time without 
notice.
Ive carefully considered  those documents and I think  NS&I  was entitled to regard a 
contract as being  formed when  all the requirements to set up the bonds had been met  in 
other words when it received a completed  application and the funds. The terms and 
conditions noted  in all cases, an application to purchase is subject to acceptance by 
us.Once an application to purchase has been  accepted the date of purchase will be the 
date that the completed application  to purchase was received by us..
This was NS&Is default position, and I havent  heard any suggestion during the telephone 
calls that it told Mr N anything different to this position. So I think  NS&I has acted reasonably 
in applying the terms and conditions of the product and I think  the contract was formed  
when NS&I received  the application and had agreed to invest the funds into the bonds.
One of the conditions that was covered by the terms and conditions  was around the interest 
rate that would apply. Ive listened  very carefully  to the calls between Mr N and NS&I in 
respect of the bonds to see if it misled Mr N about the interest rate hed receive on his bonds 
 Mr N has also heard these calls. Mr N was concerned about sending  a significant amount 
of money to NS&I by cheque  I can understand why  and the February  2018  calls were 
largely about the mechanism or process  he could use to get his money to it to set up the 
bonds. Ive noted Mr Ns comments about  the level of investment he told NS&I he would be 
making but Im satisfied  nowhere in the calls did NS&I  tell Mr N that it would guarantee or 
commit to giving him the interest rate on the bonds at that time. 
The terms and conditions  stated that each  bond  issued belongs  to an issue.  Each issue 
has a term and specific interest rate that applies to itany issue  can be withdrawn from sale 
without notice. An application can only be accepted  for issues on sale on the date of 
purchase...
   
So Im satisfied that NS&I  was allowed  to change the rates if it decided to do so and Ive 
seen that the rate was changed on 6 March 2018.  Im satisfied therefore  that NS&I  applied 
the correct rate to Mr Ns bonds at the time of his application. 
Mr N has said that a notice on NS&Is website confirmed that issues of the bond would be 
available until April 2018. NS&I have confirmed that its unable  to show what was on the 
website in March  2018. But Ive looked at what is currently  available  which I think  is most 
likely to be broadly  similar  to March  2018, and Ive seen that before applying for a bond 
customers are told to read the summary  box and a separate brochure. The summary  box 
does confirm that youll receive the rate on offer at the time you invest or start a new term, 
and that rate will be fixed for the length of your chosen term. We can change the fixed  rate 
on offer at any time. 
I have some sympathy for Mr Ns position regarding his understanding  of the word  guarantee 
when applied to the interest rates. Whilst rates are guaranteed  indeed  Mr N has been 
given a guaranteed rate on his bond   the various issues  for the bond arent and can be 
withdrawn and replaced (at different interest rates) at any time. 
      
Ive made  my decision based upon  what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint  taking  account of all the information. But here I cant say NS&I have made 
any errors. I think  it was clear in explaining  how Mr N could apply for the bonds and it was 
Ref: DRN48552843allowed to vary the interest rate within various issues of the bonds  according to its terms and 
conditions.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against National Savings and 
Investments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4855284