K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about information Nationwide  Building Society reported on Mr As credit file 
about his mortgage payments. Mr A says that hes suffered  detriment as a result of the 
information being recorded, and because of the delay in Nationwide  removing it. Nationwide  
has paid him £125 compensation, which Mr A says isnt enough; hes claiming £2,000.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
The problem started in Autumn 2018  when Nationwide mistakenly set up a direct debit 
mandate for Mr As mortgage  on a third partys  current  account. When  the third party  made 
an indemnity claim to recover the money under the direct debit guarantee, Mr As mortgage 
went into arrears  until Nationwide and he could arrange for him to make up the payment. 
This was reported on Mr As credit file. 
When Mr A complained, Nationwide issued a final response in January 2019, apologising 
and paying him £75. It said that once Mr As (now correctly-set up) direct debit brought  the 
account up to date on 1 February  2019, it would clear the adverse data from his credit file. 
Matters should  have ended there; unfortunately, another indemnity claim was made in 
March 2019 for a payment that had been collected  in December 2018. 
Nationwide issued another final response  on 21 May 2019, agreeing to take the same  steps  
as before, and paid Mr A a further £50 compensation. It said it would take about six to eight 
weeks for Mr As credit file to clear completely of the adverse data. During this period, Mr A 
had needed to travel abroad due to serious  family matters, but struggled to find credit at 
affordable rates.
Mr A referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked  into the case, and 
considered that Nationwide should increase its compensation from £125 already paid to a 
total of £250. Nationwide has agreed  to do this, but Mr A has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He says £250 is not fair or equitable; he remains of the view 
that proportionate redress for the adverse information is £2,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and Ill make 
some general observations before dealing with the substance  of the complaint.  Were not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police  their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial,  
and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  
Ref: DRN45318742our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else. Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage is held jointly  by Mr A and his wife; initially  there  was a suggestion Mrs A 
would join the complaint,  but we checked  recently  if she wished to be part of it and received 
no response. To be clear, this is Mr As complaint about  the impact  of Nationwides actions 
on his credit file.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Its not one where  I have to decide 
fault; Nationwide has admitted the mistakes that led to Mr A receiving adverse information 
on his credit file. All I need to decide  is what redress Mr A is fairly  due for that mistake.
Mr A has spoken openly and eloquently  about the adverse information on his credit file 
limited his access to affordable credit at a time when his family overseas was in crisis and 
needed his support. I wont  reveal  the details here to preserve Mr As privacy, but Ive read 
everything hes said and have no doubt about the distress its caused him. 
Im not unsympathetic  towards him, but to be clear, I can only award the level of 
compensation Mr A is seeking if Im convinced on the balance of probabilities that the 
problems Mr A had were caused solely by the information that Nationwide  put on his credit 
file, and that nothing else whatsoever might have contributed to his finding it difficult to 
access affordable credit  when he needed  it. Thats not an exact science; lenders use many 
and varied factors  when making decision on credit. Its precisely for that reason  that I asked 
Mr A to provide a full and unedited  copy of his credit  file in its entirety. I needed  to see what  
else might  be on it that might make potential lenders  reluctant to offer him credit.
So far, Mr A has provided us with various  extracts  from his credit file, mostly  to do with the 
information Nationwide put on it, and how his overall  score  has varied since it was removed. 
But that doesnt provide  the whole picture; I can only get that if I can see the full credit file 
without any redactions  or extractions. 
Unfortunately, Mr A hasnt  provided  it, saying its no longer available  in the form it was 
because Nationwide  eventually  removed  the incorrect information,  albeit five months late. 
I fear Mr A has missed  the point; I need to see his full credit file not to see what Nationwide 
put on it. I need to see it in order to rule out any possibility that information placed by other  
creditors might have  contributed to his difficulties. 
On that point, Mr A also queried why we were  asking  him for more details about a county 
court judgement (CCJ)  that appeared to have been placed on his record in March 2019.  He 
says he has no knowledge  of a CCJ (only an individual voluntary arrangement  (IVA) that 
ended in 2018) and challenges us to say who recorded it. 
Again, I fear Mr A has missed the point; the CCJ was on one of the many  random extracts  of 
his credit information that he sent to us. If Mr A doesnt know what  it relates  to, that invites 
the possibility  that he could have  an issue with another creditor  and needs to look into it. 
What it tells me, however, is that for the purposes of this complaint and the decision Im 
required to make on it, I cant  fairly  conclude that the problems Mr A had in finding credit 
during 2019 are solely down to Nationwides acts and/or  omissions. 
Ref: DRN45318743For that reason,  I cant find in his favour  on the level of compensation hes seeking. The 
increased award suggested  by our investigator   and accepted by Nationwide  is fair in all 
the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final 
settlement, I direct  Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr A £125,  making  a total of £250 
compensation. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4531874