K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd (Intrinsic) failed  to ensure the correct 
investment instruction had been  applied  to his pension account. As a result a large sum 
remained invested in cash for a period  of around  one year.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2019.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Both Mr H and Intrinsic have said 
they accept my provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that both Mr H and Intrinsic  
have said they accept my provisional findings  I see no reason to alter those conclusions.
It follows that I think it is reasonable  to decide  that Intrinsic should  bear responsibility  for 
25% of the loss that Mr H has suffered through his funds being held in cash for around a 
year. So Intrinsic needs to pay Mr H some compensation.
putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would now be in 
if his funds had been correctly invested. To compensate Mr H fairly,  Intrinsic must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that it would have achieved if it had 
been invested in line with his default  account  settings.  If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value , no compensation  is payable.
 
If there is a loss, Intrinsic  should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by 25% of 
the amount of the loss and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would conflict  with any existing  protection or allowance  and since I am also making an 
award against A, Intrinsic should  liaise  with that company  to ensure the impacts of the two 
payments are considered together.
If Intrinsic  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been  paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  
Ref: DRN43753402Intrinsic should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement (if compensation  is not paid within  28 days  of the business 
being notified of acceptance).
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Intrinsic deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Intrinsic should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual value of the investment at the date of settlement of this complaint. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the date of settlement of this 
complaint had it been invested in line with the default account settings.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, it would be reasonable to total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Intrinsic  Financial Planning  Ltd 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43753403EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains that Intrinsic Financial Planning  Ltd (Intrinsic) failed to ensure the correct investment 
instruction had been applied to his pension account. As a result a large  sum remained invested in 
cash for a period of around one year.
background
This complaint relates to a relationship between Mr H and an appointed representative of Intrinsic. 
Intrinsic is responsible for the actions of its appointed representative.  For simplicity,  although  Mr H 
dealt exclusively  with the appointed representative, I will generally refer to all actions below  being 
taken by Intrinsic.
Mr H transferred some  pension funds to a new provider  (that I will call A) in March 2016.  He 
received advice from an appointed representative of Intrinsic before  making that transfer.  Intrinsic 
asked A to receive the funds, make a lump sum commencement payment  and then transfer the 
remaining funds to an existing crystallised account.
A successfully  received  the transfer from the other provider and paid the lump  sum to Mr H. It then 
transferred the remaining funds to his existing  crystallised  account. But those  funds  remained 
invested in cash for approximately 12 months before Mr H noticed the lack of investment returns and 
asked for the funds to be invested in line with the funds previously in the account.
It wasnt clear to Mr H who was responsible for the failure to correctly  invest  the funds,  A or Intrinsic. 
So he has raised complaints against both parties. I will be deciding  both complaints together in order 
to reach a fair and consistent view of whether  something did go wrong, and if so where the 
responsibility for that error should lie.
Mr Hs complaint against Intrinsic was assessed by one of our investigators. She thought  that Intrinsic 
was responsible for failing to ensure Mr Hs pension funds were invested in line with his requirements. 
So she asked Intrinsic  to pay Mr H some compensation.  Intrinsic  didnt agree  with that assessment, 
saying that it thought A was responsible instead. So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved informally, 
it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
I think  the basic facts behind this complaint are relatively  simple. Mr H arranged  for Intrinsic to transfer 
some pension  benefits to A, for A to pay Mr H a lump sum and then to add the remaining funds  to 
Mr Hs existing pension account. And that all seems to have progressed smoothly and in line with 
what everyone expected. But the very last stage of that process seems to have produced an outcome 
different to what Mr H and Intrinsic expected.
Mr H already held some crystallised pension funds with A. And that account  had a default investment 
strategy applied to it that A had explained would  apply  to any future  investments. That investment  
strategy required  that only 1% of the funds in the account  should be held in cash. So when the 
additional funds were added  to the existing account Mr H and Intrinsic say they expected  A to apply 
that same default investment approach.
But A says that wasnt the case. It says that in circumstances such as these  the remaining funds  
would be left invested in cash until it received a subsequent instruction. And it says it sent an email to 
Intrinsic to let it know  the funds were ready for investment.
Ref: DRN43753404I have looked carefully at the instruction  A was given for the transfer of Mr Hs pension funds. And Ive 
considered what A has said. In its response to this service  A said Mr H moved the residual amount to 
the existing Capped Drawdown plan. And the form Intrinsic  completed to arrange  the transfer said it 
should only be used  for making  an additional  designation into an existing capped drawdown 
account. So I think it was reasonable for Mr H and Intrinsic  to view this transaction as resulting in the 
addition of funds to his existing account.
As I said earlier, Mr Hs existing account had a default  investment  strategy applied to it. That meant 
that 99% of the funds  in the account would be invested in a managed fund with the remaining funds 
held in cash.  And when selecting this option Mr H and Intrinsic had been told by A that this asset 
choice would be the default selection for future investments. 
Intrinsic had asked that the uncrystallised funds were received and be initially held in cash. That 
makes perfect sense since a portion of those funds  were  to be used to provide Mr H with a lump sum.  
But when those funds  were crystallised  and moved to the existing wrapper I think it is entirely 
reasonable to expect  that these  should then have  been added to that account in line with the default 
investment strategy for it.
So it is clear  that the residual funds were not invested in line with the default strategy  set out by Mr H. 
And I think that this was initially the responsibility  of A. 
I have seen that A sent an email to Intrinsic shortly after the lump  sum had been paid to advise  that 
the residual funds had been added to Mr Hs existing account, and were  held in cash  awaiting  
investment instructions. But I can also see that there was an ongoing issue between  Intrinsic and A 
over the non-delivery  of emails around that time. So although  I have no doubts that A sent the email,  
I think  it unlikely that it was received  by Intrinsic. And this is supported by the evidence I have seen  
from Intrinsics IT provider that suggests the email wasnt received into its mail servers.
Given that Ive found A was at fault for the initial failure to invest the funds  in line with the default  
instructions on Mr Hs account,  I think that responsibility  for the error  should remain with A unless 
I find Intrinsic failed to act appropriately. And I dont think it fair to hold Intrinsic responsible for not 
acting upon an email that most likely wasnt  received.
But I have considered that it took 12 months before  the problem was identified. I understand that the 
problem was noticed during an annual  review  of Mr Hs investments and was corrected shortly 
afterwards. But I dont think it unreasonable to expect Intrinsic to have followed up on the transfer 
request to ensure  that it had all completed successfully. In addition I can see that a statement was 
issued to Mr H, and so most likely available  to Intrinsic,  in November 2016.  And that statement  
showed that the majority of Mr Hs funds  were  held in cash. So I think that it would be reasonable to 
say that Intrinsic should bear some of the responsibility  for Mr Hs loss.
On balance I think it is reasonable to decide that Intrinsic should bear responsibility for 25% of the 
loss that Mr H has suffered through his funds being held in cash for around a year.  So Intrinsic needs 
to pay Mr H some compensation.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4375340