K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Ms D complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The policy was taken  out during a meeting in one of the banks branches when 
Mr T and Ms D applied for a mortgage.  It protected their mortgage repayments  if Mr T 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T and Ms D disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr T and Ms D mainly say that at no point  were they advised the insurance was 
optional or that they could look elsewhere  and that they were told they wouldn't  get the 
mortgage without  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why I say this. 
Theres a section on their mortgage application  which deals with MortgageCare - this is what  
Barclays called its PPI. The mortgage  application  Mr T and Ms D completed  shows  that they 
answered questions  about their circumstances to see if PPI was useful for them.  And they 
filled in details of the amount of cover  they wanted  in the section where  it says:  
MortgageCare  payment protection is optional and not a condition  a taking a mortgage . 
There was a separate section on the mortgage application headed: Declining 
MortgageCare and Mr T and Ms D couldve signed here to say they didnt want  PPI. So 
I think they would've been able to see that it was up to them to say if they wanted  PPI  or 
not. This section of the form is left blank on their application. Mr T and Ms D signed and 
dated the completed application confirming the information theyd put on the form.  
As well as this, Mr T and Ms D also completed a separate PPI application form which  they 
had to sign to get the policy. 
I can understand why they mightve  forgotten  these details  after so long. 
And I dont  know exactly what was said at the meeting when Mr T and Ms D took out their 
mortgage with PPI. But I cant uphold this complaint just based  on what  they say. I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely. 
On balance, I find that the paperwork  they completed wouldve made them aware that the 
PPI was optional  and they indicated  they wanted to have the cover  for Mr T. 
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mr T and Ms D and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN43791112Mr T was eligible  for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting the 
policys main benefits.  
The policy wouldve protected  Mr T and Ms Ds mortgage repayments for up to 720 days  per 
claim if Mr T couldnt  work  because he was involuntarily unemployed or if he was off sick or 
he had a disability.  Repeat claims were  possible  after a qualifying  period back  at work giving 
Mr T and Ms D long term cover for their mortgage. 
It doesnt appear to me that Mr T and Ms D wouldve been able to keep paying  the mortgage  
for very long if Mr T wasnt working and bringing in his pay. Their mortgage was a big 
financial commitment and their home  couldve been  at risk if they werent  able to make  their 
mortgage repayments in full and on time each month.  As the mortgage  was taken out when 
they were both working, I think losing Mr Ts income wouldve had a big impact on their 
family finances. Mr T told us he didnt  have any sick pay from his employer  and that they 
didn't have any other means to rely on to pay their mortgage if he wasnt able to work. So, 
looking at Mr T and Ms Ds circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information  Barclays  gave Mr T and Ms D about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to if 
they hadnt wanted it. They set up payment  arrangements at their bank when they applied to 
have PPI, so it looks like they were happy  to pay for it at the time  even if theyve forgotten 
this now. The policy seems to have been  affordable for them when they signed up to it.
Looking at their circumstances, and the useful benefits that PPI offered them,  I think it 
unlikely that Mr T and Ms D wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. I think its likely they still wouldve taken out the PPI. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr T and Ms D have lost out as a result of anything that Barclays  
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4379111