K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc ("RSA") only offered to pay a
proportion of a claim  he made  under his home contents insurance policy.
background
Mr C held a home contents insurance policy with RSA. Mr C made a claim under the policy  
when some items were  stolen from his vehicle. RSA considered the claim. They  discovered  
that Mr C wasn't eligible  for the policy he held as he worked away from home around 3 days  
a week. Under the terms of Mr C's policy, he couldn't leave his property unoccupied for more 
than a total of 60 days  of the year. Had Mr C disclosed his work pattern to RSA when  he 
took out the policy, he would have had to pay a higher premium.  So RSA calculated how 
much more Mr C would have to pay in premiums  for the right policy  and offered to meet  a 
proportion of the claim.
Mr C feels this was unfair.  The policy was purchased in January and the claim was made in
March, by which time Mr C hadn't been away from home for more  than 60 days. Mr C says
that since he has been made aware of the term he's made  sure his girlfriend stays in the
property when he works away from home.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Mr C was unaware of this policy
term. On the facts she thought Mr C had met the eligibility requirements for the policy  he
purchased, as he hadn't left the property unoccupied for more  than 60 days  at the time the
claim was made and would not do so in the future  as someone else would be staying at the
property when he was away. Our investigator  thought that RSA should  deal with the claim in
full within  the terms and conditions of the policy.
RSA disagree. They  maintain  that Mr C wasn't  eligible  for the policy at the point he took it
out and rely upon admissions about his working  practice.
I wrote  a provisional decision in April 2019. In which I said:
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When answering questions to obtain insurance there are rules laid down in the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act, known as CIDRA,  about the responsibilities  
of consumers and the actions available  to insurers. The Act requires that consumers answer 
questions accurately, and says what  should  happen  if the consumer provides incorrect  
information carelessly, deliberately or recklessly.  So I've looked  at what was said when the 
policy was taken out.
Mr C bought his policy online  in January 2018. I'd been provided with screenshots of the
pages he would have passed through. At the start of the section "About your home"  Mr C
would have been referred to eligibility conditions,  to read the conditions, Mr C would have
needed to click the link. One of the conditions stated that "the home  you want  to insure  is
NOT left unoccupied for a total of more than 60 days  in a year." A series  of questions
followed about the property and contents. Once the application was completed, a quote was
generated with a breakdown of the information  provided. At the end of that information a
section in bold set out the eligibility  conditions, including,  "the home you want  to insure is
NOT left unoccupied for a total of more than 60 days  in a year." If the applicant did not meet
Ref: DRN48947192any of the eligibility  conditions they were asked  to call a number.  If the applicant  met the
conditions, they were required to tick a box confirming that they had read and met all the
eligibility statements.
Mr C ticked the confirmation box. In the course  of investigating the claim, RSA discovered
that Mr C was away from home up to 3 days a week as he was working on a long-term
project. At the point Mr C said he met the eligibility criteria in January, he knew  or should
have known that his working  pattern would leave the property unoccupied for more  than 60
days in total a year, so in my view Mr C didn't give the right answer.
RSA have said that Mr C's response  amounted to a misrepresentation. CIDRA says that
where the misrepresentation was careless,  insurers may:
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or
apply other  exclusions  or limitations it would otherwise have  applied).  But if the
consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
Where the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  insurers may avoid the policy  (treat
it as though it never came into existence) and need not return the premiums.
CIDRA doesn't allow the insurer to simply charge an additional premium,  although  we think
it's fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option of them paying the additional
premium for the insurer to then settle the claim in full instead of settling the claim
proportionately. But that can only happen  if the policyholder is happy with that.
On balance, I considered  Mr C was asked a clear question and his answer  was incorrect.  So
there was a misrepresentation. Mr C said he was unaware of the requirement not to leave
the property unoccupied for more than 60 days  and didn't recall  this section of the
application process. He's now made  sure someone stays at the property whilst he is away.
On balance, I think the misrepresentation was careless.
RSA say that had Mr C given the right information when he bought  the policy,  his premiums
would have been higher.  They've offered to consider the claim on a proportionate basis. In
my view RSA's approach  was in line with CIDRA. And whilst RSA initially  gave Mr C details
about an increase  in the cost of premiums, they didn't pursue this as Mr C confirmed that
going forwards his girlfriend would be staying at the property whilst  he was away.
I considered that it was fair and reasonable to deal with the claim on a proportionate basis,
applying the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
RSA accepted that Mr C was given some misleading information during  the claims process,
which caused confusion  and they'd offered £50 in compensation for this, which I considered  
was fair and reasonable.
The parties have  now responded  to the provisional decision. RSA have nothing further to 
add. Mr C is adamant that the online policy only refers to 60 consecutive days. Hes provided 
a screen shot of page 12 of the policy.
Ive reconsidered  everything in order to reach  a final decision,  including taking into account  
the online application process.
Ref: DRN48947193my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the online application process.  The first page of the online application 
has a highlighted  link which states, make sure you have read our eligibility conditions. And 
as Ive explained, one of the requirements was not to leave the property unoccupied for a 
total of more than 60 days. These  eligibility requirements are set out again at the end of the 
process as set out above.
The policy conditions are set out in the terms and conditions and expressly state that if a 
consumer does not meet the conditions,  the claim may be rejected or a claim payment could 
be reduced. Consumers  are required to state  if the home is going to be unoccupied. 
Unoccupied is defined  as your home is going to be left without any occupants  for more  than 
a total of 60 days in any insurance  period. This is consistent with the online information 
about eligibility requirements.
The eligibility requirements are separate to the exclusion  clauses. Eligibility terms determine 
whether a consumer  meets the requirements for a particular insurance  policy,  whereas 
exclusion clauses explain the circumstances when a claim will not be met.
The section quoted by Mr C is an exclusion clause for theft or attempted  theft claims from 
the home. But the issues in this complaint surround  the eligibility criteria, which Ive 
addressed above.
Having reconsidered  everything, it remains my view that Mr C did make a careless 
misrepresentation when he applied for the policy.  For the reasons already given, it remains  
my view that it was fair and reasonable to deal with the claim on a proportionate basis,  
applying the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C, but I wont be asking  RSA to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4894719