K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  wouldnt allow him to 
transfer his benefits in his section 32 buy out policy with them.
background
Mr K said that he wanted to transfer his fund to a family pension  fund.  He supplied 
supporting papers to show that the receiving scheme would comply  with guaranteed  
minimum pension requirements  (GMP). He also said Aviva had agreed to do this for his 
wifes policy in the past. Aviva told him the fund was not of high enough  value to meet  the 
GMP requirements and that the receiving scheme didnt comply with HMRC requirements for 
an overseas pension scheme.  
Aviva said UK law meant it could not transfer his policy benefits if the GMP wasnt  covered. 
It said his policy value  was around £35,000  but it would need  around £82,000 to cover his 
GMP. It wouldnt comment on why Mr Ks wife had been able to transfer her policy but 
pointed out that regulatory  requirements  had changed since  then.  It said that while  Mr K had 
provided a lot of information about the receiving scheme it didnt think it met regulatory 
requirements.
The adjudicator thought  Aviva had dealt with the complaint fairly. She said that Aviva  were 
required by law to pay the GMP secured by the policy whether or not the fund could support 
payment. Where the policy  fund isnt sufficient to support the payment the rules said that it 
wasnt policy to make early payment before age 65 or to transfer out before that age. Even if 
that wasnt the case Aviva didnt  think the receiving scheme complied  with the HMRC  
requirements to allow  a transfer.
Mr K didnt agree and couldnt understand why the transfer had been allowed for his wife but 
not him. He also said he complied with GMP requirements under another policy  and wasnt 
clear why double  compliance was needed.  He also said that he had asked for the transfer to 
be made when he was 65 or later,  as was the case with his wife, so this cannot have been  a 
relevant objection. The receiving scheme  was deemed compliant when his wife transferred 
and her policy was also underfunded. It was the same  scheme  that would receive his 
transfer on this occasion  so mustve  satisfied HMRC rules  at that time and mustve provided 
satisfactory reassurance regarding future payments  of his wifes GMP.
The adjudicator said that she had checked the regulations  governing transfers and 
confirmed that they were  not permitted when  the GMP was underfunded.  She referred to 
regulation 6 (c) of the relevant regulations. Aviva  was required to comply  with English law 
under which the policy  had been written. The fact his wife had been allowed to transfer some 
years ago didnt create a precedent that bound Aviva.  Although he had two policies that 
related to different periods of service each  GMP related to a different time period. So he 
wasnt being required to comply with GMP requirements twice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I can understand Mr Ks frustration that he isnt able to transfer  his policy  in the same  
way that has wife has done in the past.
Ref: DRN48020912I note that Mr Ks policy is underfunded to the tune of about £50,000. Even  though there isnt 
enough money to pay his guaranteed minimum pension, Aviva  is required to make  up the 
shortfall from its own resources to make sure he is paid the amount of the GMP on 
retirement. This is a very valuable safeguard that benefits Mr K and puts Aviva under a 
financial burden. It is clear  that it doesnt benefit Aviva to say it cannot transfer the value of 
the policy.
I have reviewed the regulations relevant to transfer  payments  from a section 32 buy out 
policy to cover a GMP. Having done  so, I am of the view that they do not allow Aviva to 
make the transfer  where the GMP is underfunded. It is clear that Aviva dont have any 
discretion about  this.
I note that Mr Ks wife was able to transfer. But her case  isnt the subject of this complaint. 
There could be several reasons  that transfer was possible  but that doesnt mean that this 
transfer can go ahead and Aviva isnt required to do the same  here.  For that reason it 
doesnt help this complaint.
With respect to Mr Ks additional policy that also contained a GMP, I agree that this isnt 
duplication of compliance with GMP requirements. Each policy  will relate to a different  period  
of contracted  out employment and the requirements  must be met for each period and policy.
As Aviva isnt able to transfer due to the underfunding  there is no need to consider whether 
or not the receiving scheme meets  the requirements applicable for an overseas scheme.
So I dont  think Aviva was wrong  to refuse  the transfer request and I am not upholding this 
complaint.
Finally I note in passing that Mr K said his pension  under the policy  shouldve started in 
January 2019  but hadnt. I note the retirement  papers indicate that in the absence of 
instructions it will move  his retirement  date to age 75. The non payment isnt a matter  that is 
the subject of this complaint and Mr K will need to follow up with Aviva. He may then need to 
bring a separate complaint to Aviva and if needed to this service.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802091