K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr E says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Capital One had to make it clear that the policy was optional and Mr E had to agree to take it 
out. When we initially  received this complaint Mr E told us that he felt the policy  was 
compulsory but more recently  he has said that the policy was added without his knowledge 
or consent. These  statements  are somewhat different and so it seems that Mr Es 
recollection of events from that time may have been  affected  which is understandable 
considering this sale took place over 14 years ago. In situations like this I need  to consider 
what I think is more likely  to have happened.
Ive been given a copy of the credit  card application form that was completed  at the time and 
on this form there is a section about PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept or 
decline the cover and I can see that a tick has been placed in the yes box. Mr E has signed 
the form which suggests he agreed  with everything that had been entered. If Mr E didnt want 
to take out the PPI he could have ticked the no box.
In addition to this, Ive also seen copies  of Mr Es credit card statements and the charge for 
PPI is shown as a separate entry. If Mr E didnt  know what  this extra charge was for, or 
hadnt agreed to take out the PPI, I think he would have questioned at the time.
So, based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Capital One made it clear that the 
policy was optional and that Mr E agreed to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt 
want it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide for himself if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI by ticking the box on the application  form 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Ref: DRN45787312Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr E, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr E has said - including what he has said about not needing  
the policy as he was entitled to six months pay from his employer if he was too ill to work. 
But this policy would  have  paid out for up to 12 months if Mr E was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness and this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, his sick 
pay. And the policy would  have provided  cover for the same length  of time if Mr E had lost 
his job. As he had no other means  with which to meet his repayments if he wasnt  working I 
think this policy could  have provided  a useful  benefit to him. So this point doesnt  change my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4578731