K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) misinformed him about  placing stop 
loss orders for his cryptocurrency trades. He says this led to the orders  being  placed wrongly 
and that thereafter  he learnt about  a loss on the trades that arose  because  the orders had 
expired and had not been triggered. He seeks compensation for the loss. 
background
The crux of the complaint is that Mr B placed  temporary stop loss orders that were designed 
to expiry daily, whereas  his intention had been to place  orders  that rolled  over for as long as 
the trades existed and until he cancelled them. The result was that he relied  upon  the orders 
continuing to be in place when in fact they had expired. Unknown to him, until he later 
discovered, they had not been triggered at the point(s) and time(s)  he expected because 
they had expired previously. He says misinformation  from IB about the placement of stop 
loss orders led to these  problems.
IB did not uphold Mr Bs complaint,  so he referred  it to this service. In the main,  IBs position 
is as follows:
Mr Bs account had an execution only basis and he is an experienced businessman  
who would have  been in a position  to understand his trading in the account.  The 
terms and conditions  he agreed for the account made it his primary and sole 
responsibility to understand his trading, make his trading decisions and to monitor his 
trading. The terms also had the effect  of disclaiming any liability  on IBs part for his 
trading and/or losses and/or his reliance on any statements by its employees  which  
purport to be advice.
Mr Bs enquiries about placing a stop loss order began around 7 February 2018 and, 
based telephone calls and online chats, they continued until around  15 February. By 
16 February he had placed the relevant stop loss orders  and his enquiries thereafter 
were mainly  about  the events  aftermath (including  his complaint). During his 
enquiries, before placing the orders, the information given  by its staff was accurate 
and matched the questions he asked  none of which sought to distinguish between 
temporary and permanent stop loss orders. In addition, and crucially,  its staff directed 
him to information about stop loss orders he could access  easily  on the platform, in 
order for him to learn more about  them. IB has and shares no responsibility for Mr Bs 
selection of the wrong type of order and it also questions  the legitimacy of his claim 
for compensation given that he did not mitigate  the matter once he learnt  about  it and 
given that his cryptocurrency trades  have  actually  become  profitable. 
Mr Bs position is that he was inexperienced in the relevant trades and did not know  how to 
use the stop loss orders   hence  his enquiries; the orders were  placed for two trades  on 
different dates; telephone recording evidence of the conversation in which  he sought to 
place the second order shows that his queries to IBs staff included reference  to having 
placed an order a couple of days previously; during the conversation  the order  was more 
than a day old but was still active (potentially due to a system error) so he had no indication  
that it expired  daily; there was enough within his enquiries for IBs staff to understand the 
type of order he wanted; having  believed the orders were permanent he had no cause to 
monitor them daily; upon realising and raising  the problem  IB first said there had been a 
technical problem  then it said the opposite, it said there was no such problem  and that the 
Ref: DRN48905372orders had not been triggered  before  they expired; his submission is that there  was a 
technical issue (due to the orders lasting more than a day) and misinformation by IB.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, for broadly the same  reasons  as those given by IB. The matter was then referred  to 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The execution only basis upon  which Mr Bs account was operated is a primary 
consideration in this matter. It defines  the scope of his responsibilities  and those of IB. In this 
respect, the terms and conditions of the account appear to be as IB has described. The sum 
of their effect  was that Mr B was solely responsible  for the management, monitoring and 
trading/trading related  decisions  in the account.  I appreciate that the account had a 
connection to the administrator of his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) but, for the 
practical purpose in this complaint, it was his account.
Having said the above, it remains relevant to consider  the exchange between both parties in 
terms of the misinformation alleged by Mr B. I have listened to the relevant telephone call 
recordings and read the transcripts of the online chats. Mr B suggests that the telephone call 
in which  he sought  to place the second order is key. I consider that the telephone  call on 9 
February, before any of the orders were  placed,  is more important. As IB says, Mr B made a 
general enquiry  about stop loss orders and was given basic  information in this respect, 
before being referred to information  on the platform where he could learn  more.  Having 
listened to this call, I note that IB repeatedly referred  to the information on the platform  for 
the purpose of Mr B learning  what he needed to know about stop loss orders/trailing  orders. 
There was no query  about the different types of orders in this call or in any other.  
I am persuaded that in the context of an execution only service and irrespective of the level 
of IBs staffs knowledge about the order, which Mr B has questioned, it became his 
responsibility to refer to and acquaint himself with all relevant  and accessible  information 
about stop loss orders  in the platform.  In the absence of evidence that the information  in the 
platform was inaccurate  or inaccessible,  I consider  that IB discharged  its duty (in terms of 
providing information)  by referring him to where  the information could be found. The 
transcript of a subsequent online chat between the parties suggests that Mr B did consult the 
platform based information. He referred to a video in which IB says the difference  between  a 
permanent and temporary order was not discussed but in which there  was an illustration of 
the drop down  menu in the platform that allows selection of either  option.  It also appears that 
a more detailed  video about  stop loss orders was equally  accessible to Mr B. 
I note the points made by Mr B about  the call he considers is key. I have also considered  the 
call on 14 February in which IB informs him that an order will be in place until he cancels it. 
Mr B would argue that it was relevant for IB to have differentiated between the types  of 
orders at that point  in the context of cancelling an order.  
This could  be a reasonable point but, at best,  it suggests that IB might have done more  to 
inform Mr B  not that it did not do enough  or that it misinformed Mr B. There  was no 
express indication  that Mr B wanted a permanent  order, not a temporary order. I am not 
persuaded that enough was said for IB to have understood this in either  of the calls.  By the 
Ref: DRN48905373time these  calls took place Mr B ought reasonably to have known how to achieve the order  
he wanted  based on information he had on 9 February and especially based on what 
appears to have been accessible and relevant  information he ought reasonably  to have 
gained from the platform. 
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Mr B was misinformed. Given this finding, 
the matter of compensation  including  IBs challenge against it  becomes redundant.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 March 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4890537