complaint
Ms S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)  unfairly declined her claim for 
treatment following a head injury. She also complains that, when it asked for a copy of the 
clinical letter  written by her psychiatrist, it wasnt open with her as to why it was needed.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was minded to uphold Ms S complaint.  I invited both parties to let me have 
anything in response they thought  was relevant.
Aviva didnt respond.
Ms S responded she sent us copies of invoices  relating to her treatment,  and also asked for an 
increase in the compensation; she said this was for the following reasons:
Increase in stress and introduction of suicidal  thoughts to due financial pressures.
oNeuropsychiatrist requested increase visits and seeing a psychologist due to 
stress causing problems  with balancing  my sleeping medications. The 
Neuropsychiatrist was originally  referred  by the neurologist for help with 
sleeplessness, as symptom of the concussion. Eventually,  the Neuropsychiatrist 
had to start managing the stress as well because it was having  effects  on my 
sleeplessness as well. He also then referred me to a psychologist in May.
oI have had to endure making choices about the level of care the doctors 
requested versus means to pay for the bills. This and the stress  slowed  down 
my recovery  process.  Especially, when I was on statutory sick pay and my 
company served me with redundancy  risk based  on the length and of my 
concussion recovery (this had resulted in more financial hardship as I have had 
to pay legal fees to bring an employment  tribunal claim).  I have been  on 
statutory sick pay for 20 weeks over the past 12 months. And have been on 
unpaid sick due to stress since December 13th,  2018.
oI have become over-leveraged on credit cards  to pay for my day to day so I can 
pay my rent with my little savings remaining.
oThis has been more  than an embarrassment. All of this stress has made  me 
suicidal at times, doctor's  note is attached  to confirm.
Financial cost of additional  Neuropsychiatrist and Psychologist visits.
oIn August the Neuropsychiatrist  began seeing  me for stress. Aviva paid for 
some sessions  which are not included  here.  I request that they pay £2000 
towards the cost of those visits if they are not covered under the terms and 
conditions.
Lost opportunities
oI was unable to put $5,000 in my US pension scheme which would  allowed the 
$5,000 to grow  tax free at market rate. I can only contribute during the tax year 
and then the opportunity is lost. This amount would have grown  to $45,000  at 
Ref: DRN4420500the 8% market rate for the next 30 years. Resulting  in a tax savings of $13,500 
(for a 30% average  tax rate) upon  retirement.
Changes to lifestyle
oI have had to move  into my living room  and give my bedroom to a lodger in 
order to afford my flat.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  theres a dispute about  what happened,  Ive 
based my decision  on what I thinks most  likely to have happened  in light of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision.
My provisional recommendation was for Aviva to deal with Ms S claim subject  to the remaining  
terms and conditions of the policy. As I explained in my provisional findings  Aviva cant  
reasonably rely on the exclusion it wanted  to, but that doesnt mean the claim wont be subject 
to other  exclusions. That is for Aviva to assess  and decide.
In the event of the claim being  accepted by Aviva, Ms S may be entitled to further 
compensation along the lines shes outlined in her response.  But that isnt within the scope  of 
this matter and so not for me to decide  here,  and Ms S would need to raise this with Aviva in 
the first instance before  this service could consider it. 
If Aviva do accept the claim Ms S should  provide  the copies of the invoices, she has paid or 
has outstanding,  directly to it.
Because of this Im not minded to increase  the compensation amount from that of my 
provisional findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
 Deal with Ms S claim  subject  to the remaining policy terms and conditions.  It should 
reimburse her for any eligible treatment she has already paid for under the claim.
 Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
 Pay £200 compensation
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest. Aviva must give Ms S a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken  off if she asks for one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ref: DRN4420500Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Ive considered the relevant  information about Ms Ss complaint. Based  on what Ive seen so far 
Im intending  to uphold this complaint, but for different reasons to the investigator.
Ref: DRN4420500Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence  that I get by 7 February 2019. But unless  the information  
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. Final  decisions will be 
published on our website. So that Ms S cant be identified,  Ill call her Ms S.
complaint
Ms S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  unfairly declined her claim  for treatment 
following a head injury. She also complains that, when it asked for a copy  of the clinical  letter 
written by her psychiatrist, it wasnt open with her as to why it was needed.
background
Ms S is covered under  a group private medical insurance  policy provided through her 
employer.
Ms S had a head injury  after falling backwards  and hitting  her head. The type of injury Ms S had 
suffered can cause depression so she was referred to a psychiatrist  to discuss how to prevent a 
depressive episode. Ms S claimed for this under the policy and, although the policy doesnt usually 
cover preventative treatment, the claim  was approved for one evaluation session with a psychiatrist.
Following this session,  Ms S was referred to a psychotherapist  for treatment and submitted a further 
claim to Aviva to cover  this. Aviva asked  to see the evaluation report that had been carried out by the 
psychiatrist. Ms S questioned if it needed to see all of the report and it confirmed it did.
The report said that at the time of the head injury Ms S had been drinking  excessively so
Aviva declined the claim relying  on the following  exclusion in the policy:
Benefits will not be available for:
1. Treatment  
a.  
b.  
c.  
d. 
e. for alcoholism, alcohol  abuse, solvent abuse, drug abuse  or addictive conditions 
of any kind and treatment of any illness  or injury arising directly or indirectly from any 
such abuse or addiction;
Aviva said that Ms S fell under the alcohol abuse part of the above exclusion.
Ms S was unhappy  with this and complained  to Aviva. She wanted the claim  to be accepted and for 
Aviva to remove all record of the letter  from the psychiatrist and any mention  of alcohol abuse to be 
removed from her record. Aviva didnt agree so Ms S brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator upheld the complaint in part, she said she thought Ms S drinking socially  at the time 
of the injury  couldnt fairly  be considered to be alcohol  abuse and so Aviva  should deal with the claim  
in line with remaining policy terms.  But she didnt  think Aviva had done anything  wrong in asking for 
the clinical  letter to assess  the claim,  and so didnt  think Aviva needed to remove it from the records.
Ms S agreed with the claim being upheld  but didnt agree with the investigators  findings about  the 
clinical letter. Aviva disagreed with the investigators findings.  Because  neither party agreed the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about  what  happened, Ive based my 
provisional decision  on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Ref: DRN4420500Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially  relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all 
of the submissions made before arriving at my provisional  decision.
clinical letter
Aviva has provided the call with Ms S when  it requested  the clinical  letter. When  it asks Ms S to 
provide the letter, she questions the need for her to send it in its entirety.  The call handler  says:
We need to know if it's a mental health issue, because if it is it needs to be dealt with by our 
mental health team  and it comes out of a separate budget on the policy - I know it's 6 pages 
long but if you could provide that update for us we can have a look at the information in there 
and make a decision.
Although Aviva didnt explicitly tell Ms S it would be using  the letter to assess  her claim the call 
handler did say Aviva  would look at the information  in there  and make a decision,  so I dont agree it 
misled her into providing the information.
I have considered if Aviva acted fairly in asking to see the clinical  letter and I think it did. I say this 
because its not unusual for an insurer  to ask to see relevant records or documents  when assessing  
a claim.  I have looked at the policy and under the heading claims procedure  it says:
a.  
b.   In order to confirm cover before  claiming  we must receive all necessary medical 
information at least 5 working days prior to any proposed treatment.  Usually  this will 
include a completed claim form but dependent upon the
Ref: DRN4420500policyholders service arrangements with us and at our discretion we may sometimes be 
able to take the necessary information over the telephone; if this is the case we will tell 
you at the time.
c.   
d.  All documents or material (including  but not limited to accounts, certificates and
X-rays) that we require to support a claim  shall be provided without expense  to us
(including if requested  by us a medical  report from your GP or specialist).
I think the policy terms are clear that Aviva can ask for documents to support the claim. Ms S could  
have refused to provide  it. But had she done so, Aviva  wouldve been allowed  to decline the claim on 
the basis  of it not having seen  enough information to properly consider
it.
So I dont  uphold this part of Ms S complaint and I wont be asking Aviva  to delete the report from its 
records.
claim
The clinical letter referenced that at the time of the accident Ms S had consumed an excess  of 
alcohol and goes on to say she was drunk.
Aviva considers that the reference in the letter amounts to alcohol abuse and so has declined 
Ms S claim for treatment  relying on the exclusion Ive already set out above.
In this situation,  it is for Aviva to prove that Ms S behaviour at the time of the accident was
alcohol abuse  if it is to be able to fairly rely on the exclusion. And I dont think it has. Ill explain  
why.
The policy doesnt have a definition for alcohol abuse. In Avivas submission  to this service it relies  on 
the NHS choices website  (NHS) to define what Alcohol  abuse is.
Aviva said:
I note the NHS site uses misuse, whereas the exclusion  states alcohol abuse, and the 
oxford dictionary states the definition of abuse  as 'The improper use of something', and 
misuse is defined as 'the wrong  or improper  use of something'.
I have looked at the oxford dictionary website and the definitions on there are:
Misuse: 1 Use (something) in the wrong way or for the wrong  purpose.
1.1 Treat (someone or something) badly or unfairly.
Abuse: 1 Use (something) to bad effect  or for a bad purpose; misuse.
1.1 Make excessive and habitual use of (alcohol  or drugs, especially
illegal ones)
Based on these definitions, Im of the opinion  that abuse is different from misuse. The bar is higher to 
prove it, as Aviva would have to show Ms S intake was not only excessive but also habitual,  rather 
than just showing  she had used alcohol in the wrong way on this particular occasion.
Ref: DRN4420500The information in the clinical letter is based  on the facts  that Ms S shared with the psychiatrist, so I 
have no reason to doubt they are a true reflection of what happened on the night of the accident.  I 
accept Ms S has admitted to consuming  an excess of alcohol, and so we can say this has been 
proven. But report does  not say that she regularly  does this or that its habitual.  Aviva has offered no 
other evidence support  that Ms S does this habitually.
In fairness  to all parties I have  also considered the exclusion against the NHS  definition of alcohol 
misuse as this is the one Aviva has opted to rely on in this instance.
The NHS website says:
Alcohol misuse means drinking excessively  more than the lower-risk limits of 
alcohol consumption
Lower-risk limits
To keep your risk of Alcohol related harm  low, the NHS recommend.
 Not regularly drinking  more than 14 units of alcohol per week
 If you drink as much  as 14 units a week, its best to spread  it evenly  over 3 or more 
days
 If youre trying to reduce  the amount of alcohol you drink, its a good  idea to have 
several alcohol-free days each week
While the clinical letter says Ms S consumed an excess of alcohol, there is no indication of how 
many units she actually  drank on the night she was hurt. Each person will have a different idea of 
what is excessive, as alcohol affects each  person  differently. Its not fair for Aviva to assume that just 
because Ms S said shed  drunk excessively that this shed had more  than 14 units.
Given the Oxford  dictionary  definition of abuse  hasnt  been met and the NHS definition for alcohol 
misuse also hasnt been met, Im not satisfied Aviva has proven that Ms S injury was caused either 
directly or indirectly by alcohol abuse. It follows that Aviva cant  fairly rely on
the exclusion above and so should deal with Ms S claim subject to the remaining  policy  terms 
and conditions.
Ms S has told us that the tag associated with Alcohol  abuse has been causing  her to worry and its 
clear from her correspondence  with us that she has felt embarrassment because  of this. So to 
recognise this Aviva  should pay Ms S £200.
Ref: DRN4420500K822xmy provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint  and require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
 Deal with Ms S claim subject to the remaining  policy terms and conditions.  It should 
reimburse her for any eligible treatment she has already paid for under  the claim.
 Add simple  interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate 
of interest  is 8% a year.  
 Pay £200  compensation
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Aviva to take off tax from this interest.  Aviva must  give Ms S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
Amber ortimer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4420500