K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Ms M say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Ms M say that they were unaware  that they had taken MPPI  they also say that Mr 
M didnt visit the branch and that Ms M took the paperwork home for him to sign. But I think  
BoS made it clear that Mr and Ms M didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS has provided paperwork from the time the sale took place  including  a mortgage  
application, and a separate MPPI application.  The mortgage application presents the MPPI 
as an optional product  and both Mr and Ms M have  signed to select  the policy.  This is 
separate to their signatures for the mortgage  itself. They  have also both signed the MPPI 
application form.
So even though Mr M says he didnt visit the branch in person,  I still think  that the paperwork 
clearly shows  that the MPPI is a separate, optional  product. And as Mr M was entering in to 
an important financial agreement, I would expect him to have read through the paperwork he 
was signing.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Ms M so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for 
them. Like most insurance policies, Mr and Ms Ms MPPI policy  does have some limits and 
exclusions. Based on what  Ive seen of Mr and Mss circumstances  at the time, I dont think 
they wouldve  been affected  by these  and they also seem to have a need for the cover. 
Ms M didnt tell this service about any pre-existing medical conditions,  however, I can see 
that on the MPPI application, a manual change has been made  which indicated that Ms M 
had some kind of medical condition for which she had seen a doctor  within the 12 months 
prior to applying for the mortgage and MPPI. I went back and shared this document  with her 
representatives and asked them to check this, they then told us that Ms M had treatment for 
a condition in January  2000  but that she hadnt needed any ongoing care and shed never 
taken any medication. Looking at the policy document for Mr and Ms Ms MPPI,  the condition  
she had isnt excluded.  So I dont think this made the policy  unsuitable for them. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Ms M about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN44873912Ive thought about everything Mr and Ms M has said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Ms M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Ms M back  some of the 
cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Ms M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4487391