K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 6th 
December 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld 
and what Satsuma needed to do to put things right. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further comments and evidence. 
Satsuma responded  on 20 December 2019, and has said that it accepts my provisional  
findings. 
Mr C has provided us with some further comments. Although I am only summarising here 
what Mr C has said, I have considered his entire response carefully before writing this 
decision.
Mr C had two further  points to make. Firstly he says the balance payable for loan 5 should 
be £1267  and not £1317.  He says that Satsuma may have added charges without him 
knowing about it and this needs to be addressed.
In addition, he believes that because Satsuma reported the final loan on his credit file as one 
that had missed payments that this had consequences for him with other lines of credit.  He 
said he had his credit  card limited restricted and also had to pay higher interest rates.  He 
believes he should be compensated  for this.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says the balance  outstanding for loan 5 is not correct and that it is £50 higher than it 
should be. He believes Satsuma may have added charges without him knowing. In my 
provisional decision, I upheld Mr Cs complaint about loan 5 and have asked Satsuma to put 
things right here. This includes recalculating  what is owed by Mr C by removing  all interest  
and charges as well as taking  into account  any payments made by him. This will leave only 
the principal sum borrowed that Mr C still owes. 
When Satsuma does  this, I think it would be helpful if it could clearly explain to Mr C in 
writing the interest  and charges that it has taken off and what is left to repay, so that Mr C 
can see that this has happened and that he can be assured that the amount left to repay is 
the remaining  principal  sum only.
Mr C also believes  he has suffered  further loss because Satsuma has recorded on his credit  
file that he has missed payments when he was in a repayment plan and he says that this 
led to him having  to pay a higher interest  rate on a credit card as well as have other 
problems obtaining  credit. So I have  looked into this.
Ref: DRN40117172In doing so I can see that the missing payment information recorded by Satsuma on Mr Cs 
credit file wouldve  been just one element that made  up his credit rating. Having reviewed  a 
copy of Mr Cs credit file, there were  a number of other adverse entries  at the same  time that 
wouldve influenced his score, including  a default from an unsecured loan and other  credit  
accounts that were  in arrears. So although  I do think Satsuma should  remove any negative 
information on Mr Cs credit file about  loan 5 for the reasons I have given  in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think it is fair for me to conclude that Mr C has suffered any further detriment 
because of what Satsuma  did here.  This is because I think  Mr Cs credit file had enough  
adverse entries  from other credit providers  that would have affected his credit score  anyway. 
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Satsuma now need to put things right. 
putting things right
Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five on Mr Cs credit  file; 
write to Mr C and explain what it has deducted and how much  Mr C has left to repay.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As I have already  mentioned,  Mr C still owes Satsuma some of the principal balance he 
borrowed on his final loan (loan five). Satsuma may deduct this from the compensation that 
is due to him. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should  be recalculated to remove 
any interest and charges,  but taking account of any repayments Mr C has made on that loan 
as though they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
After Satsuma has made its deductions, it looks like Mr C will have a balance remaining to 
pay. I would  remind  Satsuma that it should treat Mr C positively and sympathetically when 
dealing with this repayment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Cs complaint and direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
Ref: DRN40117173ombudsman
Ref: DRN40117174EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  five instalment loans  Satsuma  provided to Mr C between  June 2017 and 
October 2017. Details of these five loans are as follows:
Loan Taken Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 26/06/2017 12 £1000 £166.00
2 19/07/2017 12 £1000 £166.00
3 08/08/2017 12 £1000 £166.00
4 30/08/2017 12 £1000 £166.00
5 11/10/2017 12 £1000 £166.00
Mr C withdrew from the first four loans within the time stated in the terms and paid back the capital 
without incurring any interest  or charges. Mr C then did not meet his repayments as agreed for loan 
five. He says he has agreed a repayment plan for this loan. There is a balance that is still outstanding.
Mr C says that Satsuma  should  have seen that he had problems managing his finances and had 
several short  term loans open at any one time, when it agreed to lend to him. He also says that 
Satsuma has recorded on his credit  file that he has missed payments for loan five, and he thinks it 
shouldnt have done this as he has agreed a repayment plan.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint and thought Satsuma  did nothing wrong  when it 
agreed to lend the five loans to him. Mr C didnt  agree and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr C could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN40117175There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether Mr 
C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Satsuma asked Mr C for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. For the first four loans, I cant see that there was anything untoward  in its credit checks that 
should have alerted Satsuma to ask further questions, albeit the information that it has shown our 
service is not detailed  in anyway.
For the first four loans,  given the amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time 
and his history with Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information 
Mr C provided or the information Satsuma shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr C was saying. So I cant  say it was wrong for Satsuma to have 
provided these loans.
In addition, I think  its worth stating that Mr C didnt  pay any interest or charges for the first four loans 
and so even if I did find any wrong doing here, I wouldnt expect in this case  for Satsuma to do 
anything to put things right as Mr C hasnt lost out at all. He had simply repaid  the money  that he had 
been provided  by Satsuma.
By loan 5 the amount  Mr C had asked for though had not reduced in value at all. And he had 
repeatedly taken out a loan and then shortly afterwards withdrawn from it. He did this on four 
occasions within the space  of around 3 months. 
So I think Satsuma couldve  realised at this point  that Mr C may have some longer  term financial  
problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow problem. Satsuma 
shouldve at this stage become concerned about  whether it knew enough about Mr Cs true financial 
situation.
I think  that it wouldve  been  proportionate to fully review Mr Cs financial situation before  approving 
loan five. And I think that Satsuma needed  to verify the information it found  out where possible.  This is 
to make sure Mr C was in position to make the repayments sustainably.  I dont  think Satsuma did this. 
So I need to think about what it wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr C has provided some information about his financial  circumstances which  includes some  bank 
statements and a recent  credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  Satsuma wouldve seen at 
the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I 
think its reasonable  to rely on it.
Ref: DRN40117176This shows that Mr C was having problems managing his money.  Satsuma wouldve found  out that Mr 
C was paying a significant  amount to other creditors. And hed also been repaying a significant  
amount to three short term lenders at the time he applied  for loan five. 
I think  that Satsuma  wouldve found out this information if it had made  proportionate checks. And I 
think it wouldve seen  Mr C wouldnt have  been able repay loan five in a sustainable way. So I think  
that Satsuma shouldnt have  given loan five to Mr C and I think he lost out as a result of this. So Im 
upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C says Satsuma has recorded on his credit  file that he has missed  payments. Whereas  he says he 
has agreed a repayment plan and feels this should be reflected. I am now minded  to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about loan five and so what I will be asking Satsuma to do to put things right, should deal 
with this issue. 
Ref: DRN4011717