K820x#14complaint
Miss and Mrs D are unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc has dealt  with them  and with its 
customer service.  
background
Miss D contacted Santander as she thought theyd been overcharged for their account. And 
shes unhappy that it didnt make more of an effort to contact them when emails it sent 
werent opened. She says it shouldve written. She also thinks Santanders staff were  rude 
and shes unhappy  with the time its taken to respond and deal with matters.
Santander has explained that the £9 charges applied  to the account were valid.  But as a 
gesture of goodwill its refunded them. Itd sent Miss and Mrs D secure emails but they didnt  
appear to have been opened. And it has also credited their account with £40 for the service 
issues.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said:
Santanders system notes show the account  activity and records  the communications  
between the parties. These show emails being  sent.  Although some remained 
unopened Santander made  a reasonable attempt to contact  Miss and Mrs D. 
There were  also some  phone calls. And one on 19 March 2018  couldve gone better. 
But Santander has made a payment of £40 to reflect this. Thats fair.
Santander added the £9 charges to the account fairly. Even so its refunded them  to 
the account. Thats fair. 
She wont be asking  Santander  to do any more.
Miss D doesnt agree  and has sked for an ombudsman review.  She says Santander  could 
see emails werent opened  and it made  no attempt to contact them  in another  way. It 
couldve called or written. Compensation  of £40 isnt enough for three years of attempted 
contact. Shed agree to £100.  
The investigator responded that there was nothing in the terms and conditions that required 
Santander to use more than one method of communication. It didnt make a mistake  using  
email and did what it was required  to do. Itd also responded  to an email about the account 
charges and it isnt fair to say it took three years to communicate with them.
Miss D also says Santander, as a data controller, would be in breach of the Data  Protection  
Act if it held data such as address and phone  number and didnt use these methods of 
communication.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45384822Miss D has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
It appears Santander was entitled  to apply the £9 of charges to the account. Even so its 
already refunded them to the account  as a gesture of goodwill. I think  thats fair and 
reasonable.
So far as the method of communication  is concerned, I think  Santander was entitled to use 
email to contact Miss and Mrs D. It wasnt obliged to use other  means of communication  or 
to send duplicate  communications by other means even if, for example, emails sent werent 
opened. Its unfortunate if some secure  messages  sent to Mrs D werent  opened but thats 
not Santanders fault.
The information supplied  by Santander  also shows it replied reasonably promptly  to the 
communications it received about the account operation,  charges and the complaint. I agree 
with the investigator  that it doesnt  appear  Miss D had to wait three years for any answer.
Its evident Santander couldve dealt with Miss D better on occasion  particularly in a call in 
March 2018 and its customer service couldve been  better.  Santander  has acknowledged 
this and credited  the account  with £40 compensation. But Miss D says this isnt enough and 
she wants £100. 
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with account problems, a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally 
recommend theyre  compensated for this. 
Here Miss D would like £100 compensation. But I think  that would be too much. Taking 
everything into account, including the levels of award we make, I think  the £40 compensation 
Santander has already paid is fair for the distress  and inconvenience caused to Miss and 
Mrs D by the service issues. And I dont  think I can reasonably require Santander  to pay or 
do any more. 
  
Overall, although I recognise  Miss Ds strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Miss D has also raised issues about  the way Santander has handled her and Mrs Ds data. 
Thats not something I can comment on and if she remains unhappy I suggest she might  
wish to contact the Information  Commissioners Office.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4538482