K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss B says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1995.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss B owed on her store card. The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss B couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss B that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Miss B says she was just told where to sign on the 
form, without any explanation.
Ive been given a copy of Miss Bs application  form completed at the time of the sale and I 
can see that there is a section for the PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept  or 
decline to take out the PPI. On Miss Bs form the yes box has been ticked. If Miss B didnt 
want to take out the PPI she could have  ticked the no box. 
Miss B says she was just told where to sign on the form, without any explanation.  Ive 
thought about what Miss B has said but, as she was signing an application for financial credit 
I would have expected her to have read through the document  to ensure that everything  
entered was correct. And if she hadnt  agreed to taking out the PPI, or didnt know  what  this 
was, I think she would  have questioned  this with the sales person at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Miss B 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  and from Miss Bs explanation of the sale,  I dont 
think FICL recommended the policy to Miss B. So it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for her. But FICL did need to make sure it gave  Miss B clear enough information about  
the policy to enable her to decide  for herself  if she should take the policy. 
Ref: DRN49911342Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Miss B 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.
Miss B has said that she didnt need  the policy as she was entitled to six months  full sick 
pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work.  But this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to her sick pay, and potentially for longer. And it would have provided cover if Miss B 
had lost her job. As Miss B has said she had no other means with which to meet  her 
repayments if she wasnt working, I think this could have provided a useful benefit.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said, including what  she has said about being  able 
to ask her family and friends to help meet her repayments. But support from others cant  be 
guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial assistance. So this point doesnt alter my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Miss B has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4991134