K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Harlands Services Ltd failed to take a payment out of his account by 
direct debit and have added unfair charges to his account.
background
Mr M accepts there wasnt enough  money in his account on 17 November 2018 and so a 
direct debit to Harlands failed which resulted in a £25 administrative fee. He says Harlands 
told him it would  request  the money from his bank on 30 November 2018  which  included  the 
administrative fee. Mr M says he was told by his bank  that no attempt to take the money  was 
made. But Harlands said it did and has charged him further charges as well as passing the 
increasing debt to another company. Mr M says thats unfair  and says he will pay the original 
amount and the fee but not the further  costs  which  he says were incurred through no fault of 
his.
Harlands says Mr M missed the payment  on 17 November 2018 and so it correctly  applied a 
fee in line with the account terms and conditions. It says it tried to take the payment on 30 
November 2018  but Mr Ms bank  rejected  the request as it was for a different amount  (to the 
agreed direct debit amount). Harlands  says its up to Mr M and or his bank to make the 
payment and says it acted  in line with the account  terms  and conditions  by passing the debt 
to a third party company.  It also says it gave Mr M a document confirming the direct  debit 
had been rejected.
Mr M had already brought  his complaint  to us but our investigator didnt think  Harlands had 
made a mistake or acted unfairly. The investigator thought the fee of £25 was correctly 
added to the direct debit  amount and that Harlands had provided evidence  the direct debit 
had been rejected. But Mr M hadnt  provided  any evidence  from his bank that Harlands  
hadnt asked for the payment despite  a number  of requests for that information. The 
investigator accepted  there was enough  money  in Mr Ms account on 30 November  2018  
and also accepted the payment didnt appear on Mr Ms account statement even though the 
missed payment of 17 November 2018  did appear on it.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed. He says his account 
statements show the money wasnt applied for and says whatss happened isnt his fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that the payment on 17 November 2018 failed and that 
Harlands were entitled to charge Mr M a £25 administrative fee. Im satisfied that fee was 
correctly applied in line with the account terms and conditions which I think Mr M agreed to.
I can see that Harlands told Mr M it would apply for the payment again  on 30 November 
2018. I can also see from its records that the payment was rejected by Mr Ms bank on the 
basis the amount  differed from the agreed  amount. So Im satisfied Harlands did apply for 
the money as it said it would. I accept that normally a direct debit amount can vary but I cant  
fairly hold Harlands responsible for the decision made by Mr Ms bank.
Ref: DRN48537292I appreciate Mr M says he was told by his bank that Harlands hadnt asked for the payment 
on 30 November 2018. But I can also see that Mr M was asked to provide evidence  of that 
from his bank and has not done  so. So Ive come to the conclusion  that its more likely that 
Mr Ms bank did receive the request for the reasons Ive explained.
I accept that Mr M did have enough money in his bank  on 30 November  2018.  And that 
unlike the attempt to collect the money on 17 November 2017, the transaction  doesnt  
appear on Mr Ms account statement. But I dont think that matters  as I find the request was 
made by Harlands.
I can see that Harlands told Mr M on 3 December 2018 that the payment failed. So Im 
satisfied that Mr M ought to have known that whatever had happened he was liable under 
the terms of the contract to make  the repayments. I can see that he didnt and so I dont  
think Harlands made  a mistake. And I think its acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions in those  circumstances  by passing the debt to a third party  company.  
Overall Im satisfied that Harlands hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. Im also satisfied 
its dealt fairly with Mr Ms complaint and provided him with evidence that the payment had 
been rejected  by his bank.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4853729