K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  esure Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance policy.
background
On 10 October 2017, Miss S was involved in an accident with another  car. Miss S was found 
to be at fault. She later claimed  on her policy for the damage to her car.
esure said the information Miss S gave about  the accident wasnt  accurate, so they declined 
the claim.  They also cancelled the policy. Miss S complained and said esure  were  wrong  to 
decline the claim and cancel the policy. She also said esure  caused  unnecessary delays. 
esure didnt  uphold the complaint.
Miss S didn't think that was fair and brought  her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. He felt that esure  dealt  with Miss S fairly. As Miss S didnt agree 
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss S, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Miss Ss points carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if esure have dealt with Miss S in a fair 
and reasonable way.
declining the claim and cancelling the policy
The policy allows  esure to decline a claim and to cancel the policy  in certain circumstances.
Miss S didnt report the accident to esure as she was required to do under the policy. esure 
found out about it when  a claim was received from the other  drivers  insurer. esure then 
investigated the circumstances of the accident and gathered information.  That included 
getting Miss Ss version of events.  A statement was also taken from Miss S and the other 
drivers version of events was also obtained.
esure concluded that the accident didnt happen as Miss S described. They said there  were  
a number of inconsistencies in her evidence, in particular over the number of occupants in 
her car. Given their concerns over the accuracy of her version of events, esure declined her 
claim and cancelled her policy. On the information  I have seen, I think  their decision was 
reasonable. So Im not upholding this part of Miss Ss complaint.
delays
I can see that initially esure were looking into dealing with Miss Ss claim for the damage to 
her car. They first asked  her on 27 October 2017 to provide an estimate from her chosen 
repairer. I can see a number of further requests were made, but the estimate  wasnt  
provided to esure until 30 January 2018,  three  months after they first asked for it. I cant  say 
esure were responsible  for this delay. Soon after receiving  the estimate, esure investigated  
the claim which involved appointing an independent  investigator, interviewing Miss S and 
Ref: DRN46102992looking into other information. esure then informed Miss S in early  April 2018 that they were 
declining her claim and cancelling the policy. That process took two months.  Having 
considered the investigation esure  carried out, I dont think  there has been an unreasonable  
delay. Im therefore not upholding  this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4610299