K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse, trading as Jaguar Financial 
Services, have managed his account  poorly.
background
Mr D took receipt of a new car in January 2017. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Black Horse.
In July 2018 he told Black Horse  he wanted  to voluntarily terminate the agreement. He made 
the settlement  payment in September 2018 but Black Horse returned  the payment to his 
account the next month and then sent a letter to him to explain the payment was late and a 
default had therefore been  reported to his credit file.
Black Horse  apologised. They said theyd been unable to identify the payment  as it was 
labelled settlement  and wasnt for the amount they were expecting.  They agreed that they 
could have done more to trace the payment and offered Mr D £100 to compensate him for 
their error and they also reduced his settlement figure by £75.
But Mr D was disappointed with their response so he referred  his complaint to this service 
and our investigator provided  her opinion. She thought Black Horses response  had been 
reasonable and she didnt  think it would  be fair to ask them to take any further action. 
But Mr D disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr D so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
I can understand Mr Ds frustration. Hed done nothing wrong and had paid the settlement on 
his agreement as required. It must therefore have  been distressing to be pursued for a 
payment hed made and to be told that adverse  reports had been made to his credit file.
Ref: DRN42984292I understand that Mr D would like Black  Horse to do more than they have but Im persuaded 
that, in the circumstances,  theyve done enough  to compensate him for the mistake they 
made.
Black Horse  couldnt find the payment  that Mr D had made. I can understand that this would 
have been difficult  as it was made out for £75 less than they were expecting  and didnt  have 
the agreement  number as a reference. Theyve  explained  that they could have done a little 
more to trace the payment by asking Mr D how much the payment had been made out for. 
That was a mistake and theyve provided  £100 compensation and agreed to remove  the 
uplift fee of £75 from the settlement figure.
When the settlement  wasnt received Black Horse have explained that their policy is to send 
the payment back to the account  it came from. Having done that Mr Ds account was in 
arrears and Black Horse had an obligation to report it to the credit reference  agencies. I can 
see that they confirmed they removed the default  when Mr D alerted them to the problem. 
So whilst I understand that would have  been  distressing for Mr D I dont think  it would be fair 
to suggest this was a mistake.
Overall, I think Black  Horse have now provided reasonable redress  and Im therefore  not 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4298429