K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly held him responsible  
for causing an accident under this motor policy. This has meant he is now required to pay 
the costs of the hire car under his credit hire arrangement, which Mr H thinks is 
unreasonable.
background
In January 2018, Mr H was involved  in an accident with a bus. When  he reported  it to 
Admiral, it was of the view based on his account  of the accident,  that it was likely not to be 
his fault.
So it asked him if he wanted to use the non-fault service provided by a credit hire company  
which meant he wouldnt need to claim the cost of repairing his car under  his policy  and 
neither would he have to pay any excess.  And that he would receive the use of a hire car 
equivalent to his own to use when his car was being repaired.
Mr H said he would  like to use this, and Admiral  then passed him over to the credit hire 
company.   
However then the bus company said Mr H was responsible for the accident. And around the 
same time, the credit hire company noted some pre-accident damage on Mr Hs car. So the 
matter was passed back to Admiral  who investigated  the circumstances of the accident.  Its 
conclusion was that it was likely it would be unable to defend the bus companys claim. 
So on this basis the credit hire company asked Mr H to pay for his hire car which  they 
provided. This cost over £6,000.
Mr H complained to Admiral. Admiral didnt  think it had done anything wrong, but it paid Mr H 
£75 compensation  for its delays and some  misinformation, he received.
Mr H remained  unhappy and so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator  didnt think 
Admiral had done anything wrong.  Mr H disagreed  so his complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First I should make  clear, I am only dealing with the actions of Admiral in this complaint, not 
the credit  hire company. Thats the subject  matter of another complaint Mr H has with this 
service. That means Im not considering whether  its fair that the credit  hire company has 
asked Mr H to repay the costs of the hire car he received under his agreement  with them.
Here, there are two issues for me to consider, the first being whether Admiral made the 
referral to the credit hire company fairly  and the second being  whether its decision on not to 
defend the claim  by the bus company was reasonable bearing  in mind the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs policy. 
Ref: DRN45863212I consider that Admiral  did make the referral to the credit hire company reasonably. Thats  
because on the basis of the circumstances  of the accident as detailed by Mr H, it was a 
reasonable assumption for Admiral  to make at that time, that it was unlikely to be his fault. 
The advantages of using a credit  hire company were then discussed  with Mr H. Therefore I 
dont think Admiral did anything wrong  in discussing the services of the credit hire company 
with Mr H. I also consider it adequately explained  that the credit hire company would also 
discuss everything else with him and the call recording mentions specifically that they would 
discuss what happens if liability  is subsequently  disputed. Its also clear on the call recording 
that Mr H clearly and freely consented  to be passed on to the credit  hire company. The call 
recording then shows that Mr H was transferred  to the credit  hire company. So what  
happened after that is a matter between  Mr H and the credit hire company and does  not 
form part of this decision, as we dont  make decisions  against two businesses  in the same 
complaint. However  I dont think Admiral did anything wrong in making  the referral.
Given the subsequent claim against  Mr Hs policy with Admiral  by the bus company, Admiral  
were under a duty to investigate the circumstances of the accident. My role and the role of 
this service is not to decide who was responsible for causing the accident as thats a matter 
for the courts only. My role and that of this service is solely  to assess whether Admiral  came 
to a reasonable decision on the matter, given the terms and conditions of the policy.
As the investigator  said, in common with virtually all motor insurers Admiral  is entitled to 
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim and admit negligence for any claim on its 
policyholders behalf. So I dont find this unusual or unfair.  However it must do this 
reasonably. Here, Mr H said the bus pulled away from the bus stop clipping the rear of his 
car. However the bus company  said Mr H pulled in front of the bus to turn left, thereby 
causing the bus the clip the rear of his car. The bus company produced  CCTV (of which we 
havent seen as Admiral  havent been  able to send it to us in a viewable format) and it said a 
witness thought  the accident was Mr Hs fault. 
Initially its clear  Admiral  remained  of the view that Mr H wasnt at fault beyond  the first call it 
had with him. However once it accessed  its solicitors advice taking  all the evidence  into 
account, it decided  it would be in difficulty in defending  any court case  successfully. It agreed 
the CCTV evidence  is inconclusive  but on balance it believed  it was more likely  that Mr H 
would be held liable, if the matter went to court. 
Given Admiral  took its own legal advice, which also considered all the evidence  to include 
the inconclusive CCTV plus the potential of the witness  being  unreliable,  theres nothing to 
show me that it didnt  take reasonable care in coming to its decision. Admiral is entitled  to 
rely on what its legal  advisers advise,  who in turn are under  professional  obligations to 
provide objective  advice.  Had Admiral  not taken  legal  advice, I might well have viewed things 
differently. But because it did, more so since this wasnt a clear-cut case based on the 
allegations made by the bus company, I consider  the fact that it asked its solicitors for advice 
to be reasonable
Mr H said that Admiral  told him in May that he wouldnt be responsible for the car hire costs  
from the credit hire company. Unfortunately there  is no record of this call in Admirals file, 
which does follow in a chronological format with each contact with any party  being  dealt with 
as it arose  in the system.  Sadly it also appears that Mr Hs phone  records only shows  calls 
he made rather than those he received. So I have no evidence of what  Mr H said Admiral  
told to him.
Ref: DRN45863213I have carefully read Mr Hs comments on the investigators view which he detailed  for me to 
read. I fully appreciate  and understand how distressed he is that the credit hire company is 
requesting he refunds  them  the cost of the car hire. However that remains  a matter between  
Mr H and them. 
Admiral agreed it delayed dealing with liability decision  and then gave Mr H incorrect 
information. It paid him a total of £75 compensation for this. I consider this was adequate in 
those circumstances.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4586321