K820x#14Complaint
Miss S complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds  renewal notice 
contained incorrect information about the age of her cat. 
Background
Miss Ss cat was born on 9 March  2009 and has been insured with Red Sands since 
30 March 2012.  The policy  is annually renewable.  On 2 March 2019,  Red Sands sent Miss S 
an email notice that said her policy would automatically renew on 30 March 2019. It said that 
as Miss Ss cat was now over the age of ten, a co-payment would be payable in the event of 
a claim.  
Miss S contacted Red Sands  to make a complaint. She was unhappy that the renewal 
notice, and the corresponding policy documentation,  had been sent to her by email.  And she 
was particularly unhappy that Red Sands had referred to her cat being over the age of ten, 
when it wouldnt be turning ten until 9 March 2019. 
Red Sands  confirmed that the co-payment would still be applicable  from Miss Ss renewal 
date as her cat would  have turned  ten by then. It apologised for sending the renewal notice 
electronically and arranged for it to be resent  in the post. It amended the wording of the 
renewal notice to say that because Miss Ss cat will be over the age of ten, a co-payment  
would be payable in the event of a claim.  This was sent on 4 March 2019.  
Red Sands  logged a complaint for Miss S, which it responded to on 9 April 2019. In its 
response, it accepted Miss S had previously asked  for documentation to be sent by post, 
and again apologised for sending this years renewal notice by email. It gave a further 
explanation that the co-payment applied from the first renewal after a cats tenth birthday. 
It referred to entries in Miss Ss policy documents confirming this.   
Miss S then asked our service to carry out an impartial  review. She thought  Red Sands 
should apologise and pay her £500 for the distress and inconvenience  she was caused  by 
the incorrect information included in its renewal  notice. She also said she was unhappy  with 
the length of time it took Red Sands to resolve her complaint.  She felt Red Sands delayed 
responding until her cat turned ten to make  switching  insurers more  difficult.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He didnt think  Red Sands 
covering letter was necessarily wrong,  as it was referring to the terms that would apply from 
the renewal date. He also felt that Red Sands had responded to Miss S within the timescales  
set by the financial regulator and hadnt deliberately delayed its handling of her complaint.  
Miss S didnt agree so I need to reach a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I appreciate  this 
will be disappointing  for Miss S, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The policy summary  Miss S was sent when she bought  the policy in 2012 highlighted that a 
co-payment would apply once her pet reached a certain age. Originally, the co-payment 
applied to all pets over the age of eight, but Red Sands has since  amended the terms and 
the co-payment now only applies to cats once  they reach the age of ten. 
Ref: DRN43701652The policy summary  enclosed with Miss Ss 2019  renewal notice also contained  clear  
information about the co-payment. It said, a co-payment is payable  for dogs aged eight 
years and older and for cats aged  ten years  and older. So, for the avoidance  of doubt, 
Im satisfied Red Sands brought  the co-payment  to Miss Ss attention, and that it was fair to 
apply it from her renewal date in 2019  because her cat had turned ten three weeks  earlier.  
Miss S was unhappy  with the wording  of Red Sands renewal notice because it suggested 
her cat was already ten when it was still nine. I agree with Miss S that at the time the letter 
was sent, her cat wasnt yet over the age of ten. So, I think it was factually incorrect for 
Red Sands  to say that it was. It was important  for Red Sands to highlight that a co-payment  
would apply from the renewal date, because  the cat was going to be ten by then. But I 
accept that it could have worded the renewal notice more clearly.  
Its also unclear why Red Sands sent the renewal notice by email  when Miss S had 
previously requested for documents to be sent by post. But it was apologetic  about  this when 
Miss S called to complain.  It updated Miss Ss contact preferences to make sure it didnt 
happen again, and resent the renewal  notice by post two days later. In doing so, it amended  
the notice so that the wording accurately reflected the age of Miss Ss cat at the time. 
So, while I think Red Sands made  some  errors  here, I think  it acted  quickly  to put those 
errors right for Miss S. I recognise Miss S had to make a phone call to Red Sands to bring  
the errors  to its attention, but I dont think this justifies an award of compensation. 
Miss S also feels Red Sands delayed responding to her complaint until after her cats tenth  
birthday to make it more  difficult  for her to switch insurers. The regulators rules set out that 
insurers should respond to complaints within eight weeks.  And Red Sands comfortably met 
that time frame here. Furthermore,  I dont think Miss S was prevented from switching 
insurers while her complaint was still outstanding. So, Im not asking Red Sands to do 
anything further  in relation to this aspect  of Miss Ss complaint either.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.  
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4370165