K822xComplaint
Miss H is unhappy with The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
she made on a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  she took with a secured loan. 
Background
Very briefly, Miss H fell into arrears  with her loan which was taken over a term of ten years.  
The arrears  worsened  following her involvement  in a road traffic accident  in 2010, after 
which she couldnt fully work. 
In May 2012, Prudential  declined Miss Hs claim for disability  benefits under the PPI policy.  
The third party lender took court action  against her and threatened to take possession  of her 
home due to her outstanding loan repayments  totalling around £25,000. 
Then, in June 2019 and following our involvement,  Prudential reviewed the evidence and 
agreed to pay Miss Hs claim. It apologised for not paying it in 2012, when it says it should 
have, and offered  her compensation for the financial losses  shed incurred,  and also for the 
substantial distress and inconvenience shed suffered since then.  
Unhappy with Prudentials  offer,  Miss H pursued her complaint with us. 
Our adjudicator was of the view that Prudentials offer was fair. The adjudicator felt the offer 
sought to put Miss H in the position  shed have been  in had the claim been paid in May 2012  
rather than seven years later. The adjudicator  didnt  ask Prudential to pay additional 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  as she felt the £3,000  it had already offered 
was sufficient.    
As Miss H didnt accept  the adjudicators findings,  the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, in this decision  Ive dealt not with the lending  which was undertaken by another 
financial business  but instead  focussed on the actions of Prudential  as the underwriter of 
Miss Hs PPI policy. Having done so, Ive decided that Prudentials offer to Miss H is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Let me start by saying  I sympathise with Miss H for everything shes been through  since  
2010. Not only did she suffer  life-changing injuries  in the accident, but she struggled to work 
as a result. To make matters worse, she fell further behind  on her loan repayments  than she 
already was, and was taken to court by the lender and threatened with repossession. 
This must all have been extremely difficult for Miss H, especially since   as Prudential now 
accepts and apologises for  the PPI policy didnt respond as it should have in 2012. Given 
that, it follows that Prudentials responsible for the direct and foreseeable consequences of 
the benefits not being paid when they were due. 
Ref: DRN42135452As part of its offer of June 2019, Prudential said it was willing to pay the maximum of 24 
monthly benefit payments, less the refund of premiums Miss H had already received. This is 
in line with our general approach to mis-sale compensation, where any amounts paid in 
claims and any refund  of premiums can be offset against each other. 
Because the claim wasnt paid in 2012, its likely  additional interest was applied  to Miss Hs 
account. Prudentials  looked at that, together with the fact that Miss H was already in arrears  
before she stopped working. As a result, its offered to pay the difference  between  the 
interest that would have  been owed in the ordinary course of events and the additional 
interest charged as a result of the claim not being paid. Ive seen nothing  to suggest the way 
in which  Prudentials worked this outs unfair.
Finally, regarding the extreme upset and inconvenience Miss H has been  put to over the 
years, and the distress shes been  caused,  I believe the substantial  amount of £3,000 
Prudentials already offered is fair. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Miss H says she shouldnt be held responsible 
for the fees that were  charged to her account as a result of the lender taking her to court.  
However, I note that Prudentials offer of £3,000  included repayment of a summons fee of 
£100 and solicitors costs  of £69.50  that she was charged in 2012. Im satisfied that 
represents appropriate compensation for this element of her losses.   
It can be very difficult to arrive at a figure for other losses that can never truly be quantified  in 
monetary terms. But taking everything  into account,  including our published approach  to 
compensation for non-financial losses, I dont consider that Prudential  needs to pay any 
more than its already  offered in this respect either.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require The Prudential Bank  Assurance  Company Limited  to pay 
Miss H in line with the offer set out in its final response letter  of June 2019,  if it hasnt already 
done so. That included payment of:
The maximum benefit payable for disability claims,  less the amount Miss H received  
as mis-sale compensation; and
Compensation for additional interest  charged to the account as a result of the claim 
not being paid in 2012; and
£3,000 as compensation both for the distress  and inconvenience Miss H has been 
caused as well as for the fees and costs she was charged due to court action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4213545