K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about the way esure  Insurance Limited (esure) has handled  her claim for 
repairs to her car after a traffic accident  and that its authorised  repair garage allowed the 
car to be seized and sold off.
background
Miss A was involved in a car accident  and contacted esure to claim for repairs. It arranged 
for one of its network  of repair garages (which Ill refer to as B) to carry out the work and the 
car was booked in for 16 May 2018.  The repairs took longer than originally expected and the 
car was returned to Miss A on 8 June 2018. B repaired the rear bumper,  but Miss A 
contacted esure to say the parking sensor  still wasnt working. 
esure arranged  for B to take the car back for further work to fix the sensor. It delayed 
responding to the complaint and the second repair was booked in for 19 July 2018.
On 30 July 2018, the car was seized  by a recovery firm acting  on behalf of two different 
councils, due to unpaid parking fines that pre-dated the accident. Over a week  later, Miss A 
learned that her car had been taken and had been  parked on the street  outside  a different 
business at the time, rather than securely  on Bs premises. The car was later auctioned off. 
Miss A wants esure to take responsibility  for the loss of her car, and either  replace it or pay 
her its value  which she says is £2,000. Miss A is also concerned that she had to pay extra  
costs for a hire car during the first repair.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt the reason Miss A lost the car was 
ultimately the parking fines  and that esure and their agents, B, werent responsible for this.
Miss A disagrees. She says, in summary, that if the repairs had been carried out correctly  
from the start, she wouldnt be in this position - because she wouldve paid the fines  if not for 
what she considers Bs negligence in abandoning  the car. She feels B is at fault for her car 
being seized because the car wasnt securely  parked on their premises. So the matter  has 
now been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
Firstly, esure  has apologised for the fact that the repairs werent fully completed in the first 
instance and for its delays  in rearranging the work. Its pointed  out that the first repair  took 
longer than expected because of unforeseen issues with the paintwork and the discovery  of 
damage that wasnt obvious when the car was first inspected. Its offered Miss A £175  to 
make up for these problems  made  up of £100 to reflect her upset and inconvenience at 
having to book the car in for further  repairs,  £50 for her frustration at esures handling  of her 
complaint, and £25 as a gesture of goodwill because  she made several  calls to ask for 
updates on the repair process. These  figures  are in line with this services  general approach 
to compensation,  so I find that a fair way to make up for those problems. This doesnt 
include the impact of the car being  seized  which Ill go on to consider below.
Miss As policy with esure  includes a term which says, among other things, it wont cover: 
Loss or damage due to any government, public or local authority legally taking, keeping or 
Ref: DRN40873722destroying your car." So esure isnt required by the terms  of the policy  to do anything about  
the loss of the car. But Ive also considered whether esure or their agent, B, bear 
responsibility for what happened.
B doesnt dispute the car was parked on-street at the time it was seized, rather than on Bs 
own premises. And I dont think this is unusual  not all repair garages have the space  or 
facilities to keep all the vehicles they hold on-site at all times,  and some  will need to make  
use of public space  for cars that they arent actively working on. This doesnt  mean  these 
cars have  been  abandoned.
Whether or not it does this, B is still responsible for keeping the vehicles in its care safe from 
things like theft and accidental damage. But on the other hand, the recovery firm which took 
the car had the legal authority to do so, granted  by the local authorities which issued  the 
parking fines.  Unlike a theft, this isnt something  B or esure  owe Miss A any duty to prevent, 
and indeed its difficult to see how they couldve prevented it. Even  if the car had been kept 
securely on Bs own site, B still wouldve been required by the law to release  it to the 
recovery firm if asked to. So the fact it was parked on the street  doesnt  make any difference.
I appreciate that Miss A feels strongly  that she shouldnt have received the parking fines at 
all, and has disputed  these with the councils that issued them.  Its not my role to say whether 
or not the fines  and the use of the councils legal  authority to seize Miss As car were  
justified. Thats a matter  between Miss A and the authorities. But the fact that shes  disputed 
the fines shows that she was aware they were  outstanding, and of the possible 
consequences if she refused to pay. 
I can see esure contacted  the recovery firm once it learned the car was taken  to satisfy  
itself that they were  authorised to collect the car. I think this was a reasonable step, and Ive 
also looked at the information the recovery firm provided. This indicates  that Miss A was told 
before the repairs started that her appeal had been  turned down.
Miss A argues that if the repairs were carried out correctly the first time, this situation 
wouldnt have arisen at all. But its also clear that Miss A was aware of the charges before 
the repairs began. So I think she was on notice  that the car could be seized  and she chose 
to run the risk that this might happen,  whether during the first or second  repair,  or at some 
other time. The root cause of the seizure  was the dispute over the parking charges, not 
anything esure or B did. I havent seen anything to suggest either firm knew about the fines 
at all, until after the car was taken.
Miss A says she wasnt  told about the problem until over a week  later.  Ive seen that B didnt 
notify esure about the seizure until 7 August 2018,  and theres no evidence  to suggest 
Miss A was informed before then.  But I dont think this makes a difference  to the outcome. 
Miss A still had the use of a courtesy  car during  that time. And its clear  that even after the 
car was seized; Miss A was given  the opportunity to pay for its release. She told us when 
she first contacted our service that she refused to pay  and turned down an offer from B to 
split the costs. She also chose to not return their courtesy car. So it was her decision which  
led directly to the car being sold off at auction.
Bearing all this in mind, I cant fairly or reasonably hold esure, or their agents B, responsible  
for the loss of the car.
Ref: DRN40873723esure has confirmed to our investigator that it hasnt looked into Miss As complaint  about 
being charged extra for the hire car. Theyve agreed  to look into this and will send their 
response to Miss A.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4087372