K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc shouldnt  have  given him a credit card. He 
says his credit history should  have made  Capital  One aware that the lending  was 
unaffordable for him.
background
Mr H applied for a credit  card with Capital One in February 2016.  Capital One issued him a 
card with a £200  credit  limit. 
In June 2017 Mr H fell behind with his repayments. He told Capital One he was experiencing 
financial difficulty and it agreed  a repayment  plan with him and made  him aware  it would be 
placing a default  on his account. Mr H didnt make  any further payments, so Capital One 
sold the debt on to a debt collection  agency  in 2019. 
Mr H complained that Capital One should never have given him the credit  card due to the 
information on his credit file. He said hed experienced  financial hardship as result. 
Capital One said it had considered the income Mr H told it he was earning when he applied 
for the card. It had also checked Mr Hs credit file at the time of his application. While it 
showed hed defaulted on several debts, the defaults werent recent  to his application and 
some were  being reduced. It said there were no indications from Mr Hs application that the 
lending was unaffordable.  It had given him a credit building card with a low limit of £200, 
once its affordability assessments had been  satisfied. 
Our investigator didnt  think Capital  One had done  anything wrong. He said Capital One had 
looked at Mr Hs credit file when he had taken  out the card and it didnt show  any large  debts 
or recent defaults.  He didnt think it was unreasonable for Capital One to allow him a credit 
limit of £200.  He also thought Capital One had tried to support Mr H when he told it he was 
struggling to make his repayments.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  view and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his 
complaint, so its been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Before it issued the credit card to Mr H, Capital One had an obligation to check that he would 
be able to make his repayments  in an affordable and sustainable manner. The checks 
needed to be proportionate to the amount it was lending to Mr H. 
I can see from Mr Hs credit card application that he told Capital One he was employed  and 
his income was £23,000 a year. Capital One says it reviewed Mr Hs credit file at the time of 
the application and has sent us the information it looked at. I can see there  were  a few 
previous defaults  on Mr Hs file, but these dont appear to have been recent to the time of his 
application. I can also see that Mr H had some existing debt. But I dont think  these  existing 
commitments were  large enough to suggest that Mr H wouldnt have been able to afford  his 
credit card repayments taking into account  his income.
Ref: DRN47222422Capital One offered Mr H a credit card with a relatively low limit of only £200. I dont think 
this was unreasonable given what it knew about  Mr Hs income, credit history and existing 
debt. I also think Capital  Ones  checks were  sufficient, given the amount it was lending  to 
him. So I dont think  Capital One was wrong to give Mr H the credit card.
Capital One also had a duty to act positively and sympathetically once it was aware of        
Mr Hs financial  difficulty. I can see Capital One sent Mr H an income and expenditure form 
to complete after he told it he was struggling to make his repayments. Capital One agreed a 
payment arrangement with Mr H. It explained  this would mean  a default being placed  on his 
credit file because he would be paying  below  the minimum payment on his credit card. It 
also said it wouldnt apply interest  or default sums  to the account  while  the agreement was in 
place. As Mr H didnt make any further payments to his account, Capital One passed it on to 
a debt collection agency. So I think Capital One took positive steps to try to help Mr H once it 
was aware of his financial  difficulty.  
Having considered everything, I dont think Capital One has acted unfairly towards Mr H. It 
follows that I dont  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4722242