K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Interactive Investor Services Limiteds foreign exchange charges arent 
clear enough. 
background
Mr C doesnt consider Interactives foreign exchange charges are clear  enough.  He accepts 
that they are set out in the terms and conditions of his pension trading  account, but says 
theyre not made obvious at the point of placing a trade. 
Mr C also considers the limited amount of time for accepting  a quote when converting 
currency is misleading, and gives the impression that a competitive rate is being offered.
Interactive said its charges were detailed in the terms and conditions  Mr C accepted when 
he opened his account. It added that the information required to calculate  the foreign  
exchange charges  is available  on its platform.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  that the 
charges were set out in Interactives terms and conditions for the account. He said that if Mr 
C was unhappy  with the way Interactive presented  its charging  information he could consider 
using a different  platform. 
The adjudicator also considered the time limit for converting currency  was reasonable. This 
was because it was possible for the rate to change, and Interactive couldnt guarantee the 
rate quoted.  
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions. He maintained that the charges werent 
clear enough  at the point of trading, and there was no way of calculating them without 
referring to external sources. Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  Im satisfied that the charges are set out in the terms and conditions 
that Mr C agreed to when  he opened the account. Mr C also seems  to accept that this is the 
case.
But his objection is that the charges arent displayed clearly enough when hes placing a 
trade. He says its not possible to check what the charges  will be without moving  to a 
different screen  or external sources.
I can see why that might  be frustrating for Mr C. But the information hes seeking is available  
through Interactives platform.  And even though it may be necessary to move to a different 
screen to check the details, overall I dont consider its unreasonable  for Interactive to 
provide the information in the way that it does.
Ref: DRN42156802Mr C also considers Interactives fifteen  second  timeframe for accepting currency  
conversions is misleading. He says it gives the impression that a competitive  rate is being 
offered, but that this isnt necessarily the case.  
Interactive has explained  that the timeframe  is provided because  the exchange  rate can 
change, and its not possible  to guarantee the rate. Again, I dont think  thats unreasonable.  
It doesnt necessarily imply that a competitive rate is being  offered  rather  that the rate is 
liable to change. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the way in which Interactive displays its charging information 
is misleading. 
As the adjudicator has already said, if Mr C remains  unhappy with Interactives display he 
may want to consider  using a different platform.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4215680