K820x#14complaint
Mr K2 complains on behalf of Mr K1 and says Friends Life Limited  has delayed and not fully 
responded to his request  for information about  Mr K1s whole-of-life  plans. It didnt let Mr K1 
know that mortality  charges were being  applied  and were depleting the value of the plans 
which led to the life cover lapsing. 
background
Mr K1 had four whole-of-life plans that he took out in 1986 as part of a multi-plan.  They were 
sold to him by an independent  advisor.
Each gave  him life cover of £25,000.The  annual premium for each policy was paid until 
1992, and then a separate payment was made to two of the plans in 1993. From this time no 
further premiums were paid and the plans were  made fully paid-up. 
Towards the end of 2016, Mr K2 began to enquire about these policies, and some others 
Mr K1 had. Initially, Friends Life said that, when the whole-of-life policies  had been  made  
paid-up, theyd become  self-funding. This meant that the value theyd built up while  the 
premiums were being paid was used to pay for the life cover. Units in the policies were  sold 
until there was no value left and the policies lapsed in mid 2016. 
Mr K2 questioned this and asked for more information. He also asked again about  Mr K1s 
other policies.
Friends Life then said that what it had originally told Mr K2 wasnt right,  and that just two of 
the whole-of-life  policies  had lapsed. The other two remained  paid-up with the value being 
sold to fund the life cover.  It said that a self-funding projection had been issued to Mr K1 in 
1993 to give an indication of how long the unit value could support the ongoing mortality  
charges (the cost of life cover). This projection  showed that the sum assured  could  be 
sustained until Mr K1 reached  the age of 110, but this was assuming a level of growth that 
hadnt been achieved because of the economic climate. It said the policies couldnt be 
reinstated to full benefits but the lapsed ones may be able to be put back to a fully paid 
status if cash sums were  paid into them to cover the life cover costs.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the details of Mr K2s concerns. He could see that 
Friends Life hadnt responded  to Mr K2s query  about Mr K1s other policies. Friends  Life 
said that this was because the only records it had showed they had been surrendered some 
years before. The adjudicator explained  this to Mr K2. He also looked at what  had happened 
with the whole-of-life policies and said they would only last as long as there  was sufficient 
value in them to keep covering the costs. 
The adjudicator said the mortality charges were  set by the actuaries in line with Friends  
Lifes commercial judgement. These costs go up as the life assured gets older. He said that 
although it may have  been the intention for the policies to be self-funding, there  wasnt  a 
guarantee they would  carry on providing  Mr K1 with life cover.
On Mr K1s behalf, Mr K2 didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said, in summary,  the 
policy document didnt say unpaid mortality charges led to the policies lapsing. Friends  Life 
hadnt provided the outcome of reviews from 2011 and 2016 or any warnings  of the risks 
around the policies.  He said the policies were made  fully paid-up in accordance with their 
terms; therefore they havent lapsed  due to the non-payment of premiums. 
Ref: DRN41173112Mr K2 believes  that Friends Life has failed to comply  with the policy terms and so Mr K1 has 
been prejudiced. He feels that Friends Life should accept its responsibility in this by either 
reinstating the policies in full, or by accepting the policies continue  subject to payment of the 
mortality charges due.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that, as well as the whole-of-life policies, Mr K2 also asked Friends Life about other 
policies Mr K1 had held,  which he thought may have been investment bonds. I appreciate 
that Friends Life was unable to find any trace of them  on its systems which indicates they 
were cancelled or surrendered some time ago. But I think this couldve been  properly 
communicated to Mr K2 much earlier, which wouldve  meant that he didnt need to follow-up 
on what had happened  to them.
The multi-plan was sold to Mr K1 by an independent  advisor, so Friends  Life isnt 
responsible for the advice he was given  at that time. But here, Ive looked at Mr K2s 
concerns about  Friends Lifes  administration of the policy  and its terms. 
Mr K1 hasnt  paid any premiums to the policies since 1992  and 1993,  when the policies were  
made fully paid-up.  What  this means  is set out in the policy  document: 
If so requested by the person(s) entitled at law to the Policy and subject to the conditions 
below, the Society  will convert the Policy to one under which there  would be no further 
Renewal Premiums  payable and any Subsidiary Benefits would lapse and the Options  in 
Section Five would be cancelled.
Such request must state whether the Sum Assured will either: 
(a) be reduced to nil, in which case no further Mortality  Charges will be made, or
(b) be the Sum Assured in force under the Policy immediately  before  receipt  by the Society 
of the written  request. In this case the appropriate  monthly Mortality Charges will continue  to 
be made by reducing  the number of Units  allocated to the Policy. If the Accumulated Unit 
Value is thereby reduced to a minimum level to be determined by the Actuary the Policy  will 
lapse and any surrender value will be retained by the Society for twelve  months from the 
date of lapse at the disposal  of the person(s) entitled  at law to the Policy at the date of 
lapse.
And I think this sets out how the continuing  deduction of the mortality charges will be made 
through the surrendering of units in the policy. At the point the value of the units  is reduced  
to such a level not to be able to meet these charges, the policy  would lapse. 
So this is what has happened  with Mr K1s whole-of-life policies. They  lapsed at the point the 
mortality charges could  no longer be met to a level defined by the actuary. This is something  
Friends Life is entitled to do and is in accordance with the policy terms. I dont think it would 
be reasonable to expect  the ongoing  provision  of life cover indefinitely  when the cost of this 
can no longer be maintained from the amount paid into the policy or its value. 
Ref: DRN41173113The mortality  sum assured and mortality charges are also explained in the policy document:
The Mortality Sum Assured at any time is the amount, if any, by which  the Sum Assured  
then in force  exceeds the Accumulated Unit Value at that time.
The cost of the Mortality  Sum Assured is called the Mortality Charge  which  shall be made 
monthly in advance on the Effective Date and on the correspondingly numbered  (which 
failing, the last) day in each calendar month thereafter, following any Allocation  of Units on 
that date. This charge  will be made  by reducing  the number of Units  allocated to the Policy  
by a number equal in value to the amount of that charge, using  the Bid Price  at the last 
Valuation prior to the date on which  the charge is made. If Units  of more than one 
Investment Fund are allocated to the Policy they shall be reduced in number pro rata. If the 
charge made on any occasion exceeds  the Accumulated Unit Value, the number of Units 
allocated will be reduced to nil and the excess charge shall be carried  forward  and added to 
the charge made on the next occasion and (if remaining unsatisfied) to the charge made on 
each subsequent occasion  until satisfied. 
But, for Mr K1s policies, the charge couldnt  be made on another occasion, as no further 
renewal premiums were being paid.  The policies  could only be revived within  12 months of 
their conversion to fully paid-up status,  if the overdue premiums  were paid and evidence was 
provided of no material  change in circumstances. 
Mr K2 has also referred to the policy reviews, which he feels wouldve given Mr K1 the 
opportunity to surrender the policy or accept a lower level of cover to enable them to 
continue. But the policy reviews wouldnt have  had this effect as no premiums were being  
paid. The purpose of the review was to make  sure the level of premiums was sufficient to 
meet the sum assured. The review option  was based on the assumption that the renewal 
premiums due had been  paid, when  that wasnt the case  for Mr K1s fully paid-up policies.
Friends Life has said that the policies can be brought back to the fully paid-up status and 
Mr K2 has now been provided  with an estimation of the costs of sustaining  the policy  for ten 
years from when they lapsed based  on assumed rates of growth. If these costs were paid 
but were found  not to be enough  to provide the level of cover,  which is a possibility, then 
Mr K1 would  be given an option  to add to them.
I appreciate that Mr K2 now feels that Friends  Life should provide a more detailed  projection 
of the mortality charges applicable on a monthly basis. But I think the information  Friends 
Life has given Mr K1 should  be sufficient for him to make a decision about whether  he 
wishes to pay the projected figures to reinstate the policies to fully paid status. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Friends Life has administered Mr K1s whole-of-life 
policies in line with their terms. I do think there were instances where it couldve responded 
to Mr K2s queries in a more timely and comprehensive manner, but I dont think this has 
caused Mr K1 any financial disadvantage  or loss when he still has the option to bring his 
policies back to the fully paid status.
my final decision
Ref: DRN41173114My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4117311