K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited didnt refund her 
monthly payments  when  it allowed her to reject  her car. She would like these payments 
refunded.
background
Mrs B says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited  (MBFS) in June 2018 for a new car. The agreement was in her name but the car 
was registered  in her husbands name  as it was primarily  for his use.
Mrs B says she had a number of issues with the car  an ongoing noise, the boot wouldnt 
close and leaking water from the front driver side window  for example. She says although 
MBFS attempted to address the problems she wasnt happy with the repair.
At that point MBFS allowed Mrs B to reject the car. It agreed to refund her deposit and 10% 
of the monthly  payments she had made. Mrs B didnt think  this was fair as she has had so 
little use of the car 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He thought Mrs B had been within her rights to reject 
the car. He felt interest  should be added to the refund of Mrs Bs deposit and the agreement 
should show as settled on Mrs Bs credit  file as is our usual practice  on rejection. 
He recommended that MBFS  should pay Mrs B £150 for distress and inconvenience. He 
didnt feel it was fair to ask MBFS to refund all of Mrs Bs payments  as he had no evidence 
that the car hadnt been fit to drive. He thought  it was more  likely the mileage was so low as 
Mr B had had an accident and wasnt  able to drive the car.
MBFS didnt feel our adjudicators view reflected what it felt it had agreed  with him. However 
it said in order to bring the complaint  to a close it would agree  to the redress  our adjudicator 
recommended.
Mrs B didnt accept this view. She didnt accept the low mileage was due to her husbands 
accident as he had a work  car he could  use so the car was only used for short trips.  She 
said her last car was only driven for 1,000  miles. She added  that our adjudicators  offer 
hadnt taken into account the times  she was without the car, or the stress  this caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that MBFS allowed Mrs B to reject  her car. So I dont  need  to go over that 
in this view other than to note Mrs B experienced a number of issues over a number of times 
which lead to some time without her car whilst  it was being looked  at. She has told us 
sometimes this was for one day, sometimes for two days.
Also Mrs B seems to be happy overall  with the redress MBFS has already  given   taking 
back the car, refunding her deposit   which it has agreed to add 8% simple interest to as we 
would normally include that along  with showing the agreement as settled on Mrs Bs credit 
Ref: DRN46208752file  again our usual  practice on rejection. I am also aware that MBFS has in addition 
refunded the cost of removing a number  plate (£80)
The main  issue I have  to consider  are the monthly  payments which  Mrs B thinks should  all 
be refunded and the distress and inconvenience  to Mrs B. MBFS had already agreed  on 
rejection to refund 10 % of the monthly payments Mrs B made. 
In order for me to conclude its fair that Mrs B had a full refund of all of her monthly  payments 
I would need to be satisfied that either  she had little or no use of the car. 
From what  I understand although the issues Mrs B experienced were irritating they didnt 
stop her using the car which was driveable. She has said she didnt have use of the car for 
some days   as I understand it there were odd days and occasionally  two consecutive days 
when her car was being looked  at. I appreciate  that was inconvenient  but Mrs B hasnt given 
us any evidence she was without the use of the car for a significant period  of time.
Mrs B has said she only drove around 700 miles which I accept is very low mileage. In 
response to our adjudicators view she said the low mileage wasnt  a result  of her husbands 
accident. But thats not what we understood when she first contacted us. At that time we 
understood her husband had broken both his legs so couldnt drive  any car. So I think  that 
must have  impacted on his use of the car.
Mrs B has also told us that she only used her previous car for 1,000 miles.  I have  no 
information about that car  for example how long she had it. But she has also told us that 
both she and her husband  have the use of work cars. And their own car is only for short  
trips.
So it seems  to me the mileage rate is more due to the way Mr and Mrs B use the car rather 
than as a result of the issues with the car. And as I have no evidence  that either the car 
wasnt driveable or that the issues with the car directed impacted on the use of it I dont think 
I can fairly expect MBFS to refund al the of monthly payments Mrs B has made  .
Mrs B has also said dealing  with the car has been very stressful  and put her to some 
inconvenience I accept  that this was probably the case. She has told us she was without the 
car on a number of occasions, the car had a range of problems she wouldnt have expected  
a new car to have and she had to make a number of phone calls to sort out issues  such as 
the return of the car.
I think our adjudicator recognised this .since he recommended, and MBFS accepted his 
recommendation, to pay £150 compensation which I feel is reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN46208753my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited should:-
-Pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement on the 
deposit it has already  refunded.
-Record the agreement  as settled on Mrs Bs credit file
-Pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4620875