K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them  a monthly  premium  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  taken  out in 1995  when  they applied  for a joint 
mortgage during  a meeting.
background
Mr and Mrs S complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld because the policy was probably  shown as optional and, even though the information 
couldve been clearer, it was probably  clear enough  for Mr and Mrs S to make  a decision 
about buying the PPI. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I know this will be a disappointment for 
them so Ill set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs S said they were told to take the policy  just in case. So I assume from this they 
were aware the policy was an optional financial product. Bradford & Bingley hasnt been able 
to produce any documents from the time of the sale. However, this policy was sold over 
twenty years  ago, and Im not surprised the original documents  arent now available. So 
taking all of that into account, I think it probably  was clear the policy was optional and that Mr 
and Mrs S consented to buy it. 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs S off from taking 
out the cover. 
Mr S told us he wouldve  received good  benefits from his employer if he was off work  
through accident, sickness or unemployment - similar to the kind of cover that PPI provided - 
but I think the PPI cover  couldve  paid out in addition to and possibly for longer  than his sick 
pay and other insurance. So I think Mr and Mrs S might still have thought the PPI gave them  
a useful benefit.  
I note also that even if the cost and benefits of the policy were not made clear, I havent seen 
anything which makes  me think Mr and Mrs S made it clear at the time of the sale to the 
Bradford & Bingley  representative that they needed  to keep the costs  down. So having 
Ref: DRN49743912decided they chose to have PPI, and that it provided  a useful benefit for them  I think they 
wouldve bought  it even if the cost and benefit information had been clearer.  
Taking everything into consideration, Ive decided  not to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4974391