K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an Advantage 
Gold Account (AGA) in 2001. 
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In November 2001 Mr W took out an AGA  which incurred  a monthly fee.
Mr W says that when  he was sold the AGA,  he was told hed be better  off with it. He says the 
AGA was unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint but Mr W disagrees  so the complaint comes 
to me to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ws complaint.
I think that NatWest mis-sold  the AGA to Mr W and Ill explain why.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the AGA to Mr W or advise  him to buy it. Mr W says 
NatWest did advise him to buy it. Either way NatWest was required  to give Mr W sufficient 
information for him to make an informed  decision  about it.
Neither party is sure how the AGA  was sold. There is no evidence  that it was sold online or 
by post, so I think its more likely than not that there was a conversation about it between  
NatWest and Mr W either face to face or by phone.
Mr W had held a fee free account with NatWest  for many years  prior to the sale and so 
taking out the fee paying  AGA was a significant  step for him. The benefits  of the AGA 
included worldwide family travel insurance; extended warranty cover, purchase protection  
and better  rates for overdrafts. It cost £6 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr W says he did travel  in the UK or to Europe up to 3 times a year.  
NatWest says that Mr W was primarily interested in the overdraft benefits  because he had a 
substantial overdraft at the time and raised his overdraft limit on the day of the sale.
Mr W says that NatWest  told him hed be better off with the AGA.
The calculations NatWest  has provided do show that he paid less interest  on his overdraft 
with the AGA than he wouldve done with the fee free account he had previously held. 
However those calculations also show that he didnt  save  an amount that covered the 
monthly account fee or even close to it. So I think its more likely than not that if NatWest had 
Ref: DRN46280072given him information  in a form he could understand that he wouldnt have bought  the AGA 
just for the overdraft  savings amounts.
So Ive then considered the other  benefits on offer at the time. Two of the main three 
benefits, that is the travel insurance  and the extended warranty  cover  required Mr W to buy 
the holiday or goods with a NatWest credit  card. But the evidence  provided by NatWest 
shows that Mr W didnt have a NatWest Credit card and there  is no evidence that he applied  
for one. So I think its more likely than not the information provided  by NatWest didnt draw 
his attention to the fact he needed to get a NatWest Credit Card to use the other benefits 
and so he didnt  do so and was not covered. Or those benefits  were of no interest  to him and 
he was taking out the AGA for the overdraft benefits  alone.
Either way it seems more likely  than not to me that Mr W received either incorrect 
information or he didnt  receive the information  he needed from NatWest to make an 
informed decision when  he bought the AGA. And he lost out as a result.
putting things right
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to: 
Pay Mr W the amount Mr W paid each month  for the AGA.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W has saved money  because  of a better rate on his overdraft  or any loan by having  
the packaged account and NatWest can show exactly  how much Mr W saved, it may 
deduct his savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the two 
points above.  NatWest must explain clearly and simply to Mr W how it has worked  out 
any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must  give Mr W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr W accepted my decision.
NatWest sent in evidence of mailings to Mr W and a summary record of discussion at the 
time of the sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the additional evidence NatWest has submitted. Id already taken into account 
that Mr W may have received information  about  the AGA in writing so the evidence of the 
mailings he received  doesnt alter my view.
Ref: DRN46280073Ive looked at the summary record of discussion that NatWest submitted. This confirmed my 
provisional finding that a discussion took place. As such I think its more  likely than not that 
Mr W was influenced by what  was said to him than by any paperwork  he received.
The discussion record  refers to him requesting a credit card and I will accept that he had one 
and so had access  to the travel insurance  and extended warranty cover.
However there is a consistency between Mr W saying  that he was told that hed be better off 
if he took out the AGA; the fact that he had a very large overdraft  and increased  it on the day 
of the sale; and the fact that there is no evidence he used the other benefits significantly; 
that leads me to think its more likely than not that he took out the AGA  mainly for the 
overdraft savings. So my conclusions remain as in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay redress  to Mr W as outlined in my provisional putting  things 
right paragraph  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4628007