K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited provided him with incorrect  
information about the ways in which he could take his pension benefits.  He also complains  
that Aviva  failed to make  him aware  of an upcoming  change to its rules  that would have 
provided him with an additional option  for taking his pension benefits.
background
Mr M had a small amount  of pension savings with Aviva.  These were held in a pension 
policy written under  the laws of Jersey. But Mr Ms pension was administered within  the 
United Kingdom  so I think it is reasonable that this complaint is one that I can deal with. 
Under the relevant legislation Mr M was able to take his pension  benefits from age 50. Following 
a request from Mr M, in June 2018  Aviva  sent him details  of the benefits he could take. One of 
the options Aviva offered was to take his pension benefits as a lump sum - 30% of the value of 
that lump sum would be paid tax free, with the remainder being  taxed at a rate of 10%. That was 
the option that Mr M chose and he returned  the relevant paperwork to Aviva.
Around a week  later Aviva got in touch with Mr M to explain that option had been added  to 
his retirement options in error. It explained  that the relevant legislation meant  that option was 
only available to consumers who were over 60 years  of age. So it asked him to provide  
revised instructions  about how he wished to take his pension  benefits. Mr M requested  a 
payment of tax free cash followed by an annuity payment to be paid quarterly.
When Mr M first complained to Aviva it agreed  that the information it had provided to him in 
the original options letter  was incorrect. So it paid him £50 in respect of that error. But it said 
that it thought  Mr M was now receiving the pension  benefits that hed asked  to take. Mr M 
wasnt happy with that response so brought his complaint  to this service.
Mr Ms complaint was assessed by one of our adjudicators. Whilst she agreed that Aviva  
had made  a mistake  in the letter it had sent to Mr M about his pension options,  she thought 
that the compensation Aviva had paid was reasonable. So she didnt ask Aviva  to do 
anything further  to put things right.
Around a month later,  after discussing the matter with an independent financial advisor, 
Mr M went back to Aviva  with some new information. He said that the regulations had been  
changed in Jersey in early  2018,  and that meant  he was entitled to take his pension  benefits 
as what was termed a small commutation  payment. In response Aviva initially gave him 
some further  incorrect information. But it later clarified that the option to take a small 
commutation payment  hadnt been introduced by Aviva until around a week  after Mr M 
decided to take an annuity.  And since it wasnt able to reverse that choice  the option wasnt 
available to him. But Aviva did offer to pay Mr M a further £200  in respect of the incorrect  
information hed been given.
Mr M didnt  accept that offer, and asked this Service to have another look at his complaint in 
the light of the new information about  small commutation payments. His complaint was 
assessed by another  one of our adjudicators.  She agreed that Aviva should  have  made 
Mr M aware  that the options open to him were about  to change.  And she thought that if 
Aviva had done that Mr M would have delayed making his decision for a week  or so. So she 
asked Aviva to put Mr M back  into the position hed have  been if hed waited and taken a 
small commutation payment instead  of an annuity.
Ref: DRN46563442Aviva didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Deciding this complaint has not been straightforward. In effect Mr M has, quite reasonably,  
made his complaint twice. And Aviva has made  mistakes in dealing  both with Mr Ms initial  
request, and in its response to his second  complaint. But what  I need to deal with here is 
simply whether Mr M was given  enough,  and correct, information before he ultimately  decided  
to use his pension  savings to take a tax free lump sum and ongoing annuity from Aviva.
Aviva has already agreed that it made a mistake in the original options  it presented  to Mr M. 
I can see that in that letter  Aviva  did note that consumers would only be able to take their 
pension benefits  as a single lump  sum if they had reached 60 years  of age. But then, despite 
knowing Mr Ms correct  date of birth, Aviva presented taking  a single lump sum as one of the 
options for Mr M to choose.
When Mr M originally  completed his decision form he chose that option  to take his pension 
as a single  lump sum. But at that time, he wasnt able to do so. I will deal with the new rules  
later in this decision.  On the basis of the previous regulations Aviva was quite right to go 
back to Mr M, acknowledging its mistake, and ask him for some revised instructions. I have 
listened to that call and I think the new options  were explained patiently to Mr M, and he 
gave a clear decision  about how he wanted to proceed.
The legislation relating to pensions in Jersey was changed with effect from January 2018. 
That new legislation introduced the option for pension funds of under £19,000 to be 
commuted and taken  as a lump  sum.  But, importantly, to do so required the permission of 
the pension scheme   the legislation didnt give consumers an explicit  right to take their 
pension in this way. So Aviva was under no obligation to give this option  to consumers.
Aviva has explained  that before it could allow consumers to benefit from this change in the 
legislation it needed  to ensure that doing  so didnt breach any of the rules of the individual 
pension schemes. It says that it didnt complete this checking until later in the year and 
started to tell its staff about the changes  on 18 July. After allowing time for these changes  to 
be implemented Aviva says the option  became available to consumers  on 23 July.
I think these timings are critical. Mr M was first sent the options  available to him (including 
the incorrect option to take a single lump  sum) on 28 June. That was clearly before Aviva  
had introduced the new regulations. And he spoke with Aviva to decide on his revised  choice 
on 18 July  that was the same day that Aviva started to communicate the changes to its 
staff but still 5 days before they were  introduced. So Aviva has argued that these options 
were never available to Mr M  they became possible after he had made his choices.
If Aviva hadnt provided Mr M with incorrect information, I would agree that it would have been 
unfortunate, but not unfair, that Mr M had missed out on the additional option  of taking his 
pension as a small commutation  payment. There naturally has to be a point at which the rules  
and options change. And it isnt always reasonable, or practical,  to provide advance warning or 
Ref: DRN46563443notice of these  changes.  But here, because of Avivas initial mistake,  Mr M had been able to 
clearly indicate that taking  his pension as a single  lump sum was his preferred option.
When Aviva  spoke to Mr M on 18 July it had already started to tell its staff about the changes 
 that means  the changes were no longer something that might happen, but instead had 
been agreed and were  in the process  of being implemented. And while I appreciate  that not 
all staff might have  been aware  that the changes were imminent at that point  I have noted  
that the call handler  Mr M spoke to discussed the matter on more  than one occasion with 
what I assume to be a more specialised team.  I think  it unlikely that team  would have been  
unaware of the forthcoming changes.
So I dont  think it reasonable that Aviva, when looking to correct  a mistake  it had already  
made, failed to make Mr M aware  that he could achieve the outcome he desired by waiting 
to take his benefits for a period of around a week. I think  that if Aviva had provided him with 
sufficient information  about the forthcoming  changes Mr M would have deferred his decision 
for a short time. And I think it is reasonable for me to expect Aviva to have identified that 
option would  be appropriate given what it knew about Mr Ms circumstances and the 
relatively imminent introduction of the new small commutation payment option. So Aviva 
needs to pay Mr M some  compensation.
putting things right
I think if Mr M had been given appropriate information he would  have chosen  to delay taking 
his benefits for a week and chosen a small commutation payment.  So Aviva needs  to put 
Mr M into the position he would have been  if that had happened. Aviva should;
take ownership of, and cancel, the annuity  plan it set up for Mr M.
calculate the benefit (after the deduction  of appropriate taxation applicable to Mr Ms 
individual circumstances) that could have  been  paid to Mr M on 23 July 2018 after Aviva 
had introduced the small  commutation payment rules. (A)
calculate the net value (after the deduction of appropriate taxation applicable to Mr Ms 
individual circumstances) of the pension benefits  Mr M has been paid to date in the form 
of the initial pension commencement lump  sum and quarterly annuity payments. (B)
The loss that Mr M has suffered is calculated as (A)  (B). Aviva  should pay that amount to 
Mr M. And Aviva should add simple interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to this amount from 
23 July 2018 to the date of settlement. 
Aviva should  also pay an additional sum of £100 to Mr M in respect of the trouble and upset this 
matter will have caused to him, and in particular the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Aviva  Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4656344