K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 2005 Ms M took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card. Both were done by 
postal application.
The PPI was designed to protect Ms Ms credit card payments  in the event  she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment   subject to its limitations and exclusions. 
The policy cost 79 pence for every  £100 Ms M owed on the card and the premiums did 
attract interest.
At the time Ms M says she was employed and she was entitled to sick pay of six months full 
followed by six months half-pay. She said she was in good health at the time and said she 
had a partner  she couldve  relied  on to make  her payments.
According to Capital Ones records, Ms Ms account  closed in 2007 and she paid less than 
£70 in total for PPI.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Ms M chose to take out PPI and there  was nothing to indicate  it was wrong or inappropriate 
for her.
Because Ms M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Ms Ms case.
Having done so and carefully considered  what  both parties to this dispute have provided, 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Capital One has provided a copy of both Ms Ms credit card application and the 
subsequent credit agreement she completed  and signed once her card was approved.  
Looking at the application, I can see here that Ms M indicated with a tick that she was 
interested in protecting  her card payments. And then on the credit agreement  she ticked 
and signed separately to say that she wanted  PPI.
So overall Im satisfied Ms M chose to take out PPI and she did so without undue 
pressure.
Ref: DRN41889242Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M  this was a sale by post with no 
interaction with a Capital One representative  - so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been  for example its not clear to me that it clearly brought  to her attention 
the significant exclusions to and limits  on the cover or that it clearly set out all of the cost 
information. But Ms M chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong  particularly given the fact that the policy  
offered a 10% monthly benefit so it had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in 
full. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
So in light of the above I find that Ms M hasnt lost out as a result  of having PPI with her 
credit card. This means Capital One doesnt  have to do anything  to put things right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint  and I make  
no award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4188924