K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that TSB Bank  plc is responsible  for the loss of £5,000 which  was stolen 
from her.
background
Miss G has explained that she received an inheritance of around £30,000, which  was paid into 
her account  with TSB. The bank however wanted proof that she was entitled to the money  and 
said that it wouldnt allow her to keep that money in her account; it said it would close  the 
account immediately.  Miss G says her solicitor wouldnt take the money  back from her, and so 
she had to withdraw it - £20,000 by bankers draft and most of the balance  in cash. 
At the time,  Miss G was staying in an hotel. She left the cash in her room and, while she was 
out, some  £5,000  was stolen. She thinks TSB should take responsibility  and reimburse her 
losses. Had the bank  not closed her account, she wouldnt have had that much cash with her 
and it wouldnt have  been stolen. 
TSB said it had been entitled to close Miss Gs account in the way it did. Miss G had chosen 
to take the money partly in cash, and so it couldnt  be held responsible for the theft from her 
hotel room. It did however  acknowledge that it had taken longer than it should  have  done  to 
investigate her complaint  and to reach  a decision about it. It paid her a total of £300 in 
recognition of that. 
Miss H wasnt  happy and asked that this service consider her complaint. One of our 
investigators did that, but broadly agreed  with the bank.  Miss G asked that an ombudsman  
review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
It was for TSB to decide whether it wanted  to continue to provide Miss G with banking 
facilities. In certain circumstances it could close her account without notice. Its arguable that 
TSB should have  given  Miss G more notice here, but I note that she had at least  one 
account with a different bank, and deposited  the draft there. The inconvenience caused  by 
the account closure was less than it would  have been had she not been able to do that. 
Be that as it may, it was Miss Gs choice to take some of the money in cash  and to keep it in 
her hotel room. I sympathise that she has been  a victim of theft, but I dont believe it would  
be fair to conclude that TSB was responsible  for that; the bank didnt have any influence  
over what  happened  to the cash  once  it had given it to Miss G. For that reason, I dont 
believe it would be fair to require TSB to cover Miss Gs loss here. 
Ref: DRN41412182my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to do anything further to resolve 
Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141218