K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgages that Mr and Mrs H took out with HSBC UK Bank Plc; 
one to purchase their new home, the other to raise  capital on a property they already owned 
as part of the deposit on their new home.  They say that delays on the part of HSBC and its 
chosen solicitor prevented  them  from completing the purchase on time.  Mr and Mrs H are 
seeking compensation for their financial losses and for the time, trouble and inconvenience  
caused to them.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own 
words. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide,  
and if I dont mention  something,  it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some  
instances, have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr and Mrs H were buying a new property; they were  intending  to finance it with a mortgage 
secured on the new property (which Ill call B) and new borrowing raised by mortgaging  a 
second property  they already owned  (which Ill call C). Both mortgage applications were 
submitted to HSBC. The application for B progressed without too much incident, and the 
offer was issued on 23 August 2018. The application  on C was beset by problems, resulting 
in five separate offers being issued. 
Mr and Mrs H had exchanged contracts on the purchase of B on 23 August 2018, with an 
intended completion date of 5 September 2018.  They say they did this after their broker 
(who Ill call K) said it had been assured by HSBC the deadline was achievable.  
The problems with the mortgage of C meant  that transaction didnt complete until 
October 2018; to mitigate this, Mr and Mrs H had made alternative short-term  financial 
arrangements to ensure funds were available  to complete the purchase of B on 
5 September 2018. 
Unfortunately, the conveyancing work necessary  to allow the mortgage  on B to complete 
only began  on the afternoon of 5 September 2018. A query arose over the extent of the 
property title that was being charged to HSBC. Dealing with this meant that the work wasnt  
finished, and the funds  released, until late on 6 September  2018,  with completion taking 
place the next day. 
This meant Mr and Mrs H and their family  had to stay overnight in a hotel and put all of their 
belongings into storage. Even after they were finally able to access  their new home, they 
had to sleep on the floor in the same  clothes for two further nights, until their removal  
company could deliver their belongings.
Mr and Mrs H complained, submitting  a claim for around £18,000,  covering expenses  
incurred and loss of earnings for Mr H. HSBC accepted it had mis-handled  the re-mortgage 
Ref: DRN45267742application in respect of C and paid Mr and Mrs H £600 compensation for their time, trouble 
and upset. 
But on the delay  in completing  the mortgage  on B, HSBC rejected the complaint. It denied  
having guaranteed completion by 5 September 2018, said that its solicitors (whom Ill call 
O) had done all they reasonably could to try and do so, but ultimately,  there wasnt  enough  
time. The real problem, in HSBCs view, was that Mr and Mrs H had exchanged contracts on 
23 August 2018  without  authority from O.
Our investigator broadly agreed  with HSBCs position,  and didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs H have asked for their complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Mr and Mrs H have repeatedly insisted we obtain copies of emails  exchanged between 
HSBC and their broker K. Mr and Mrs H are Ks client, and could therefore have instructed it 
to release the material. Mr and Mrs H have  said HSBC  barred K from doing so; I dont know  
if thats true or not (and to be clear,  I dont consider that I need to), but if it is, its a matter  for 
Mr and Mrs H to raise  with the Information Commissioners  Office if they wish to. 
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  Im satisfied I can do 
so here on the basis of what  I already  have,  which, to be clear, includes copies HSBC  has 
supplied of emails  between itself and K, as well as its contact notes.
Ill deal with property  C first; I dont have  to decide  if HSBC mis-handled the application. Its 
admitted making  mistakes and has paid compensation. I dont need  to drill down  into the 
detail of the problems, merely the impact  they had. In that context, all I need decide is if the 
compensation HSBC  has paid is enough,  or if more is warranted. 
The problems with the re-mortgage of C had no impact directly on the completion of the 
purchase of B; if that had happened on time,  Mr and Mrs H would still have had to make the 
alternative short-term funding arrangements to plug  the gap left by the absence of the 
money being raised from the re-mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H havent provided any details of 
those loans, other than that they came  from wealthy friends and family, and havent included 
any costs of arranging  them  in their claim. That being the case,  the assessment of redress  in 
respect of the mortgage on C becomes solely about  trouble and upset, and in that context, I 
find HSBCs payment of £600  to be fair in the circumstances.  Had it not already been made, 
I wouldnt have awarded more.
Ref: DRN45267743I now deal with the mortgage on B itself. When youre as close  to a situation as 
Mr and Mrs H have been here, its natural and understandable to see things solely  on ones 
own terms. Its also natural to emphasise  individual statements or comments  that appear to 
support a particular  view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention  to those that 
support the opposite  viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies 
and/or anomalies  in what both sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things subjectively,  sometimes  taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing  
on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done here. This was a mortgage application that 
began on 7 August  2018, resulted in an offer of advance on 23 August 2018, and completed 
on 7 September  2018. By any reasonable assessment,  that wasnt  an excessive period of 
time. Its only contentious because Mr and Mrs H had exchanged contracts on the day the 
offer was issued and in doing  so, committed themselves to completing on 
5 September 2018.
Nothing in the evidence  from either side gives me any reason to believe HSBC guaranteed 
completion could  take place  by 5 September 2018. I dont believe any lender would do that; 
there are just too many variables that can prevent a transaction  competing  by a specified  
date, and Id expect K to know that even  if Mr and Mrs H did not. 
Ill certainly accept the likelihood that when K asked if completion  by 5 September  2018 was 
achievable, HSBC  answered that it thought  it was. But that wouldnt of itself mean HSBC 
was responsible if completion wasnt achieved by that date. The reality is that even if it might 
have been achievable at the outset, completion by 5 September 2018  became difficult and 
unlikely when O only received the contract pack on 31 August 2018,  a Friday, and the 
mortgage deed on 4 September 2018; the day before  completion  was due. 
Mr and Mrs H have said HSBC failed to impress  on O the urgency, such  that O only began  
work on the case after lunch on 5 September  2018. Ive thought very hard about this, and 
think its important to put some context  in here.  This transaction  was obviously of paramount  
importance to Mr and Mrs H, but it was only one of several property transactions  that O 
would have had on desk to deal with. Every one of those transactions  would have been just 
as important to the people  involved in them  as the purchase of B was to Mr and Mrs H. 
In that scenario, its only fair and reasonable that O should deal with cases in date order. Id 
expect it to resist any attempt to force  it to do otherwise, whether that came from HSBC as 
its instructing lender,  or from Mr and Mrs H who, to be clear, were  not Os clients. 
In essence, this aspect  of the complaint boils down to Mr and Mrs H wanting to jump the 
queue over other people  whose transactions were equally important to them,  and expecting 
HSBC and/or O to help them  do so. Thats neither  fair nor reasonable, especially when its 
very likely that O will have  been instructed in some or all of those other transactions by 
lenders other than HSBC. 
All of that aside,  Mr and Mrs H argue that it should  still have been  possible to complete on 
time if there  hadnt  been confusion over the title plan, and how much of the property was to 
be included  in the charge.  As the parties  making  the assertion, its for Mr and Mrs H to prove 
it, and overall I dont think theyve done so. I accept its possible that could have happened, 
but for me to find in their favour on that point, possible  isnt enough. 
I have to be satisfied  on the balance of probabilities  that but for the time taken to clarify the 
extent of the security, its more likely than not (even  as likely isnt enough) that O would have 
Ref: DRN45267744been in a position to submit a certificate of title, receive  the mortgage funds and complete 
the purchase of B early  enough on 5 September 2018 to allow  Mr and Mrs H to move 
themselves and their belongings into B. Based on everything thats  been  said and provided, 
I dont find that be more likely than not. Im not even  convinced  its as likely, which means  
I cant safely find in Mr and Mrs Hs favour,  however  much theyd like me to.
In summary,  HSBC did make some  mistakes, but they werent the reason the completion  
deadline was missed. And I dont believe that anything that passed between  HSBC and K 
was what prompted  Mr and Mrs H to exchange  contracts on the day they received the 
mortgage offer and commit  to completing  on 5 September  2018. By their own testimony, 
Mr and Mrs Hs vendor  would only sell B to them if they did that; so I think that was the 
dominant driver of their decision.
I dont mean  this unkindly, but I think Mr and Mrs H have to accept that they took a gamble 
to ensure they secured  the property they wanted. That gamble  paid off, but the price  of it 
was some additional unexpected expense and a considerable measure of inconvenience to 
them and their family. 
Mr and Mrs H dont have to accept  my final decision, and if they dont, neither they nor 
HSBC will be bound  by it. Subject to any time limits or other  restrictions  a court might 
impose, Mr and Mrs Hs right to take legal  action against HSBC  in respect of the matters 
covered in this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against HSBC UK Bank Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526774