K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Firstly, I should clarify that while Mr and Mrs W have said they took out PPI with their original 
mortgage in 1988, I havent seen any evidence of this. From  what  Ive seen, the PPI wasnt  
taken out until 2008, around  the time the mortgage  was transferred into Mrs Ws name  only. 
If Mr and Mrs W have any evidence they were  paying for PPI before 2008  they should  send 
this to Halifax and allow it the opportunity to investigate. My decision is only about  the PPI 
that was sold in February 2008 and covered Mrs W only.
The PPI Mrs W took out was part of a Total Mortgage Protection plan. It looks  like she was 
only sold PPI in February 2008  but it seems this might have been  amended  in August 2008 
to include life and critical illness  cover. The whole  plan was cancelled  in March  2009. As Mr 
and Mrs W have only complained about  the sale of the PPI, thats all I have looked into.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. Mrs W says she 
was told she would  be better off having PPI. As she was now solely responsible  for 
repaying the mortgage, that doesnt seem to be bad advice. And it doesnt suggest 
Halifax gave her the impression she had to have it. She was sent a letter confirming the 
cover had been arranged and this talks about her choosing  to have the policy. This isnt 
the type of wording  Id expect to see if shed  been given the impression it wasnt an 
option.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems 
to have had a need for the cover. As Ive already said, Mrs W now had to meet the 
mortgage repayments on her own and although  she might have received some  sick pay 
from her employer, I think the PPI would  have been useful when this stopped. It would 
give her peace of mind she would  be able to keep her home if she lost her job or was off 
work sick for a long time.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN49887722This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4988772