K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Remitly U.K. Ltd (Remitly) dealt with a transfer he made  in 
November 2018   and how long it took them to return his funds after they werent  received 
by the intended recipient.
background
Remitly is a licensed money transmitter that helps customers send money  internationally.
In November 2018, Mr H used Remitlys online services to transfer  £5,000 from his account  
in the UK to another persons account  overseas. Mr H says he received confirmation from 
Remitly that the transfer had gone  through  but was then told by his intended recipient that 
the money hadnt been received.
Mr H says he was then asked to provide an account statement for the intended recipient to 
show the money hadnt been received, which Remitly confirmed theyd received mid-
November  and then said they were  working  to sort the issue  out.
Mr H says he then emailed Remitly around  ten times  across  November and December 2018  
 and called  them a number of times as well. He says Remitly reassured him the matter had 
been escalated, but when he came to this service in January 2019, the matter was still 
outstanding.
Since our service has been involved with the complaint,  Remitly have returned  Mr Hs funds 
and initially  offered him £50 in vouchers in compensation. They later increased this to a total 
of £150 vouchers. But Mr H said he wanted Remitly to pay him interest for the time theyd 
held onto his money  because  it turns out theyd received it back on 20 November.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Hs complaint  he felt that Remitly  should  compensate  Mr H with 
8% simple  interest for the time hed been  without his money, which  was around  four months. 
And he thought  the original compensation of vouchers Remitly had offered for distress and 
inconvenience  £50  was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr H accepted this answer   but despite  being chased several times, Remitly have never 
responded to the investigators  view.  So the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Im also going to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint   and Ive explained  below why I think  this is fair.
From the information Ive received from Mr H and Remitly, it looks  like the transfer was 
processed on 9 November 2018   Remitly have said the funds were transferred to their 
partner bank the same day. Theyve  said their partner bank also confirmed the funds had 
been successfully  received by Mr Hs intended beneficiary. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
Remitly shouldve known  at this point that anything had gone wrong.
Ref: DRN42831212But, on 12 November, I can see Mr H got in touch with Remitly to explain the funds  hadnt  
been received.  So, Ive looked at what Remitly did from here  to see if I think they did 
enough to help Mr H.
The call note from the time suggests Mr H told Remitly the recipients  bank account  couldnt 
receive as much money  as hed sent, which he hadnt known when he made  the transfer. 
This mightve been a reason for the transfer  not going through   but I cant see that Remitly 
either confirmed this, or gave a different reason for the transfer failure.
But I can see Remitly contacted their partner bank the same day Mr H raised his query.  And 
they received  a reply the same day saying the transaction had been paid, but nothing to 
confirm if the receiving bank had the funds at this point.
On 15 November, Mr H supplied Remitly with a copy of a bank statement from the intended 
recipient. This statement  showed no funds had been received from Mr H. On 16 November, 
Remitly shared this information  with their partner bank.
Remitly have shown  us they chased this message up twice on 17 November 2018   and I 
can see their partner  bank  confirmed the payment was pending at the intended recipients 
bank. But Ive not seen anything to show they explained this to Mr H at the time.
Remitly also asked their partner bank for an update  on 22 November 2018 and                     
3 December 2018  but from the information  Remitly have supplied,  it doesnt look like they 
got a reply. 
So, up to this point,  I think Remitly have taken reasonable steps in trying to sort out Mr Hs 
concerns  although I can see he was also contacting them regularly throughout this time.
But from here onwards,  I dont think they did enough to sort things out.
I can see Remitly emailed  Mr H on 14 December 2018  and this was to advise again that 
he needed to send in a copy of the intended  recipients  bank  statement. But Mr H had 
already done this back in November and Remitly had received it. So, I dont think  this was 
helpful.
In their final response letter to Mr H, Remitly also said they were in constant  communication 
with their partner bank over the matter. But the evidence  theyve  shown me indicates that 
this wasnt the case   I cant see they contacted  their partner bank at all between                   
3 December 2018 and 20 March 2019.
When Remitly did take action on 20 March 2019,  I can see their partner bank  was able to 
confirm that the transfer was never received  by the destination bank (the intended recipients 
bank.) And Remitly  were  also told by their partner bank that the funds had been  returned to 
their funding account on 20 November 2018.
I dont have a lot of information about  what process  Remitly  follow  when problems like        
Mr Hs occur  and I havent received an explanation of how their systems  and partner  
relationships work. And its not entirely clear to me why the funds were never received by   
Mr Hs intended recipient  or whether this was due to an error by Remitly or something  to 
do with the intended recipients bank.
Ref: DRN42831213But I think its clear Remitly didnt  do enough  to find out what had happened to Mr Hs funds. 
And I can see Remitly had Mr Hs funds in one of their accounts from 20 November 2018 for 
about four months but didnt realise this. I dont think this is acceptable.
I dont know what Mr H wouldve done with his £5,000 if itd been returned to him promptly 
after Remitly received it back on 20 November.  But if hed had it, he couldve made choices  
about how he spent  or invested it. So, I think Remitly need to compensate him for the time 
he didnt have access to his money. And they should also compensate him for the distress 
their actions have caused  him.
putting things right
Remitly have returned  Mr Hs £5,000 to him. But in addition, they must pay him 8% simple  
annual interest for the time he was without  these funds  from the date Remitly received the 
funds back into their account (20 November  2018)  to the date they gave  him the money 
back.
They should  also compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  caused. I can see 
Remitly have already given Mr H £50 in vouchers.  And Mr H accepted this amount of 
compensation for the distress  caused  when our investigator suggested this was fair. Having 
considered all the circumstances  and the interest Ive asked Remitly to pay Mr H  I also 
think this seems fair in the round.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Remitly U.K. Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Remitly 
U.K. Ltd must give Mr H a certificate  showing how much tax theyve  taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint  against  Remitly U.K. Ltd  and they should  put 
things right by following  what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4283121