K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Sunny provided  Mr M with thirteen loans between October 2015 and April 2016.  Mr Ms 
lending history is detailed  below:
Loan Date Taken Date  RepaidTerm in 
monthsAmountHighest 
Monthly  
Repayment
1 02/10/2015 19/01/2016 6 £250.00 £76.65
2 03/10/2015 26/10/2015 6 £100.00 £107.06
3 07/10/2015 21/10/2015 6 £50.00 £130.35
4 21/10/2015 19/01/2016 6 £50.00 £130.35
5 26/10/2015 04/01/2016 6 £100.00 £144.90
6 04/01/2016 23/02/2016 6 £200.00 £152.15
7 19/01/2016 21/04/2016 6 £200.00
8 13/02/2016 22/02/2016 6 £50.00
9 23/02/2016 19/03/2016 6 £200.00
10 02/03/2016 30/03/2016 6 £50.00
Mr M took out a further three loans from March 2016 to April 2016 ranging from £50 to 
£200. Sunny  made an offer on these three loans but our adjudicator thought  it needed to 
do more for these loans.  
An adjudicator also looked at loans  1-10 and thought  that loan 5 shouldnt  have been 
given to Mr M as there were signs he was having issues  managing his finances.  The 
adjudicator also thought  loans 6-13 shouldnt have  been given as Mr M lending history 
indicated that he had become reliant  on short term lending. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks  and 
the lending was appropriate  for Mr M. However,  it agreed to make  a goodwill offer to write off 
the balance for loans  11 and 13 and clear them from Mr Ms credit  file. Mr M chose not to 
accept this offer. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
Ref: DRN46028692could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain
factors might  point  to the fact that Sunny should  fairly  and reasonably have done more  to
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow his
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. The adjudicator  didnt think  Sunny 
needed to do anymore when it provided  Mr M with loans one to four. Mr M didnt disagree  
with this, so I wont be making any findings  on these loans. However, I will still consider them 
when looking at Mr Ms overall borrowing history with Sunny. 
Having considered everything  I dont think Mr M shouldve been given loans 5 onwards and 
Ill explain  why. 
Sunny says it carried out checks on Mr M when he applied for loan five. This included 
obtaining details  of his income and expenditure and checking his credit file. Based on this 
information Sunny says the loan was affordable  for Mr M. Given the information Sunny  had I 
think it shouldve been looking to build a clearer picture or Mr Ms financial situation. I say 
this because I can see that when Mr M took out loan five he had two outstanding  loans with 
Sunny. Mr M also had borrowing with other short-term lenders. Mr M had also taken out his 
previous four loans with Sunny in quick succession  they were  all taken out within a month 
and often within days of each other. I think there  was enough within the information  Sunny 
had to indicate that Mr M was likely having  issued managing his finances  and he wouldnt be 
able to sustainably  repay this borrowing.  It seems  that Mr M was relying  on short  term credit  
Ref: DRN46028693to cover ongoing shortfalls so the lending  was not appropriate. Which means Sunny 
shouldnt have given  Mr M loan five.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr M had taken  out six loans  in just around three months. Loan six was 
taken out the same  day loan five was repaid and Mr M still had two loans  running  
with Sunny. Mr Ms loans were  often taken out days or weeks within  a previous loan 
being taken or paid back. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Mr M was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £250 and his subsequent loans varied in amount
considerably. But most  importantly there  didnt seem  to be a downward  trend  in the
amount Mr M was borrowing and loan six was for £200. At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr M was not likely borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  six was
taken out around  three months after Mr Ms first and his final loan was taken out 
almost six months after his first. And most significantly Mr M had issues repaying  his 
loans later in the lending  relationship. Mr M had also paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan six
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to
have had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans five to thirteen and Sunny  should put things  
right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Elevate Credit International Limited shouldnt have given Mr M loans five to thirteen.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
 
Ref: DRN46028694A)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Sunny has already refunded. 
B)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mr M which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled. 
C)Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Mr M as though they had been  
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr M having  
made overpayments  then Sunny should  refund these overpayments  with 8% simple  
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny  should  then refund  the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Mr M. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr M. 
E)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Mr Ms credit  file in 
relation to loan 1 - 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 6 -13 means 
any information recorded about  them is adverse, so Sunny should  remove these 
loans entirely from Mr Ms credit file. If Sunny  has sold any of the loans it should  ask 
the debt purchaser to do the same. Sunny do not have to remove any outstanding 
loans from Mr Ms credit  file until these have been  repaid, but it should  still remove  
any adverse information recorded about  these loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision
before 9 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4602869