K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about poor handling  of a chargeback claim by Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr S used his Barclays debit card to book his car in for a service and MOT. He was told the 
car had failed its MOT, and he used the card again  to pay for a new timing  belt. When  he 
went to collect the car he was charged  another £359. Mr S says the garage wouldnt give 
him an invoice or receipts, so he had no proof of the work that had been  done, or what  hed 
paid for.
Mr S asked Barclays to raise chargebacks for the three debit card transactions. As part of its 
process, Barclays asked Mr S to provide evidence in connection with the payments hed 
made. Mr S says he sent the information Barclays asked  for, but the bank didnt receive it. 
Barclays reversed the chargebacks and closed the case. When  Mr S complained, Barclays  
paid him £345  as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. When  Barclays didnt receive the 
evidence it needed  from Mr S, he was still within the 120 day period for raising a 
chargeback. And the merchant had asked  for further  information, but it hadnt raised a 
defence to the chargebacks.
The adjudicator considered it wouldve been reasonable for Barclays  to ask Mr S to send the 
information again. It wasnt possible to say whether Mr Ss claim wouldve been successful, 
so she didnt think Barclays needed  refund the full value of the chargebacks.
But the adjudicator thought Mr S should  be compensated for the lost opportunity to progress 
his chargeback claim, and the inconvenience caused. So she said Barclays should  pay £100  
to Mr S, in addition to the £345  it had already  paid.
Mr S accepted the adjudicators recommendation, but Barclays  didnt. It said it had followed 
the correct process  for dealing with chargebacks, and didnt consider Mr S had suffered any 
inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Barclays received  Mr Ss chargeback claim, it asked him for some more  information 
so that it could look into the dispute. Mr S has said he sent what  Barclays had asked for, but 
the bank didnt receive it. Mr S has provided this service with further copies  of the 
information he says he sent.
Im mindful that Barclays gave Mr S a relatively  short timeframe in which  to provide the 
information. And as the adjudicator has pointed out, even when the seven day period for 
sending the information had ended, Mr S was still within the 120 day period for making a 
chargeback claim. In addition, the merchant  hadnt  formally disputed the transactions  at that 
point.
Ref: DRN41841922So I agree that it wouldve been  reasonable for Barclays  to ask Mr S to provide the 
information again. 
I havent been able to safely  conclude  that the chargeback claim wouldve been successful, 
so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Barclays to refund all of the money Mr S paid. But 
Mr S lost the opportunity to pursue his claim, so I think  he should receive some 
compensation for that.
Barclays paid £345 as a gesture of goodwill. But in the circumstances,  I think its reasonable 
for it to pay a further £100.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay £100 to Mr S, in addition to the £345  
it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4184192