K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has cancelled his home 
insurance policy and is seeking to recover its claim costs on the ground  of fraud. Hes also 
unhappy with the way his claim  was handled.
background
In February 2018  Mr P made a claim to RSA for damage caused  by a water  leak. As a result 
his home  wasnt fit to live in.
RSA accepted the claim. It appointed a loss adjuster to manage it and they drew up a 
schedule of repair works and obtained a quote. They  estimated that the repairs  would take 
four weeks.
RSA asked its supplier to find temporary  accommodation for Mr Ps family,  which  included  
one disabled  person. The supplier had difficulty in finding suitable accommodation. In 
May 2018 Mr P told RSA hed found  a cottage suitable for his family. RSA approved the cost 
and paid the quoted  amount.  As the repair works  took longer than expected,  Mr P asked 
RSA for a further  amount  to extend  the rental  for another  four weeks.  RSA agreed and paid 
the amount requested to Mr P.
At the end of July, Mr P asked RSA to approve a cost of over £10,000  for a months let of a 
holiday cottage. RSA agreed but asked for a receipt for payment. Mr P forwarded an email 
acknowledging receipt of £10,000. RSA said this was insufficient. Mr P then admitted to RSA 
that hed created a fake receipt. He also admitted that apart from the first month he and his 
family hadnt stayed  at the properties  hed claimed  for.
RSA calculated that up to 24 August 2018 it had paid over £18,500 to Mr P for 
accommodation but that hed actually only incurred accommodation costs  of over £10,000. It 
said it was cancelling  the policy with effect  from the date Mr P had claimed the first payment 
he wasnt entitled to and it required him to repay  all the sums it had paid to date for 
accommodation and building work  totalling  £22,506.
Mr P explained that hed been concerned about  the effect the stress about accommodation 
issues was having  on some members of his family  with mental  health  issues.  He said he 
realised he shouldnt have  produced  the fake receipt  but hed been worried  he wouldnt get 
the payment for the next move in time.  As he was often booking  accommodation  at short  
notice, he had to pay the full amount on booking. Hed found that RSAs loss adjuster didnt 
transfer the funds  on time and so hed lose the accommodation hed been trying  to book. He 
also said the family had incurred  additional  food costs because they hadnt always been 
able to cook while in temporary accommodation and sometimes  they hadnt  felt up to 
cooking. He offered to repay  any amounts hed been  overpaid for accommodation.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. He also complained about  poor service  from 
RSAs loss adjuster  and said hed often had to chase up RSAs contractors. 
RSA agreed that it would only seek  to recover £7,000 for accommodation and not any other 
costs provided £5,000  was paid within the following 21 days. Mr P said he was unable  to do 
this. He said hed spent the additional  amount hed claimed on food and repairs.
Ref: DRN44629322Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He sympathised with Mr Ps personal  
circumstances but thought RSA was entitled  to take the action it had done. 
As Mr P didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For RSA to terminate the claim and cancel Mr Ps policy for fraud,  it needs  to show that there  
was some sort of dishonesty, and that the dishonesty  was an attempt  by Mr P to get more  
than he was entitled to under the policy. Its not my role to decide whether or not a 
customers claim is fraudulent. What I look at is whether  a business reached a reasonable 
decision about this. 
In this case Mr P has admitted that he sent a fake email to RSA in support of his claim for 
more accommodation  costs than hed actually  incurred. I appreciate that he might well have 
incurred other costs in respect of food, travel  and repairs which may mean  that hed spent 
about the full amount hed asked  RSA to pay. But I cant  be sure that those additional costs 
would have been covered  by his policy anyway. The fact remains  that by Mr Ps own 
admission he was dishonest.
I know Mr P has sought to explain why he was dishonest. Although Im very sorry to hear of 
Mr Ps family circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable for RSA to decide to use the 
fraud condition within  the policy to cancel  the policy and to seek to recover  part of the excess  
accommodation costs  that Mr P wasnt entitled  to. 
I also appreciate that at the time Mr P made the dishonest claim for accommodation costs, 
he was under a lot of pressure due to concerns  about his family situation. I can see that they 
were and still are a vulnerable family unit. So Ive looked at whether RSA should  have been 
more sensitive and flexible in the light of their vulnerability. 
Mr P has suggested that he and his family  had issues finding appropriate accommodation 
due to the delay on RSAs  part in putting them in funds. I can understand that it must have 
been very stressful always to be sorting this out at the last minute.  I think RSA could have 
been more responsive to the familys needs in terms of dealing with the approval  and funding 
further in advance of the moves. 
Looking at the claim handling  generally,  I can see that there were some  delays on the part of 
RSAs loss adjuster  and it could have done more  to help Mr P and his family.  I can 
understand why Mr P felt under immense pressure as a result of this and that he spent a lot 
of time chasing the loss adjuster. But as RSA has now reduced  the amount its seeking  to 
recover in respect of its claim costs, I dont think it would  be appropriate in the circumstances 
to require RSA to compensate Mr P for its poor service.
Ref: DRN44629323my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. I make no award  against Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462932