K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited closed his account, refused to 
provide him with an audio CD of his account  terms and conditions,  and gave him poor 
customer service  when  he complained.
background
Mr C had a catalogue  shopping account  with Shop Direct. Shop Direct  says it wrote to him in 
November 2016  to tell him it would close his account because  he hadnt been  using  it, but 
Mr C says he never received that letter. In early 2017, Shop Direct closed his account. Mr C 
says he first found out about that much later, when he tried to buy a Christmas present.
Mr C complained to Shop  Direct about the account closure. He said he had made a payment 
on the account shortly  before it was closed,  so it was not true that the account had been 
inactive. He asked  for a copy of the account  terms and conditions  in audio  format because 
he was dyslexic, but Shop Direct  said it did not provide that service. He complained  about  
that, and also that Shop  Direct kept him waiting for too long on the phone and someone  had 
hung up on him. He also complained that Shop  Direct had told him to make his complaint in 
writing, knowing that he was dyslexic.
Shop Direct apologised for telling Mr C to complain  in writing, and it paid him £50 for that 
mistake. But it denied the other allegations  of poor service. It said that Mr C had not 
purchased anything since 2014 (in fact this was wrong, his last purchase had been in April 
2015). So it had closed his account because he had not bought  anything  in a long time. It 
was not its fault if he had not received his letter.
Mr C brought this complaint to our Service. He wants  his account to be reopened, because  
he has had the same account number since 2000 and he has memorised it. Also,  he was 
unable to open a new account, because his email address  was still registered to the closed 
account, and Shop Directs systems  do not allow two accounts to be associated with the 
same email  address. Shop Direct recommended that Mr C open a new email account.
One of our adjudicators considered this complaint. She asked Shop Direct to provide Mr C 
with the account terms and conditions in audio  format, as a reasonable adjustment under the 
Equality Act 2010 for his dyslexia, and this was done.
The adjudicator then rejected most,  but not all, of this complaint. She thought  that Shop 
Direct had been  entitled to close the account,  because Mr C hadnt used it for a long time  
he hadnt bought anything  in a year and a half, and he had finished paying  for his last 
purchase in February  2016. She accepted that Shop Direct had sent a warning letter,  as 
required in the terms and conditions, telling him that if he wanted to keep his account then 
he would  need  to buy something. She listened to the recordings of Mr Cs phone  calls with 
Shop Direct, and she did not agree that anyone had been rude to him, or ended a call 
prematurely. She did agree that he had sometimes been on hold for a long time, but that 
was usually because  he had wanted  to speak to a different  member  of staff who was not 
available. But she did not think  it was reasonable to expect Mr C to obtain a new email 
address, and she recommended that Shop Direct remove his email address from the closed 
account, so that he can open a new account with his existing  email  address.
She also said that Shop Direct should have given Mr C the account terms and conditions  in 
audio format when he first asked  it to. She didnt  think this had caused  him any disadvantage  
Ref: DRN48330082in bringing his complaint. But she still thought  Shop Direct should have done it sooner  than it 
did, and that its failure to do so caused  Mr C distress because  it had deprived him of 
information he felt he needed to effectively  pursue  his complaint. She decided that Shop 
Direct should pay Mr C another £100  for that, in addition to the £50 it had paid him already.
Neither party accepted that decision. Mr C said that the £50 Shop Direct  had paid him was 
a minimal  amount which did not adequately reflect what it had done. And Shop Direct said 
providing documents to its customers on an audio CD was not something it did. In providing 
them at the adjudicators request, it had gone  above  and beyond what it would  normally do. 
It pointed out that Mr C had only asked for the terms and conditions of his account nearly 
two years after his account had been closed.
This case has been referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I regret that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but I currently think that the £50 Shop Direct has paid him is 
enough. I will explain why.
the terms and conditions
I completely understand why Mr C wanted  the terms and conditions. It was so he could  
check whether or not Shop Direct  had complied with them  when it closed his account. He 
thought this was evidence  relevant to his complaint, and he wanted to know  what the terms 
said before  he escalated his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  For all he 
knew, this evidence might  have helped him to persuade Shop Direct that he had a valid 
complaint, so that coming to our Service would not be necessary. So it doesnt matter that 
he had never asked for the terms and conditions  before. He hadnt thought he needed them  
before. So I can see why it must have been  frustrating for him when  Shop  Direct told him he 
couldnt have  an audio CD.
However, I can only uphold a complaint about that if, firstly,  I agree that Shop Direct was 
under an obligation to provide the terms and conditions in audio  format, and secondly, that 
by not doing so, it caused Mr C distress or inconvenience which deserves more 
compensation than Shop  Direct has paid him so far. I can award  compensation, but I cannot 
fine Shop  Direct as a punishment for not doing  something it was supposed to.
Mr C, and our adjudicator, thought that providing an audio CD would have been a 
reasonable adjustment under the Equality  Act. The adjudicator explained  that software to 
convert text to speech can be obtained  inexpensively, and gave two examples,  which  cost 
£180 and £220 (although there would also be the cost of the CDs). Considering  how much 
Shop Direct is worth (according to records held by Companies House), I dont think  this 
would be an extravagance. Shop Direct must  have  other dyslexic customers, so its not as if 
this would only be of benefit to one person. So while I appreciate that this is currently not 
something that Shop Direct does, on balance I think that it was not an unreasonable  
adjustment to expect  it to make.
So in principle I could  uphold this complaint, but Im afraid I do not think  that it is worth  £100 
of compensation.  I think that for two reasons. Firstly,  although Mr C has argued that the 
terms and conditions are very long and it isnt realistic to ask a friend to read the whole thing 
Ref: DRN48330083to him  and I can see his point  he only needed  to ask Shop Direct which paragraph 
covers its right to close his account and then ask someone to read that paragraph to him. Or 
the Citizens Advice Bureau could have found  that bit for him if hed asked it. It wasnt  
necessary for him to go through the whole lot. Secondly, all he had to do was bring his 
complaint to our Service, and we would have read the terms and conditions and then told 
him what they said Shop Direct had to do to close his account.
I agree  with the adjudicators opinion  that Mr C has not been disadvantaged by not being 
provided with the terms and conditions in audio  format. Nor was there any risk that that 
might happen. So while I am sure that it must have been irritating,  I dont agree that this 
matter is worth any compensation.
was Shop  Direct entitled to close  the account?
There are actually two documents with terms and conditions on them.  Mr Cs credit 
agreement, which is the basis of his catalogue shopping account, is two pages  long, and this 
document is the most  relevant. The other one, which is 19 pages long, is the terms and 
conditions for using Shop Directs website.
Paragraph 22 of the credit agreement says that either party  may end the agreement. There 
doesnt have to be any particular reason. It goes on to say that if Shop Direct  ends  the 
agreement, it will give two months notice. (Paragraph 23 lists situations in which Shop Direct 
can end the agreement without notice, but none  of those  situations applied in Mr Cs case.)
The terms of using  Shop  Directs website  say that Shop Direct can close  an account by 
giving seven days notice.
Shop Directs records show that it sent a letter to Mr C on 11 November 2016,  and that it 
closed his account a little over two months  later. The letter  mentioned that Shop Direct has 
the right to end a credit agreement after giving two months notice, and then went  on to say:
We have noticed you have not shopped on your account  with us for a considerable 
period of time. Therefore,  we hereby give notice to terminate the agreement and 
shall close the account  unless you place  an order 
It then explained  that if Mr C placed  an order through his account, then his account would 
remain open.
Shop Direct didnt  have to give a reason, but it did, and Mr C has questioned that reason. He 
says that because he made a payment on the account shortly before it was closed, the 
account was still active. But a payment is not a purchase. He needed to buy a new item to 
keep the account.
I accept that Mr C didnt receive the letter, but I also accept that it was sent. Its not Shop 
Directs fault that he didnt  receive  it.
However, Shop Direct knew that Mr C was dyslexic  and couldnt read the letter. Mr C says 
Shop Direct should have phoned him instead  of sending a letter.  He says if someone had 
phoned him, then he would  have  known what he had to do to keep the account open. So 
I have thought about whether that was something Shop Direct was required to do.
Ref: DRN48330084The terms and conditions  of the credit agreement  say that Shop Direct may give notice in 
writing, but that by itself doesnt mean that Shop  Direct does not have to make  reasonable 
adjustments. On the other hand,  the letter  was a short one, and so it was not unreasonable 
of Shop Direct  to have expected that Mr C could have got someone  to read it to him, if he 
had received it. So I think that sending the letter was enough. The fact that Mr C did not 
receive it did not put him in a worse position than he would have  been  in if he had not been 
dyslexic.
customer service  issues
I recognise that Mr C feels very strongly about being  told he had to complain in writing, when 
Shop Direct already  knew  he was dyslexic. But I think  that was an honest mistake,  rather  
than deliberate, and it did not prevent him from complaining over the phone once he had 
explained why this was a problem. I think £50 is fair compensation for that. (However, 
I recommend that Shop  Direct considers changing the way it notes its customers disabilities  
on their files to make  them more prominent, so that they are not accidentally overlooked by 
their call handlers.)
I have listened  to all the calls and I cannot  identify one where someone at Shop Direct ends 
a call prematurely. There were several times  when  Mr C was put on hold, but only because 
he asked to speak  to the call handlers manager,  and I would not expect a manager to be 
available at the drop of a hat, so its not unreasonable that this meant Mr C had to wait 
sometimes.
So I currently do not intend to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  findings
Shop Direct accepted my provisional decision. Mr C did not. He authorised his brother to 
represent him in this complaint, and his brother made further submissions on his behalf. He 
said that Mr Cs understanding is very poor,  and so having someone read something aloud 
to him once  is often  not enough  it has to be explained to him three or four times.  Mr C also 
has depression. He often  has to assist Mr C, but he cant visit him every  day. So receiving 
information on an audio CD is very important  to Mr C.
On further reflection on this case, on reconsidering the evidence, and after consulting 
another ombudsman  with experience in dealing with matters arising under the Equality Act, 
I asked Shop Direct if it would agree to pay Mr C another £250 for his trouble (in an email 
dated 24 February). Shop Direct said it would reply by 6 March, but it has not done  so, and 
so I have proceeded to issue this final decision without waiting.
my findings
I remain of the view that Shop Direct  should have provided Mr C with its terms and 
conditions on an audio CD, for the reasons previously  given.  Its refusal to do so was an 
error. I also remain of the view that the effect  of Shop Directs refusal to do that was 
mitigated by the fact that it did not ultimately prevent  Mr C from bringing this complaint to our 
Service, or affect the outcome  of his complaint about the closure of his account.
Nevertheless, on reconsidering this case,  and taking into account what Mr Cs brother has 
told me, I no longer think that £50 fairly reflects the emotional impact on Mr C caused by the 
two customer service  failings by Shop Direct  which I have described above.  These  are (in no 
Ref: DRN48330085particular order) the refusal  to provide terms and conditions in an audio  format, and the 
request that Mr C make his complaint in writing, knowing that he could not. I now think  that 
£300, in total,  is fair compensation for both of these issues. From that I will deduct the £50 
already paid.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Shop Direct  Finance Company 
Limited to pay Mr C £250, in addition to the £50 it has paid him already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4833008