K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Tesco  Personal Finance PLC handled his account. 
Specifically, hes unhappy  that it didnt communicate  with him properly and wouldnt accept 
his offer to settle the debt.
background
Mr L had a credit card account with Tesco. This was defaulted  and terminated  in 2011. Mr L 
entered into a debt management plan and it was agreed that he would pay Tesco £5 per 
month to pay off his debt.  In 2018, Mr Ls debt management company  went into liquidation,  
so his payments  stopped.
Mr L attempted to contact  Tesco  to understand how much he owed and to arrange a 
settlement. Mr L explained he didnt receive any response from Tesco,  and his new debt 
advisor wasnt able to get through  either.  Mr L later went through  an income and expenditure 
form with Tesco over the telephone and offered £3,000 to settle his debt fully.
Around a month later Mr L chased a response,  and Tesco said it wouldnt accept the offer. It 
instead gave a settlement figure  of over £6,800 even  though the outstanding debt was just 
over £6,000 at the time. Mr L complained.  Tesco  in its final response  explained it had 
made an error with the figure on the letter. It explained it would accept around £4,800  to 
settle the debt.  It also paid Mr L £50 compensation as an apology  for the error.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He explained that Tesco  wasnt obliged to accept 
Mr Ls offer in full settlement of his debt. And he explained that it followed the correct  
process when determining what it would accept as a settlement. But the adjudicator said that 
Tesco made errors. It didnt correspond  with Mr L when he tried to contact it both in writing  
and over the phone  through a third party. He also explained that Tescos  incorrect  settlement 
figure wouldve caused Mr L some trouble and upset. The adjudicator  recommended  Tesco 
pay an additional £200 compensation  bringing  the total up to £250.
Mr L explained that the errors Tesco made caused his mental health to decline, and he had 
to take around  10 weeks off work.  Tesco said it felt the £50 it had paid Mr L was reasonable. 
It said it didnt know about Mr Ls health  issues at the time, and that it didnt receive  some  of 
the correspondence Mr L says he sent.  
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Tesco  needs  to 
do more to put things right. Ill explain why below.
Settlement figure
Tesco isnt obliged to accept any settlement figure  that Mr L puts forward.  So, I cant say it 
wasnt being reasonable when it rejected  Mr Ls offer of £3,000  to settle  the debt. Id expect 
Tesco to assess Mr Ls situation  by understanding his circumstances. I can see that it 
gathered the relevant information  over the phone with Mr L and completed  an income and 
Ref: DRN42724582expenditure form. So, I think it has taken the right steps when deciding  whether to accept 
Mr Ls settlement offer. And I wont be asking  it to do anything differently  in relation to this.
Tesco sent a letter to Mr L saying it would accept  a settlement figure  of over £6,800. This 
was an error, but I think this error  wouldve caused Mr L some  trouble and upset. He has told 
us that he struggles with his mental health,  and that this situation  has impacted him. Given  
hed tried to settle  the debt and tried to communicate with Tesco for some time (which  Ive 
covered below)  I think it wouldve been  a shock to see such  a high figure.
Tesco has said that because the letter had a figure for a higher amount than Mr L owed,  it 
was clear there was an error. But I dont think it wouldve  been  obvious to Mr L at the time.  
Hed been contacted by a debt collector at this point and was only in this situation as his 
debt management  company had gone into liquidation. Hed tried to settle his debt for an 
amount he felt he could  afford and hadnt had much correspondence in return. So, when he 
received a letter asking for more than he owed,  I dont  think he wouldve put it down to a 
clear error but instead wouldve been shocked at the figure. And I think  this wouldve  caused 
him some distress, and Tesco should pay more  than £50 to recognise this. So, I think  Tesco 
needs to do more.
Communication
Mr L has complained  that Tesco didnt respond  to repeated  phone  calls and letters.  Tesco 
has explained that it didnt receive  some of these  letters, and it has no record  of the missed  
phone calls. Ive had a look at what happened. I can see that a phone  conversation  
happened on 24 May 2018 where  Mr L put forward his settlement offer of £3,000. Tesco  said 
that it would  put this forward  to the relevant team, and someone will respond within seven 
days. But there was no response.  Mr L had to chase this almost a month  later. As Mr L was 
trying to settle his debt,  and hed had the conversation explaining  his situation, I think  a lack 
of communication  from Tesco afterwards  wouldve  caused Mr L some worry.
When Mr L did chase, Tesco couldnt  see that anything had been  done. A few days  later it 
sent out a letter saying  it would accept an amount higher than Mr L owed. Ive addressed  the 
upset this wouldve  caused above. And I think this is poor customer  service given that Mr L 
had to wait a month for a letter that was incorrect anyway. Hed not been able to move 
forward at this point.  It was only after Mr L raised  a complaint that he was told of the actual 
settlement figure Tesco would accept.
I understand that Mr L has tried to contact Tesco  on several occasions without success,  and 
I think its likely that this happened.  But I also dont  think  its fair for Tesco to be responsible  
for any issues caused by the postal service. This also appears  to have happened when 
Tesco has written to Mr L with the final response  which Mr L has said he didnt receive.  But 
as Ive explained above, I do think that Tesco has made errors in not responding when  it 
said it would  and issuing  an incorrect settlement  figure.
To put things right I think  that Tesco should pay Mr L a further £200 compensation. I say this 
because its errors caused Mr L some  distress during an already worrying  time. Tesco  was 
made aware  of Mr Ls situation, he tried to put things right after his debt management 
company went into liquidation. And it failed to respond when it said it would and caused  him 
further worry by asking him to pay more than he owed.
Ref: DRN42724583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Tesco  Personal  Finance Plc must 
pay Mr L an additional £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4272458