K821x#15complaint
Mrs B and Mr S complain  about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their claim for damage 
to their home from an escape of water under their building insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mrs B and Mr Ss home was damaged by an escape  of water in March  2018 which they 
reported to AXA. AXA accepted their claim under their building cover, but Mrs B and Mr S 
didnt hold contents insurance.  AXA appointed loss adjusters  to manage the claim, who 
arranged to dry the house and within a week  dehumidifiers were installed. 
AXAs agents sent details of three properties as alternative accommodation for Mrs B and Mr 
S, but they rejected them saying that they didn't meet their requirements, and moved  in with 
their parents. AXA paid Mrs B and Mr S £10,600 on 10 April 2018,  £250 on 17 April 2018 
and £7,375 on 9 May 2018. AXA said it would continue to pay rent until Mrs B and Mr S 
moved back into their home.
Mrs B and Mr S said that two weeks later AXAs agents disposed of their new, first floor 
carpets without their consent. Mrs B and Mr S said theyd been told by their carpet  
technician that the carpets  could be salvaged and cleaned and they had planned for the 
technician to remove them, and so the cost of the carpets should now be met by AXA.  They 
said AXAs  agents  then condemned the boiler  and stopped drying the house out. They  said 
nothing was done to prevent dampness  and mould  until drying resumed  in late May 2018.
Mrs B and Mr S said AXAs loss adjuster sent a surveyor who prepared  two reports about  
the damage, but AXA then sent its own team to do the same checks. They  said AXA wasted 
time attempting to reduce the repair work. They said the repairs were delayed  until January 
2019. The delayed  repairs meant a completion date of September 2019 was planned. 
Mrs B and Mr S complained to AXA about  its handling and delays in dealing  with their claim.  
They said AXA s claims handler told them the claim was likely to take six months to resolve, 
but it took ten months to start the repairs. They said they have a baby and being displaced 
for this time has proved  to be extremely difficult for them personally and in their work.
AXA acknowledged delays  in the drying  out and said this was partly  due to having to remove 
flooring containing asbestos. AXA said its loss adjusters requested  Mrs B and Mr S remove  
their items on several occasions and the delay had hindered progress. AXA acknowledged  
delays in the schedule of works. It said as Mrs B and Mr S didnt have contents insurance  
theres no cover for their carpets.  AXA said its loss adjuster advised  that the ground floor 
carpets were  removed in liaison with Mrs B and Mr S. It said the carpets had shrunk and 
couldnt be restored  and Mrs B and Mr S had thanked its agent for her assistance  with this. 
AXA said the number  of visits to Mrs B and Mr Ss home were necessary because the claim 
had escalated in value and it needed to check the accuracy and pricing of the initial scope of 
work. AXA also said that further asbestos  needed  to be removed before the work could start. 
AXA apologised for the delays and offered  to pay Mrs B and Mr S £250 compensation.
Mrs B and Mr S brought their complaint to our service, saying AXA treated them  inhumanely 
and the compensation was laughable. They said AXA failed to make adequate  provision to 
Ref: DRN41599852rehouse them or allow them to rehouse  themselves by not providing timescales or a deposit  
required by landlords.  This meant they had to live apart causing  a strain on their marriage 
and family  life. They said AXA was wrong to say they caused a delay by not removing their 
possessions as they werent told to do this, and work went  on around some  items. 
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He said Mrs B and Mr S were told 
the repairs would take about six months, but they took a year longer and AXA acknowledged  
delays. The investigator said Mrs B and Mr S advised AXA they were  having difficulties 
securing accommodation without a security deposit  and had arranged to pay their families 
rent instead,  whilst searching for short term tenancies. He said AXAs payment for rent and 
disturbance allowance was fair, but it should  pay rent until they move back  to their home.
The investigator said AXA had done as much  as it could to find alternative accommodation 
and had Mrs B and Mr S accepted this, the impact of being away from home may not have 
been as great. But he said the impact on family life, employment, and their childs  schooling 
meant AXA should pay £200  compensation for each month over the six months predicted 
timescale, totalling £2,400 compensation. The investigator said the repair  work had changed 
a room size and the original carpet  couldnt  be reused, so AXA should pay for new carpets.
AXA disagreed saying complex claims  always  take longer than six months. It said Mrs B and 
Mr S rejected all accommodation as they wanted to live nearer their parents and work. It said 
it had no evidence that they continued to look for alternative accommodation. AXA said it 
told Mrs B and Mr S that without contents cover  it shouldnt  have  to pay for carpets  and 
wouldnt pay a deposit. AXA said the investigator acknowledged  that Mrs B and Mr S chose 
to live apart rather than take a rental  property together but is penalising it for their decision. 
AXA said a room was changed in size and it provided emails to show that Mrs B and Mr S 
wanted the alterations to be made.  AXA requested an ombudsman  review the complaint.
Mrs B and Mr S responded to the investigator saying that work  was ongoing, and they were  
told that only after this was finished  should  they replace  their carpets.  Mrs B and Mr S said 
replacement carpets should  include the downstairs  hallway and living room. They said this 
would delay their moving  back  home and this further delay on the investigators £200  per 
month calculation  meant they should be paid £2,800  rather than £2,400. 
Mrs B and Mr S also said they had a gardener maintain their front and back gardens  to a 
high level, but this couldnt be maintained. They said they asked AXA for a gardener and 
AXA had requested quotes,  which meant they had to ring around, and take time off work.  
They said the maintenance of the garden should  be included within AXAs  repair costs. 
AXA responded that neither Mrs Bs photos  or comment that their gardener  visited  every 8 -
12 weeks showed a 'high  level' of maintenance of their garden.  AXA said there were no 
attempts by a gardener to access the site or by Mrs B and Mr S to request  such access. 
AXA said this was a maintenance issue, which is specifically excluded  under the policy.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I provisionally decided  to uphold the complaint  in part. Ive set out the parties responses to 
my findings  and my request for further information under the following headings.
Delays
Ref: DRN41599853I said the claim was halted by the discovery  of asbestos in the flooring and the non-removal 
of personal possessions. I can see that AXAs  loss adjuster emailed Mrs B and Mr S on 28 
March 2018 and strongly recommended they remove their contents,  and they received 
similar messages in July 2018. AXA said that the delay held up the drying process. 
I thought AXAs loss adjuster made  it clear  to Mrs B and Mr S that it couldn't  complete strip 
out works,  asbestos  removal  or drying  until they removed their items, but they didnt do so 
until 9 September.  Whilst I thought this caused  some delay, I thought  that much greater 
delays came from AXAs agents and this led to problems in drying Mrs B and Mr Ss home.  
I said there was a further delay by AXAs agents after the drying was completed awaiting a 
schedule of work and procurement report. I said there were further delays during the repairs  
which meant Mrs B and Mr S had to wait much  longer to get back into their home. 
Mrs B said they werent asked to remove their items, and as the work didnt start until many 
months later it made no difference.  Mrs B provided  emails showing delays with the repairs  
and responses from AXAs loss adjusters. She said AXA had caused around five months  
delay until the work  started and this was meant  to be completed by September  2019.  She 
said further work was then required  and delayed their return home until February 2020.
Alternative accommodation
Mrs B and Mr S said that AXA didnt  make adequate provision to rehouse them and because 
it didnt provide timescales  they couldnt  rehouse themselves and they had to live apart with 
their respective parents. AXA said Mrs B and Mr S were content  to make their own 
arrangements for accommodation and AXA agreed to pay them rent. 
I didnt think AXA or its agents  kept Mrs B and Mr S properly  updated during the claim and 
this didnt help them to make arrangements. But Mrs B and Mr S hadnt said they were 
unhappy about the accommodation arrangements during the claim. I thought Mrs B and Mr 
S wanted to find rental accommodation together,  but not in the area where  they lived, and 
this prevented them accepting three separate properties AXAs agents offered. I thought this 
was a major  cause of the impacts  of family  dislocation Mrs B has mentioned.
Mrs B said had they known that the work would take two years,  they would have snapped  up 
a suitable property offered in the town where they lived and that would have avoided the 
impacts that she had described.  But she said they were told it would be four to six months 
away from home and so they relied upon this. 
AXA provided emails  from Mr S about the accommodation offered. On 27 March 2018 Mr S 
wrote, Unfortunately,  none of these  properties are suitable.  We briefly spoke about the 
requirements when  you initially began your search.  However, as the property will likely have 
to be our home for 6 months or more,  due to the extensive damage to our home I thought  it 
helpful to set out again, what would be considered as an acceptable substitute for my family.
The next day AXAs agent wrote to say that the area Mrs B and Mr S were  seeking for 
alternative accommodation is far more expensive than where their home is situated and that 
the policy allows for reasonable accommodation costs. The agent went on, There  also 
appears to be a large list of requirements as to what will and will not be accepted.  He then 
provided an option for, a Barn Conversion  with 3 bedrooms, double  garage and comes fully 
furnished. The cost per month is £1750. The above may be of interest to you.
Ref: DRN41599854Mr S responded a week later,  Regarding  the long-term rental, we have given consideration 
to the proposals  made. However,  sadly,  we consider the suggestions provided thus far, 
unsuitable.
Mrs B said the properties offered to them werent like-for-like with where  they lived. AXA 
thought that Mr S had declared  the options  'unsuitable'  without providing  any reasons. AXA 
believed Mrs B and Mr S were deliberately  difficult about properties offered as they wanted 
accommodation elsewhere, at a much  higher cost. AXA said this isnt what  the policy  covers.
Carpets
Mrs B said they had their carpets assessed as salvageable and theyd arranged  removal and 
storage when they were destroyed by AXAs agents.  But AXA said no assessment or 
removal had been  arranged and the carpets  had to be removed to allow the drying  out to 
take place and Mrs B and Mr S had agreed to this. 
AXA said the upstairs room sizes were  altered at Mrs B and Mr Ss request and the carpets 
wouldnt fit any longer.  Mrs B said they had no choice but to agree this as the carpet  had 
shrunk and alterations  had to be made  to the rooms.
I hadnt seen anything about the carpet arrangements Mrs B said they had made  with a 
carpet technician to salvage the carpets. I said that as Mrs B and Mr S didnt have contents 
cover, I didnt think it would be fair to require AXA to pay for replacement  carpets.
Mrs B confirmed that the upstairs carpet had shrunk and alterations were  required. She said 
only the ground floor and stair carpets  were removed and destroyed  by AXAs  agents and 
this was by mistake as they thought they held contents insurance. Mrs B said they hadnt  
agreed their removal as AXA had said. She said the carpets could have been salvaged  and 
their technician, who was due to attend later that week,  would have  saved them paying for 
new carpets. But she said she didnt  have anything to show  a technician was involved, or 
that they had disagreed that the carpet should  be removed. 
AXA said the agreed practice  at this stage of a claim involving an escape of water  is to 
remove saturated materials to assist  control of the environment. AXA said there was 
standing water present  in the property when  the stabilisation contractor arrived  and this had 
caused the carpets to shrink - in effect  there was no way they could have been reused. 
Gardening
Mrs B and Mr S said that their garden  was well maintained  before  they moved out and AXA 
should pay for it to be restored. Mrs B said this had been estimated at a cost of £2,500. AXA 
said claims for garden maintenance are excluded by the policy.
I hadnt seen anything to suggest the garden was well maintained  and I thought that during  
the claim Mrs B and Mr S could have used their garden contractor at their home on 
weekends to work on the garden.  I didnt think the policy  required AXA to make  a payment, 
but I asked it to reconsider its position  on this part of the claim.
Mrs B said gardening  could not have taken  place at weekends as they were  told that anyone 
not a builder on the 'building site' had to be accompanied by building staff. She said there  
was also a sign on the ground  floor front window which set out the dangers  of being on site.
Ref: DRN41599855AXA said in order to validate any costs associated with the gardening it would need to speak 
to Mrs B and Mr Ss gardener.  It said it needed  to validate that the garden had been looked 
after as Mrs B had said, and what work was done  and at what cost. AXA said Mrs B was 
unwilling to provide this information and so it didnt feel it should offer any costs. AXA said its 
site contractors said no contact was made with them about access to the site for gardening.
Compensation
Mrs B set out the impact the claim has had upon  her family and their childs education.  She 
said AXA purposely  kept them out of the loop about  timescales as it didnt wish to draw 
attention to the delays it knew would happen. I didnt  think AXA had tried to keep Mrs B and 
Mr S in the dark about their claim, but I thought  it couldve  kept them better  informed. 
The investigator said Mrs B and Mr S couldve reduced the effect of the claim by accepting 
one of the alternative accommodation options  from AXAs agents. I agreed, but I didnt think  
the investigator had followed this in his award  of compensation. I thought the six months Mrs 
B said she was told by AXA that the claim would take was only an indication  at the start of 
the claim.  Complex  escape of water  claims such as this would normally  take far longer. 
I thought AXA and its agents  caused  avoidable  delays of about five to six months.  I thought 
the impact on Mrs B and Mr S was significant  in that they suffered the dislocation  of normal  
life and had to live away from home.  I said fair compensation  for this would be £1,000. Mrs B 
disagreed and said the compensation  should be far greater  than that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the further detailed 
submissions from both parties. 
My provisional decision covered the period of Mrs B and Mr Ss complaint until the start of 
September 2019 when they expected to return home. Mrs B said that didnt  happen until 
February 2020 and has raised further issues with unpaid rent, delays and unfinished repairs. 
Businesses have the right to consider all complaints before they are reviewed by our service. 
I have explained  to Mrs B that this means  they will need to put their complaints about events 
from the start of September  2019 to AXA before our service can consider them. 
Delays
AXAs loss adjuster made it clear to Mrs B and Mr S that it couldn't complete strip out works, 
asbestos removal or drying  until they removed their items, but they didnt do so until 9 
September. I still think this caused  some delay, but I remain of the view that the greater 
delays came from AXAs agents and this led to problems with damp and mould in Mrs B and 
Mr Ss home. This was subsequently dealt with by the drying  out process.
Having reconsidered  Mrs B and Mr Ss complaint  and the evidence, I remain of the view that 
AXA and its agents  were responsible for several  months delays, poor communications  and 
poor claim  handling. 
Alternative accommodation
Ref: DRN41599856Mrs B said had they known they would be out of home for more than the six months AXA 
estimated, they would have considered the local options put forward  by AXAs agents more  
seriously. Mr Ss emails  to AXA show that he was thinking of alternative accommodation 
requirements that could  extend for more  than six months, yet he declined  those  options.
Im struck that he did so in the latter  case without  providing reasons. This strengthens  my 
view that Mrs B and Mr S wanted accommodation  not where they lived,  but in a an obviously 
more expensive area. AXA reached  the view that they were being deliberately difficult about  
local properties for this reason. I dont know if thats  correct but I dont think AXA was 
required to pay for properties  in a more expensive area than the insured property. And I think  
it acted fairly  towards them in its attempt to provide alternatives.
Carpets
Mrs B has sent emails between her and AXA and its agents.  But there arent any with a 
carpet technician about  salvage or storage of her carpet, or any reference to this with AXA. 
Mrs B hasnt said who their carpet  technician  was. There is an email from Mrs B to AXAs 
agent just after the carpet  was removed thanking her for her assistance.
In my provisional decision I said that I was surprised that Mrs B and Mr S hadnt complained 
about the destruction of their carpet  for six months.  Mrs B explained that this was because 
they expected to see the carpet listed on the schedule for repairs and replacements but 
complained when this proved not to be the case. Notwithstanding their expectation  of a 
replacement, I dont  understand  why Mrs B or Mr S didnt comment to AXA or its agents 
about the loss of their carpet  for six months,  particularly  as later on Mrs B said that the 
carpet was destroyed on the erroneous  belief by AXAs agents that they held contents cover.
Mrs B said the upstairs carpet had shrunk with the water damage.  Given  that the water also 
saturated the downstairs  carpet and the damage wasnt notified  immediately, I think its likely 
this would have  been in a similar condition and likely to shrink. Im also aware that the 
downstairs carpet was in contact with asbestos floor tiles and so with a baby I dont think  Mrs 
B and Mr S would have  wanted to retain it anyway. 
There is no dispute between the parties that carpets  are covered by contents  insurance and 
Mrs B and Mr S didnt have this cover. For the reasons Ive given I think  it was reasonable 
for AXAs agents to dispose of the carpet  and I dont  think  AXA should  have to pay for Mrs B 
and Mr Ss replacement carpets. 
Gardening 
Its clear from Mrs B and Mr Ss policy that claims for garden maintenance arent covered. 
However, Mrs B says its not maintenance but restoration of the garden after two years 
neglect thats required. AXA thinks that gardening was possible during  the repairs and said 
no attempt to do this had been made. 
Im pleased that AXA is prepared to reconsider its approach to the cost of restoring the 
garden as the claim took so much  longer  than anticipated. To assist this, I recommend that 
Mrs B and Mr S provide AXA with details of their gardener  so AXA can assess  what work 
they were paying  for before the claim. And they should provide further details of their 
estimate for £2,500 so that AXA can be satisfied this doesnt  include improvements rather  
than just restoration.
Ref: DRN41599857Compensation
It must have been very difficult for Mrs B and Mr S not knowing when the repairs would start, 
or how long they would take. Mrs B has described  the anxiety she has suffered during this 
period and I sympathise with her as she didnt know when they would be able to return  
home, and this must have been  hard with a baby. I remain of the view that AXAs claim 
handling was characterised  by poor planning,  lack of coordination of the various contractors, 
and poor and delayed communications.
Ive said that Mrs B and Mr S could have avoided some of the delay by reacting to AXAs 
agents emails to remove their contents. However, most of the delay was caused  by AXA and 
its agents slow and uncoordinated handling  of the claim. 
I thought the six months Mrs B said she was told by AXA that the claim would take was only 
an indication  at the start of the claim, and complex escape of water claims such  as this, 
would normally take far longer. It seems  from Mr Ss email to AXAs agent at the start of the 
claim (see above) that he had some awareness of this. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mrs B and Mr S could have greatly minimised the 
impact on their marriage, family life and childs early  nursery  care,  had they selected 
accommodation from the three properties  offered. Mrs B has said they wanted 
accommodation some  way away from where  they lived, to be near their parents, but also 
that what they were  offered locally wasnt like-for-like. 
Mr S gave no reasons  for rejecting what appeared to be very suitable alternative  
accommodation and I can understand why AXAs agents didnt think it worthwhile to find any 
others. AXA reached the view that they were  being  deliberately difficult about local 
properties for this reason. This may be correct,  and, in any event, AXA wasnt required by 
the policy to pay for accommodation in a more  expensive  area than the insured property. I 
think AXA treated  Mrs B and Mr S fairly  in its attempts to rehouse  them.
Overall, I still think that AXA and its agents were responsible for avoidable delays of about  
five to six months before the repairs  started.  I thought the impact on Mrs B and Mr S was 
significant in that they suffered the dislocation of normal life and had to live away from home. 
I remain of the view that £1,000 represents  fair compensation in respect of this poor service. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs B and Mr S, but I hope  they will understand the 
reasons why I have  reached this view.
If Mrs B and Mr S reject this decision it will have no effect and other options will remain open  
to them  in pursuing their complaint, including legal action.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given here it is my final decision  that the complaint is upheld  in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs B and Mr S £1,000  compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  its poor claims handling  service had upon them. AXA can deduct from 
this any compensation  it has already paid to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.
Ref: DRN41599858Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4159985