K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Retail Money  Market Ltd, trading as RateSetter, did not make clear the 
charges which  applied to a loan he applied for, prior to the hard credit search. He says he 
felt pushed into accepting  the loan. 
background
On 21 June 2018 Mr S said he completed a no obligation  application form to obtain a 
personalised quote for a loan of £35,000, repayable over five years. He said RateSetter 
gave him an interest  rate of 9.9%  APR which he said was acceptable to him. He said at this 
point no hard credit  searches were completed and all he knew  about the loan was the APR 
and that there was no mention of loan fees.
Mr S said that since there was no mention of loan fees, he thought  he could presume that 
the entire 9.9% would  represent  interest plus minimal costs such as negligible administration  
costs or same  day transfer costs. He continued  with the application and a hard credit search 
was completed.  The following day his loan was approved by RateSetter and he was then 
provided with the key facts which he said concerned him. The interest rate on the loan was 
5.4% per annum fixed. There  was an upfront  fee of £3,276 which was added to the loan 
balance. On early repayment  that full loan fee would be payable. 
He said had he known  there would be an extortionate lenders fee he would never have 
proceeded with the application and would  have found an alternative. He said because a hard 
credit search had been done and marked on his file an alternative lender might see this as a 
negative so he felt he had no choice but to accept RateSetters offer.  He raised  a complaint. 
RateSetter said that all the information  presented  prior to the loan agreement  being signed 
was accurate. Mr S wasnt satisfied  and still felt he had been  cornered into accepting  the 
loan, so he brought his complaint to this service.  He said RateSetter should have made him 
aware before the pre-contract credit information was sent to him and prior to the hard search  
that the APR included  a large  arrangement fee. He felt that declining the offer would 
jeopardise an application with another lender given  the presence  of a hard search on his 
credit file. 
Our investigator said that RateSetter had clearly  outlined  the conditions  of the loan including 
the relevant fees and charges. Mr S maintained that while he understood the fee was 
included he was unhappy with how large  the fee was. He said he should have been told this 
prior to the hard search. He was concerned that he wanted  to pay his loan back  early  but 
because of the high fee, doing so would  not save him as much  money as he was hoping for. 
The investigator explained that many  lenders want a credit search prior to making an offer 
and they often dont give much  information  before the hard search takes  place. She also 
explained that the amount  quoted in APR terms was exactly the same  as that quoted  
subsequently when broken down into actual rate of borrowing  plus fees. She concluded that 
RateSetter hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr S did not agree  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN40550322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise Mr S is frustrated with the way 
the loan information was presented to him but Im afraid I will have to disappoint  him. After 
considering all the evidence, I wont be asking RateSetter to do anything further. 
Mr S has accepted that the interest quote  he received of 9.9% APR would include a fee but 
that he didnt know how large the fee was. He said he was happy to pay a small fee but he 
wanted to know  before the hard search  how much  the fee was. It does appear to me Mr S 
made an assumption about  the loan fee. Ive seen no evidence to suggest what  the fee 
might be, either small or large, prior to the pre-contract credit information.  And the loan Mr S 
wanted to take out was significant.  So its not clear to me on what basis  Mr S would assume 
that the fee on a loan of £35,000 would necessarily be small.  
Mr S has said that when he was given  the pre-contract credit information,  a full hard search 
was done on his credit file and at that point he knew it was too late to back  down although  he 
wanted to. He said prior to the pre-contract he was informed  the loan would be 9.9%  APR.  
While I do agree that a hard search would have been done  prior to the pre-contract Im afraid  
I cant agree  that it was too late for Mr S to withdraw. RateSetter is entitled to check  Mr Ss 
eligibility for a loan and whether it would likely be affordable. At that point Mr S was not 
contractually obliged  to proceed so could withdraw from his application.  I accept that a hard 
search is visible on a credit file but unfortunately, as Mr S is aware,  that is a usual 
consequence of applying for credit.
Mr S has said he wanted to know what the fee was. He also said RateSetter  should have 
made him aware before  the pre-contract was sent to him and prior to a hard search  being  
done how much it was. He has questioned how he was supposed to know about it. Mr S also 
said Ratesetter was not clear and hasnt acted  appropriately in the way information was 
made available to him. I do understand Mr Ss frustration that the fees were much  higher 
than he anticipated.  And I can see why this must  be a worry for him. But the overall cost of 
the loan was correct and the amount indicated through the initial  APR quote matches the 
information on the pre-contract. And Im afraid  I dont agree that RateSetter  has acted 
improperly.
Customers wanting to borrow  from RateSetter are expected to apply online as Mr S did. On 
the website there is a Help tab which details how to contact RateSetters customer  
services. It invites customers  to get in contact  if they need  help and provides  both telephone  
and email addresses. Im satisfied Mr S could have contacted customer  services in order to 
ask it to give him details  of the loan fee.
Also under the Help tab there is a Frequently Asked Questions section. Regarding  a 
question about  fees it says:
When you apply for a loan, we will tell you all the fees which  apply. In addition to the 
loan and the interest, you will be charged  the administration fee and the Credit Rate  
fee. The fees payable will be dependent  on how much you would like to borrow, the 
repayment term and your personal  credit profile.  There is nothing  to pay up front, all 
the fees are spread out over the monthly  repayments and are included in the total 
amount repayable.
Ref: DRN40550323The loan fee allows us to cover our costs. This allows us to create, maintain and 
service your accounts throughout your journey  with us. The loan fee is built into the 
APR (Annual Percentage Rate) along with your fixed annual  interest  therefore  there  
are no hidden charges.  Please note - the loan fee is non-refundable if you settle  your 
agreement early. The only time this is not chargeable is if you withdraw  from your 
credit agreement within 14 days.
Im satisfied this makes clear  that the fee is dependent on a number of variables  and that 
this information  was readily  available to Mr S on the website. It also doesnt mislead 
customers into thinking the fee is minimal or low. Im satisfied this explanation was clear.  
Mr S has said he felt that declining the offer would jeopardise an application with another 
lender given the hard search on his credit file. And he felt he had no choice but to accept. I 
agree with Mr S that a hard search may have an impact on his credit rating. But as I dont 
believe RateSetter has done anything wrong I cant hold it responsible  for any impact the 
hard search  may have. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4055032