K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his section 75 claim when  he 
complained about a radiator he purchased  from a retailer using his Nationwide  credit card.
background
In October  2017 Mr B purchased a radiator and paid with his Nationwide credit card. The 
radiator cost £482.40 plus VAT.
The radiator was inspected on delivery  and then stored in its packaging until April 2018 
whilst Mr B was completing the renovation of his bathroom. When  Mr B unpacked the 
radiator he discovered  marks/scratches which he wasnt happy with.
Mr B contacted the retailer  and requested a replacement. The retailer said that because  of 
the amount of time that had elapsed since delivery  it wasnt able to issue a refund or 
replacement.
Mr B complained to Nationwide under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 seeking  a 
refund.
Nationwide rejected Mr Bs claim. It said the retailers terms and conditions  provided clear 
timescales for faulty items to be returned. It also said that when Mr B inspected  the goods on 
delivery he had been  satisfied. Nationwide  said it hadnt been  able to establish a breach of 
contract and was therefore unable to uphold a section 75 claim.
Mr B wasnt  happy with Nationwides response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  hadnt  been a breach of contract  
and that Nationwide had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the retailer was subject  to the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) 
and that because it had refused to replace the faulty radiator it was in breach of the CRA 
which (he said) gave him a remedy against  Nationwide under section 75.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act requires a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS). 
Mr B paid for the radiator using his Nationwide  credit card so Im satisfied there is a DCS 
agreement. This means Mr B has a like claim against Nationwide  as he does against the 
retailer for a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. 
Mr B says that under the CRA 2015 the retailer is obliged to supply a radiator which is of 
satisfactory quality. He says that because the retailer has refused to replace the radiator, it is 
in breach of the CRA 2015. It is on this basis that he brings  his section 75 claim.
I dont agree with Mr Bs interpretation. The CRA 2015 gives Mr B a right of action as against 
the retailer. This isnt something which this service can look at, because we can only 
investigate complaints which involve business providing financial devices. In order  to pursue 
Ref: DRN40922502his rights under the CRA 2015, Mr B may wish to approach The Furniture  Ombudsman  or 
pursue a claim in the civil courts.
Ive considered whether Mr Bs section 75 claim  has been dealt with fairly by Nationwide.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes a consumer to go ahead  with 
a contract. Theres no information to suggest that the radiator was misrepresented to Mr B 
by the retailer.
A breach of contract  is where the supplier  fails to do what the contract says it must.
The contractual obligation on the retailer is to supply the items purchased.  The CRA 2015 
implies terms  into every  contract for the sale of goods or services as to satisfactory quality 
and fitness for purpose. In Mr Bs case, theres no information to suggest that the radiator 
isnt functioning  as intended.  In other  words,  it isnt faulty or affected by a manufacturing  
defect.
In terms of satisfactory quality, Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about the marks 
on the radiator.  But the difficulty here is that Mr B inspected  the radiator on delivery  and 
didnt report any issues. The retailers terms and conditions require damaged  items  to be 
reported within 60 days. I appreciate that Mr B discovered the marks several months later 
when the radiator came to be fitted.  However, I cant be certain that the marks were  present 
on delivery, because  Mr B didnt report any issues.
Im unable to conclude, based  on the available evidence, that there has been  a breach of 
contract. Because  of this, Im unable to say that Nationwide  acted unfairly in rejecting the 
section 75 claim. So I wont  be asking Nationwide to refund the cost of the radiator. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4092250