K822xcomplaint
Mrs B and Mr B are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  refunded  charges 
 plus interest  on one of their secured loan accounts but didnt carry out the same  
remediation exercise  on the other. Theyve also asked about the interest rate thats being 
charged on the loans.
background
Mrs B and Mr B have two secured loan accounts with Halifax.  The loan agreements  show:
The first was a loan of £10,000, taken out in 2000 to be repaid by 276 monthly 
payments of £75.99 (variable).  It was noted the APR was 8.4% and the monthly interest 
rate was 0.623%,  with an explanation  that could be varied  as long as Halifax  gave at 
least seven days  written  notice.
The second was also a loan of £10,000,  taken out in 2006  to be repaid by 204 monthly 
payments of £90.25 (variable).  It was noted the APR was 7.7% and the monthly interest 
rate was 0.612%,  with an explanation  that the interest rate is variable.
On 24 November 2017 Halifax wrote to Mrs B and Mr B to say it had refunded £1,771.84 to 
the 2006 loan account. It explained this was because it didnt send a Notice of Arrears when 
it was required to according to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which  regulated the loan. This 
meant it shouldnt have charged interest or any default sums until a correcting Notice  of 
Arrears had been received by Mrs B and Mr B.
Mrs B and Mr B complained that they hadnt received a similar refund on their 2000 loan 
account. Halifax rejected  the complaint, saying there  hadnt  been a breach of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 on that loan account hence  no refund was due. However as a gesture of 
goodwill it refunded  £190 of fees plus £60.03 interest on that account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she felt Halifax  had done enough to put 
things right. Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  
Ive not considered it but because I dont  think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the 
right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered.
In November 2017, Halifax contacted Mrs B and Mr B to say it realised it had made  a 
mistake because it had failed to send the Notice of Arrears as it was required  to for their 
2006 loan account. This meant  it had charged  some  fees and interest it wasnt  entitled to. As 
Ref: DRN48707142compensation for this it refunded the fees and interest to the account.  So I find that Halifax  
has already compensated Mrs B and Mr B for the error it made on their 2006 loan account.
Halifax has provided copies of the transaction  history for the 2000 loan account and details 
of the remediation exercise it carried  out. Im satisfied refunds were  only due on accounts 
that were more than two months in arrears.  And Im also satisfied  having  reviewed the 
transaction history  of the 2000 loan account   that it never went more than two months in 
arrears, and so was unaffected by the issue. This means  Halifax  didnt need to make any 
refund on the 2000 loan account.
I understand Mrs B and Mr B would like to see copies of the two loan agreements.  Ive asked 
our investigator to send  copies of these to Mrs B and Mr B separately so they should receive 
these shortly. To explain,  both loans  have a variable rate of interest  but theyre not linked  to 
the Bank of England base  rate and instead can be set at whatever level Halifax chooses. Ive 
looked at the paperwork  and I cant see any reference to the variable rate being linked to the 
Bank of England  base rate. Some lenders chose a margin above  the Bank of England  base 
rate as a benchmark for their variable rate but thats not to say Halifax has done  anything 
wrong in not doing so. As there was no link between the Bank  of England  base rate and the 
loan variable rates, I cant see that Halifax has acted inappropriately in not varying the loan 
interest rates in that way.
We can only consider issues that Halifax has already  looked  into and had the chance to 
respond to. So we can only consider the issues Halifax has dealt with in its final response 
letter. If Mrs B and Mr B still have any other concerns then theyll need to raise  those  with 
Halifax directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mrs B and Mr B to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 March 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4870714