K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a decision by Clydesdale Bank Plc to appoint Law of Property Act 
(LPA) Receivers to pursue a debt Mr and Mrs W owed it. Theyre unhappy that the LPA 
Receivers took possession, and then sold, part of their property title, without first obtaining a 
court order.  They  believe  that taking possession  without  a court order is illegal, and that 
Clydesdale had no right under  the loan contract  to appoint LPA Receivers.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  to any 
great extent  here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus  on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something,  it wont be because  Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt  think  it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs W when my 
decision is published.
Mr and Mrs W borrowed £140,000 in 2010  on a five-year term. The loan was secured by a 
charge on land; their family home partly occupies  this land. The agreement  they signed  
(which Ill refer to hereon as The First Agreement) included a declaration  to the effect that 
the agreement  gave them no protection or remedies under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(CCA). 
In 2011, Clydesdale rescheduled the debt over a seven-year term under another agreement  
(which Ill refer to hereon as The Second Agreement). The Second Agreement included a 
clause to the effect that under the CCA, Clydesdale could not enforce the agreement  without 
getting a court order. 
In 2012, Clydesdale refused a request from Mr and Mrs W to switch the debt to a 25-year 
term. In 2013, they stopped making  payments  to the loan; they say they received a letter 
saying they didnt have to pay any more.  In 2017, Mr and Mrs W brought  a complaint to us 
after Clydesdale told them it expected the loan to be repaid. That complaint was decided  by 
a fellow  ombudsman; I summarise her main findings  as follows:
Clydesdale hadnt promised to provide a 25-year loan;
The letter saying the loan had been closed  was an administrative error and it wasnt  
reasonable of Mr and Mrs W to think they could stop paying;
By stopping paying, Mr and Mrs W were in breach  of the facility,  and Clydesdale  was 
entitled to recover  the debt, and appointing  LPA Receivers wasnt an unreasonable 
means of doing so, provided the facility allowed that; and
It wasnt the role of this service  to decide  if a debt is enforceable  or not.
Clydesdale did then appoint LPA Receivers;  the Receivers, whom Ill refer to here as G, sold 
off the land charged as security for the loan,  and the debt was cleared in full. It seems  the 
parcel of land that G disposed of was part of the title over Mr and Mrs Ws own home, and 
this has caused  friction between them and the buyers. 
Ref: DRN47140782The gist of Mr and Mrs Ws new complaint is that The Second Agreement  didnt give 
Clydesdale power  to appoint LPA Receivers,  and by doing so, Clydesdale  circumvented the 
legal requirement  for a court  order  before a lender  can take possession of mortgaged  
property.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr and Mrs W asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
Mr and Mrs Ws responses to the investigators  view are many and varied, but it seems  to 
me that theres has been a degree of remit  creep in the exchanges that have taken place. 
Mr and Mrs W have  focussed a great deal of their argument on challenging the legitimacy of 
the original lending, disputing that they had breached  their payment obligations and, by 
extension, Clydesdales decision to pursue them for the debt. 
To be clear, I wont be making any findings  on these matters; I remind Mr and Mrs W that my 
fellow ombudsman decided in 2017 that Mr and Mrs W were  in breach of their obligations 
and Clydesdale  could  take reasonable action to recover the debt including appointing LPA 
Receivers, provided it had the power  to do so. 
Our investigator made  it clear to Mr and Mrs W at the outset that all we could consider in this 
complaint was whether Clydesdale had the power  to appoint the LPA Receivers.  He also 
explained why we wouldnt be able to consider Gs actions in taking possession of and 
selling the security,  or the wider impact that had on Mr and Mrs W. Thats  because  G, once  
appointed, acted for Mr and Mrs W rather than for Clydesdale.
Taking all of the above into consideration, this complaint is simpler than it has been made to 
look. Its not generally disputed that The First Agreement  gave Clydesdale power  to appoint 
LPA Receivers. What  remains  in dispute, and all there is for me to decide,  is whether The 
Second Agreement took that power away from Clydesdale. 
Mr and Mrs W argue that by virtue of a jurisdiction decision in the 2017 complaint, weve 
already decided the Second  Agreement is regulated by the CCA. Thats not actually what 
happened there; the ombudsman in question was opining informally on Mr and Mrs Ws 
Ref: DRN47140783eligibility to bring that complaint, and in doing so concluded that they met the definition of a 
consumer, as set out in our rules and the CCA. (my italics)
At the time of the Second Agreement, the CCA, at section 16 (6) (6C), exempted an 
agreement from regulation under the CCA if the lending was secured by a land mortgage  
and entering into the agreement  as lender was a regulated activity for the purposes of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). 
Mr and Mrs Ws lending  came under that exemption  because it was secured by a charge 
over land on which their home  was partly located.  The Financial Services  and Markets Order  
2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 identifies lending  secured by a charge over land 
where at least 40% of the land is used  for residential  purposes as a regulated  activity  
pursuant to the FSMA. That points strongly  towards  The Second Agreement  being regulated 
under the FSMA,  not the CCA. 
In summary,  The First Agreement gave Clydesdale the power to appoint  LPA Receivers; and 
The Second Agreement, if exempt from CCA  regulation and subject to FSMA regulation 
instead, wont have  removed that power. 
But I accept theres room for doubt in that finding,  depending on exactly what proportion  of 
Mr and Mrs Ws home lies in the land that was sold. So Ive gone on to consider how things 
might have turned out differently if Clydesdale had done what Mr and Mrs W argue the law 
required it to do; that is, apply  for a possession  order in court.  Just as the investigator did, I 
find it more likely than not that a possession  order would  have  been  granted, paving the way 
for the land to be sold, just as it was by G. Indeed,  its hard to see how any other outcome 
might have prevailed; after all, nothing had been paid since 2013.
In the 2017 complaint, my fellow  ombudsman  has already decided that Mr and Mrs W were 
in breach of their payment  obligations such that Clydesdale could take reasonable recovery  
action. She has also already decided that reasonable recovery action could include, if 
permitted, the appointment of LPA Receivers.  In the current complaint, I have now decided,  
for the reasons set out above,  that the appointment of LPA Receivers was something 
Clydesdale was in all likelihood permitted  to do. Even  if it were  not, I think  it more likely  that 
any court  proceedings taken as an alternative would have resulted in the same broad 
outcome.
When youre as close to a difficult situation  as Mr and Mrs W have been for so long here, its 
a natural subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual avenue with vigour.  But I 
have a different  remit. I have to be objective,  and impartial, and sometimes  that means 
stepping back from the fine detail and taking an overview. It also means  that Im not required 
to provide answers to every specific question that comes up, if I dont  consider  doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
Mr and Mrs W dont  have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont,  then neither they nor 
Clydesdale will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions  
a court  might impose, Mr and Mrs Ws right to take legal action against Clydesdale over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
Ref: DRN47140784my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, or make any order  or award  against  
Clydesdale Bank  Plc. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4714078