K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
personal loan in 1991. Mrs M, on behalf of herself and Mr M, says Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI. The policy covered Mr M only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why:
This policy was taken out in a meeting. As it was sold so long ago, neither Halifax  nor 
Mrs M have  been  able to provide paperwork from the time of sale.  And Mrs M hasnt 
been able to give me any significant detail about what was discussed during the meeting 
 but this is understandable considering the sale was nearly  30 years ago. She does say 
that herself and Mr M didnt know the PPI was optional. I have limited information  about 
the sale, so I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened on the balance  
of probability. 
I havent seen  sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So 
having considered all the submissions  I have received in this case, I think  its more likely 
that Halifax wouldve  made Mrs M was aware  that the PPI was optional and that they  
chose to take it, even  though Mrs M may not remember  that now, many years later.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why Mrs M cant  remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M (as the sole policy holder) so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for him and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   Mrs M says Mr M had 
other means of making his repayments  including that he couldve relied on her, as well 
as other  family. She also speaks about  her own employee benefits as being  substantial.  
But the PPI covered  Mr M only. And the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any other  
means he wouldve  had  and for up to 24 months if he lost his job or became too unwell 
to work. And having the policy  meant he wouldnt have to rely on his family   whose 
ability to help would depend on their own circumstances at any given time.  So I think Mr 
and Mrs M wouldve found  the PPI useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
So I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything Halifax has done wrong. 
Ref: DRN43350382Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said  including what she says about not 
understanding that if she cancelled  after 30 days and before the loan reached  full term, 
she only wouldve received a partial  rebate. But this policy was a monthly  regular 
premium policy,  it could  be cancelled  at any time without penalty, so it offered flexibility if 
things changed  or Mr and Mrs M, or they simply decided they no longer wanted  cover.  
So this point  doesnt change my decision.  
my final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4335038