K821x#15complaint
Ms B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Uncle Buck provided to Ms B between April 
2018 and August 2018. Ms Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 17/04/2018 21/05/2018 6 £300.00 £99.40
2 07/08/2018 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £120.25
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Bs complaint  and thought the loans  shouldnt  have been given. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN41244982I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans one and two wouldve shown 
that Ms B was having problems  managing her finances.
When Uncle Buck completed a credit check on Ms B at the time it approved  her for loan one, 
the information gathered showed that Ms B had opened up 28 accounts  in the last six 
months. By the time she applied for loan two, the credit check  showed that this number had 
been increased to 29. The credit checks also showed that Ms B was due to make significant  
repayments to other short-term loans at each time she borrowed from Uncle  Buck. 
I think that Uncle Buck shouldve realised from these searches  that Ms B was struggling 
financially, and that it was likely that further  borrowing wouldve been sustainable for her. So, 
it should not have given  her these loans.
So, Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint about  loans one and two Uncle  Buck should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms B paid on loans one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one and two from Ms Bs credit file;
If Ms B still owes Uncle Buck any of the principal balance she borrowed on her final loan 
Uncle Buck  should  remove all the interest  and charges  applied  to the outstanding balance.  
Uncle Buck  should  then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Ms B went to 
towards the principal.  But importantly, Uncle  Buck needs to make  sure that Ms B doesnt 
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
Ref: DRN41244983If after doing this Ms B hasnt repaid the principal  she borrowed Uncle Buck  can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Ms B has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple  interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Uncle Buck no longer owns this debt,  and it wants  to make a deduction  due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Ms B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124498