K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Homeserve Membership Limited mis-sold him a boiler insurance policy.
background
In 2015, Mr C took out a Gas Central Heating  Breakdown Cover policy underwritten by an 
insurance company.  Homeserve acted as the insurance broker.  At the time his boiler was 
almost ten years old. The insurance  company  dont  provide cover for boilers that are ten 
years old or older.
In 2018 Mr C had trouble  with his boiler.  The engineer said that it was beyond  economical 
repair and the required replacement parts were obsolete.
Mr C made  a claim for a replacement boiler.  Homeserve pointed  out that his policy contained 
clauses which said that if his boiler was more than seven years  old  or needed  parts which 
were obsolete  the insurer  wouldnt pay for a replacement but would provide a £200 
contribution towards  the cost of a new boiler.
Mr C complained to Homeserve. He said hed not been told about these clauses when he 
bought the policy and wasnt  aware of them. He also pointed out that Homeserve had been  
taking annual premiums  of £263  for a policy that would likely only provide benefits of £200  
(once).
Homeserve didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. They said the terms and conditions applying to 
the policy were supplied to him  and were  clear what would happen if a boiler of seven 
years plus was deemed beyond economical repair and/or required obsolete parts.
Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and thought 
on balance the policy had likely been  mis-sold. He said Homeserve  should  return  Mr Cs 
premiums (with interest).
Homeserve disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Homeserve sold the policy  to Mr C over the phone.  They say they cant  find the recording of 
the call. They have however, provided a script  which their sales  staff are required  to follow  
on each call.
At several points, the script requires the salesperson to emphasise  that theyre not offering 
the customer any advice  about the suitability of the policy for their needs. 
Its difficult to imagine  that all of these prompts were  missed in any one call, so I have  to 
assume Mr C was aware that he wasnt being  advised about the policys suitability and that 
he ought to consider the policys terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN48327712Towards the end of the script, the salesperson  is instructed to ask whether the customer  
wishes to proceed to set up the policy and to offer to send the terms and conditions  if they 
require further  details. 
Theres a 28-day cooling off period in which the customer can cancel the policy  if they wish 
to do so having considered the terms and conditions or having  had second  thoughts.
The terms and conditions  are clear that Homeserve will give a £200 contribution towards  the 
cost of a new boiler if a boiler older than 7 years  is found to be beyond economical repair or 
to have obsolete  parts.
Homeserve say their salesperson will have followed the script. And so Mr C would  have 
been aware he needed to read the terms and conditions. If he didnt - and proceeded to buy 
a policy  which was unsuitable for him - thats  his responsibility. They say they would have 
been very clear  that they werent advising him and that the onus  was on him to check 
whether the policy  suited  his needs.
We usually take the view that a business cant rely solely on a terms and conditions 
document to show that they acted  entirely  fairly and reasonably in selling a policy  to a 
customer - even when that sale doesnt  involve any advice or recommendation about the 
suitability of the policy.
If there are important conditions or exclusions  particularly where these  wouldnt be obvious 
to a customer, arent standard,  or restrict the cover on offer  wed usually expect the 
business to draw these  to the customers attention.
Homeserve appear  to share our view. The script they say would have been used to sell the 
policy to Mr C also has a section  entitled  Information  which requires the salesperson to 
describe the key points about  the policy to the customer.
Those key points include the following:
If your boiler  is under  7 years old and deemed  beyond  economical repair,  then well 
replace it. If the boiler is over 7 years old youll receive a £200 contribution towards  a 
new one.
So, Homeserve clearly  regard this as something  which should be made clear to the 
customer during the sales call  and not left for the customer to pick up from the terms and 
conditions document  alone.
If we had the call recording and it were clear  the script had been followed  and that Mr C 
had been advised about the condition applying to boilers over seven years old  I dont think 
there would be any doubt  that Homeserve had acted entirely fairly and reasonably towards  
Mr C and that hed chosen to buy the policy in full knowledge of this restriction.
In the absence of the call recording, I have to decide  whats  likely to have  happened  during 
that conversation. On balance, I think its unlikely Mr C was told about this particular policy  
provision. Ill explain  why.
First of all, Mr C says he wasnt  told about this policy term during the telephone 
conversation. I dont have  any reason to disbelieve  him. And whilst memories can fail after 
Ref: DRN48327713this amount of time (the sales call was in 2015), its difficult to see how Mr C might have 
missed such significant  information  at the time.
Mr Cs boiler is over seven years old. According  to the sales script, the age of the boiler has 
to be established  early on in the conversation with the customer. So, Mr C would have had 
fresh in his mind  what age his boiler was (almost 10 years old at the time).
If he had then been told very clearly about the restriction on boilers  over seven years old, its 
difficult to see why he would have bought the policy. As hes pointed out, this would amount 
to paying out £263  annually for a maximum one-off benefit of £200  at the point that his boiler  
failed and was beyond economical repair.
Of course,  I have to take into account  that during the time he had the policy, Mr C was 
covered for the cost of repairs if he had trouble with the boiler but it wasnt  beyond 
economical repair. 
But I also have to bear in mind  that any such repairs  which by definition  have to be 
economical - were likely  to be far less expensive than replacing  the boiler. Mr C says he took 
out the cover in case he had to replace his boiler   and its unlikely he would have 
considered the annual  premiums good  value if they only covered repairs and not 
replacement. 
Given the age of Mr Cs boiler, he would also likely have known that there was an increasing 
risk that any failure would result in his boiler  being deemed beyond economical  repair  
because the parts were no longer readily  available.
So, taking all of that into account, I think its most likely Mr C wouldnt have bought  the policy 
if he had in fact been  informed about  the restricted benefits for boilers over seven years old.
In summary,  Im satisfied  on balance  that Mr C bought a policy  which wasnt  suitable for his 
needs because  he wasnt informed in the sales call about the relevant restrictions.  And that 
being the case, Im satisfied Homeserve didnt  treat him fairly or reasonably when they sold 
the policy to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Homeserve Membership Limited should return the premiums Mr C paid for his policy since  
its inception in 2015. And they should pay him interest at 8% simple from the date the 
premiums were paid to the date they repay them to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019..
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4832771