K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited had given  him 
the wrong advice  to transfer valuable pension benefits and that the redress hed previously 
been paid was inadequate.
background
In 2000 Sun Life looked at the advice Mr M had been historically  given to transfer  benefits  
out of his occupational  pension scheme (OPS).  They did this as part of the industry-wide 
review arising from the wide spread mis-selling of pension plans. Sun Life made Mr M an 
offer following  their review, which he went on to accept.  The offer was updated several 
weeks later and Sun Life went on to set up a redress plan for Mr M. This exercise  was 
completed by January  2001.
In 2018 Mr M complained  as he felt the financial settlement made  in 2000 had been 
inadequate and unfair. And he has explained  to us that more recently he has spoken to ex-
colleagues in the OPS  and their current benefits  are substantially greater than his.
Sun Life rejected  Mr Ms complaint. They set out what had happened at the time of the 
review. They  included  some information on the way financial  loss was calculated,  as 
determined by the regulator at the time. They highlighted that under the guidelines the 
calculations used aimed to give the same value of retirement and death benefits as Mr M 
would have got from his original scheme.  But that in practice the actual  benefits  would 
probably turn out differently and a comparison would only be known when Mr M came to 
retire or if he died in advance  of that date.  
Sun Life also set out that their original settlement letter  had explained the value of his 
personal pension  plan would depend on performance, and this wasnt  guaranteed. Overall  
Sun Life said they couldnt  compare Mr Ms position  with that of anyone else;  nor were they 
able to reopen this exercise. Mr M referred  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator explained our usual approach meant that he didnt think Mr Ms complaint 
ought to be upheld. This was because the regulator  had intended the pension review  
exercise to be final when it came to loss assessments and any payment. 
He also explained  to Sun Life why he didnt think Mr M was too late to refer his complaint to 
this service. It doesnt appear Sun Life have returned to this issue.
Our adjudicator explained that it is known  that a number of the assumptions  used  for 
calculations in the pension review havent  been borne out. But this didnt  mean they were 
wrong at the time or that this was something wed look at any further. Mr M was provided  
with links to the information we have  available on our website on the pension review and our 
usual approach.
Mr M wasnt happy as he felt the pension review methodology had be inadequate  and that 
this has led to a substantial number of people  who have  ended up losing  out.
The adjudicator acknowledged that a number of people have felt disappointed  when they 
have now come to look at their plans.  But highlighted  that the methodology had been set by 
the then regulator and businesses had been  required to follow  this. The assumptions were  
deemed to be reasonable at the time to assess prospective,  future  loss. 
Ref: DRN47833182The adjudicator also explained a little more about how Mr M could have the original 
calculations checked;  but that there  was nothing apparent to suggest the regulators 
approach hadnt  been  followed.
Mr M has expressed his concern at his belief this situation requires wider attention. He 
continues to feel he has been under compensated and is disappointed this service  hasnt  
considered the matter  further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
I know this isnt what Mr M will want to hear and I cant add much to what  the adjudicator  has 
already accurately explained. Overall, I think Sun Life did what they were required to do 
under the pension review. This doesnt mean Mr M hasnt now found himself to have  less 
pension benefits  than he might have done  if hed remained  in his OPS;  but it does mean I 
am unable  to uphold his complaint as Sun Life have already  done  what they were required to 
do.
The regulator at the time set out how businesses were to conduct the review exercise; 
including how prospective loss calculations were to be assessed. This was something Sun 
Life were required to do for Mr M; and Ive seen nothing that suggests to me they didnt 
follow the regulators guidance on review. Ive seen  that when it came to paying Mr M the 
settlement in 2000, Sun Life updated  the figure for the time of settlement. 
When the regulator set up the review, a business was only required to carry out the review 
once, based on the assumptions  the regulator  told it to use at the time (such  as on future 
investment returns).  The fact that these  assumptions may not have been achieved  in the 
years that followed is not grounds to redo the calculation. And as it appears  likely for Mr M, 
that can be a cause of further loss.
Ive seen Mr M feels the original methodology and guidance provided  by the regulator was 
flawed, but this isnt a matter this service is able to consider.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.  
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 9 January  
2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4783318