K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1998.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case.
At this point, I think that it may be useful  for me to highlight that where evidence is 
incomplete or matters  are in dispute  as they are here  I look at what is more likely  than 
not to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances at 
the time.  With this in mind and having thought  about everything Ive seen here,  Im not 
upholding Miss Cs complaint. Id like to explain  why in a little more  detail.
The documentation  Ive seen from the time of Miss Cs mortgage  application  shows that 
Miss C ticked  the Yes box to request PPI and then separately signed the section of the 
mortgage application form to confirm this. Miss C also signed  a separate MPPI application 
form which confirmed the monthly benefit she wanted. So overall and having carefully 
thought about everything,  I think that its more likely than not Miss C chose  to take the MPPI 
knowing that she didnt  have to have it if she didnt  want to. 
Halifax recommended  the MPPI. This means that it needed to make sure it was right for 
Miss C. Having  thought  about what Ive been  told about  Miss Cs circumstances at the time,  I 
dont think that the MPPI was unsuitable for Miss C. 
Miss C mightve been entitled to some sick pay if shed been off sick from work. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and potentially for much  longer. I also think that 
the policy couldve provided a useful safety  net if Miss C was to have lost her job suddenly. 
So in short, I think it wouldve been  a difficult time if Miss C were to have been off sick or lost 
her job  even with her other arrangements in place  and I think  the MPPI would have been 
of help given it was protecting the payments  to her mortgage. And I think the MPPI was 
suitable for her.
Ive also thought about whether Miss C was given all the information she shouldve been. Im 
open to the possibility that she wasnt. For example, I think its likely that she couldve and 
shouldve been  given clearer information  on things such as the cost of the policy  and the 
main exclusions. But Ive not seen  anything to suggest that Miss C couldnt afford the 
premiums. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss C wouldve been affected by the 
main limitations  she was eligible for the policy, was working and it seems as though she 
was in relatively good health.
Overall I think  its more  likely than not that if Halifax had given Miss C clearer or better  
information, it wouldnt have made  a difference  to her decision to take out MPPI. I think  
better information wouldve simply shown Miss C that the MPPI was right for her, for the 
Ref: DRN42580042reasons Ive already explained  above.  So I think that Miss C wouldve still taken out the 
MPPI even  if she had been  provided with all the information he shouldve been.
Id like to reassure Miss C that Ive thought  about  everything she has told us. But overall I 
dont think the MPPI  was mis-sold to her. So Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4258004