K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  shes  being  pursued for a shortfall following the voluntary termination of 
her agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
background
In September  2014 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered  into a finance agreement  
with VWFS.
In December 2017 Miss B asked the supplying dealer about voluntary termination. The 
dealer contacted VFWS who advised  that Miss B would need to make 7 more  monthly  
repayments before her shortfall would be zero.
Miss B asked the dealer  about voluntary termination  again  in April 2018. She queried the 
figures. The dealer  contacted VWFS who advised  that Miss B would need to make a further 
4 repayments  to clear  the shortfall.
Miss B contacted VWFS  directly in April 2018.  She asked for an explanation of how the 
shortfall figure had been calculated. The advisor asked Miss B to send her request to 
voluntary terminate in an email.
Miss B contacted VWFS  the following day and asked again  about the shortfall.  The advisor 
told Miss B that her shortfall  was zero and that she could hand her car back as she had paid 
over 50% of the total amount payable.
Miss B made arrangements  to hand the car back and cancelled  her direct debit. She 
subsequently received  a debt letter from VWFS saying shed missed payments. Miss B 
contacted VWFS and explained that shed  handed  the car back. VWFS said it would 
investigate and call her back. Miss B says she never received a call back  but received a 
further debt letter.
At this time Miss B was trying to re-mortgage her house. Her application was declined twice  
and she discovered  that the late payments had been recorded on her credit file.
Miss B complained to VWFS. It acknowledged  that it had provided her with incorrect 
information about the shortfall and offered to reduce it from £820.21 to £546.81. VWFS said 
it would  remove  the adverse  entries from Miss Bs credit file as soon as she paid the 
balance. Miss B wasnt happy with VWFSs  response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She didnt  think that Miss B wouldve  terminated her 
agreement if she hadnt relied on the information  about the shortfall. The investigator said 
VWFS should write off the balance.
VWFS didnt  agree. It said Miss B had been  advised  on three occasions that there was a 
shortfall and shouldve been  aware that she hadnt  paid it irrespective of the incorrect  
advice,. VWFS didnt think it was proportionate  to write off the entire debt for one error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46398402Ive listened to the call between Miss B and VWFS on 18 April 2018. Miss Bs partner asked 
about the shortfall more than once and was told it was zero. Im satisfied that Miss B relied 
on this information  because she voluntary terminated her agreement straight afterwards. 
Prior to this call, all of Miss Bs actions  were consistent with a consumer who wanted  to wait 
until the 50% mark before voluntary terminating.
VWFS has said that correct information about  the shortfall was provided  to Miss B prior to 
this. I can see that on previous occasions the dealership contacted VWFS on Miss Bs 
behalf. I cant be certain of what information the dealership  passed  on to Miss B, but its clear  
from the number  of calls that were  made  that Miss B wasnt  happy with the information 
provided and was querying  the figures. So I think that when VWFS told Miss B that the 
shortfall was zero,  she wouldve  accepted  this as being correct.
Ive taken VWFSs comments about proportionality  into account, but Im not persuaded that 
looking at the number of times that correct  advice was provided and comparing it to the 
number of times incorrect advice was provided  is the correct  approach.  In any event, and as 
Ive said, I cant be certain  of what information  was provided  to  the dealership when it called 
on Miss Bs behalf. There may have only been one instance of incorrect advice but Miss B 
relied on it and acted to her detriment.
Miss Bs credit file has been negatively impacted by this. Shes  explained that shes been  
unable to re-mortgage her house  to extend  it to accommodate her new baby, which  has 
caused her distress and inconvenience. Taking everything into account I think its fair and 
reasonable to write off the balance.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must:
Write  off the outstanding debt
Remove any adverse  entries from Miss Bs credit file
Pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4639840