K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the poor customer service he received from American  Express 
Services Europe Limited when he asked it to refund his annual credit card fee and cancel 
the card. Mr D is represented  in his complaint by Mrs D who holds a Power of Attorney with 
respect to Mr Ds financial affairs.
background
Mr D became seriously ill in February  2018 and was admitted to hospital.  Mrs D applied  for 
Power of Attorney (PoA).
Mr and Mrs D both contacted AMEX in March asking it to close  Mr Ds credit card account 
and refund the annual fee, which AMEX  had collected in February. AMEX was unable to do 
this until it had the certified identity documents it needed for both Mr and Mrs D and a copy 
of the PoA. It had the necessary documents by the end of June and refunded the full annual 
fee of £450 to Mr Ds AMEX card account  in July. 
Mrs D complained that the whole process  had taken far too long, that she had received poor 
customer service,  and that Mr D hadnt  in fact received the fee refund until the end of 
September.
AMEX didnt agree that it had made any errors  in dealing with Mr Ds account closure and 
fee refund  request. But it agreed  that its staff had not met the expected standards in 
responding to Mrs D various  enquiries. It paid Mrs D £50 in recognition  of these service 
shortcomings. 
Mr and Mrs D remained of the view that the whole process had been  badly handled  by 
AMEX from the start and that this had added to the pressures  and stress  in their lives at 
what was already a very stressful time.
Our investigator looked in detail at AMEXs  internal  procedures for dealing  with account 
closures and the processing of PoAs.  She stated  that it wasnt  for this service to comment on 
financial organisations internal procedures as that was a matter  for them.  But we could look 
at how they had implemented their procedures  in practice. And having  done so she didnt 
consider that AMEX  had been  at fault here.
She noted that once AMEX had received all of the certified documentation it needed, it acted 
promptly in refunding Mr Ds annual card fee to his AMEX account in July. Mrs D said that 
she had initially asked  for the refund  to be made  to the account  from which  it had originated, 
but that this didnt happen until September after she had contacted AMEX again.  Our 
investigator said that it was AMEXs  standard practice to refund fees to the AMEX account, 
which is why it had done so here. There was a comment to this effect  on each of Mr Ds 
following three statements. These also made clear that Mr D should  contact AMEX to 
provide further  instructions.
With respect to compensation, the adjudicator explained that as it was Mr D who was the 
AMEX customer, she could only consider the impact  of the events on him in determining  a 
fair compensatory  award. And having  done  so she was of the view that the £50 already paid 
to Mrs D was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN45291452Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied and Mrs D explained again why she considered AMEX 
to have been particularly unhelpful and obstructive in dealing with the account closure, and 
she re-iterated her opinion that this should  have been processed much more  speedily.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First let me say how sorry I am to hear about  Mr Ds poor health, and about the subsequent 
difficulties both Mr and Mrs D have had in trying to reorganise their lives and finances as a 
result. And I understand how any additional stress resulting from less than straightforward 
dealings with financial institutions will have added  to what was already  a very stressful 
situation for them both.
Mr D was admitted to hospital  in February 2018, which was unfortunately also the renewal 
month for his AMEX credit  card. Mrs D says that Mr D had been intending to cancel the card,  
but as he hadnt done so AMEX automatically collected the renewal fee on the due date.
Mr and Mrs D both contacted AMEX in March to explain the situation. Mr D authorised  Mrs D 
to act on his behalf until such time as the PoA theyd applied for had been  granted. Mrs D 
asked AMEX to close  Mr Ds account and refund the fee. But unfortunately this process 
didnt prove  to be as simple and quick as Mr and Mrs D had hoped.
In circumstances  such as these, where  a PoA has been applied for potentially  giving the 
applicant control  over the financial affairs  of a banks customer, all banks will have in place 
procedures to verify that the people concerned are who they say they are and that they have 
the necessary  authority to make the decisions being  requested.
As expected  therefore AMEX has its own procedures, which  it is entitled  to determine to 
meet its own needs. And as a service  we have no oversight over these, nor can we interfere 
with them  or make recommendations. Our role here is to assess  whether AMEX has 
properly applied its procedures and whether it has done so in a timely manner. 
AMEX required certified  identity documents for both Mr and Mrs D and a copy of the PoA.  It 
set out its requirements  in a letter to Mrs D of 30 April following her contact in March.  
Unfortunately, some  of the documents Mrs D then supplied had not been certified and they 
were therefore unacceptable. And it also took some time to secure the PoA. 
Mrs D has further objected  to the fact that AMEXs requirements were in some respects 
different from the Office  of the Public Guardian and created more  work for her and further 
delay.
Im afraid it is not for me to comment on the requirements of the Office of the Public 
Guardian  save to say that it has no regulatory  responsibility for financial institutions who, as 
I have already said, determine their own procedures for dealing  with circumstances such as 
these.
AMEX had finally received all of the documentation  it required  by the end of June and 
refunded the full membership fee to Mr Ds account.  Its terms and conditions  would have 
allowed it to refund less than the full fee, as by then it was part way through  the membership 
year and Mr Ds May and June statements showed some usage  of his card. But I consider 
Ref: DRN45291453that less than a full refund would  have been a particularly harsh decision in these 
circumstances.
The refund was credited to Mr Ds card account  and his subsequent statements made that 
clear. These also stated that he should contact AMEX with instructions for further 
processing. But Mrs D was unaware of this as she had initially asked for the refund to be 
credited to the account from which it had originated. AMEX has said that was not the way its 
system operated. I also note that Mrs Ds request pre-dated the granting of the PoA and so 
might reasonably not have been recorded by AMEX at the time of receipt. It was therefore 
not until Mrs D had contacted AMEX again in September about the refund that it was re-
credited to Mr Ds originating account. 
I have considered whether AMEX has been  at fault here in the way it processed Mr Ds 
account closure and fee refund requests. And having looked at all of detail Im afraid  that I 
cannot reasonably  conclude  that it has. It has implemented  its internal procedures for 
dealing with such requests and it has not in my opinion introduced any unacceptable  delay.  
Mrs D has asked for compensation for the extra work she considers shes  had to do to meet 
AMEXs requirements, for the delay in processing Mr Ds requests, for the costs shes 
incurred in repeatedly having to contact AMEX and for the poor quality of service she 
received from some  AMEX staff.
But Mrs D is not an AMEX  customer and in this instance is therefore not an eligible 
complainant to this service in her own right. Im afraid that I therefore cannot consider her 
claim for compensation. But I can consider any claim Mr D may have   as presented on his 
behalf by Mrs D  and I have done  so. 
Having found  that AMEX  dealt with his request in accordance with its procedures  and within  
an acceptable timescale, Im unable  to conclude that Mr D has suffered any financial loss. I 
note that he has also been reimbursed his full annual card fee when,  strictly speaking,  
AMEXs terms  and conditions didnt require it to do so. And with respect  to any distress  and 
inconvenience resulting from what took place, my view is that as Mr D was not dealing  with 
this matter himself I am not persuaded that he has a supportable claim for compensation.
I know that Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid that on the available  
evidence I cannot  reasonably uphold  her complaint on behalf of Mr D.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4529145