K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly retained the premium he 
paid after it avoided his commercial motor insurance policy.  
background
In 2018 Mr T took out a Tradewise commercial  motor  insurance policy  through a broker.  He 
paid a deposit, of about £750, towards the full policy premum. Shortly after Tradewise 
avoided the policy (treating it as though it had never existed). It said Mr T had failed to 
disclose some claims. It said if he had given  the correct information  it wouldnt have offered 
him cover. It didnt return  his deposit.
Mr T complained to Tradewise. He wanted his deposit back.  Tradewise responded that the 
policy had been  fairly avoided.  It didnt  return the deposit. Mr T came to this service.
Our Investigator  said Tradewise had unfairly  avoided the policy. She felt Mr T had made  a 
fair presentation of the risk in the initial sales call. So she said Tradewise should refund the 
deposit and remove  any record  of the policy being  avoided. Tradewise didnt accept her 
assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Tradewise will need to 
repay Mr T any premium he paid, including his deposit.
Ive already explained my thoughts on this complaint to Mr T and Tradewise. I said 
Tradewises decision to avoid the policy was fair. He failed to make a fair presentation  he 
ought to have known to disclose all three of the claims. I said Im satisfied, if he had 
disclosed them, Tradewise wouldnt have offered cover.  I said this meant there  had been a 
qualifying breach - so it was fair for Tradewise, in line with the Insurance Act 2015 (IA 15), to 
avoid his policy. As both Mr T and Tradewise seemed to accept  that I havent considered it 
in detail here. 
But Tradewise didnt  accept my view that as it hadnt  shown  the non-disclosure to be 
deliberate or reckless  it couldnt  fairly retain  Mr Ts deposit.  
IA 15 allows an insurer to retain  any premiums  paid if the qualifying breach was deliberate  or 
reckless. If it wasnt then the premiums must be returned. A qualifying breach is deliberate or 
reckless if the insured   
a.knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or
b.did not care whether  or not it was in breach of that duty.
Its for the insurer to show that a breach is deliberate or reckless.  Tradewise hasnt  done  
that.
Tradewise hasnt shown  Mr T knew he should  disclose the other claims. Ive listened  to 
phone calls between him and Tradewise. Ive seen  emails  from him. They  persuade me the 
non-disclosure happened due to his lack of understanding about what he was required to 
declare as a claim. 
Ref: DRN41875342Tradewise also hasnt  shown Mr T didnt care whether or not there was a breach. It says Mr 
T should  have done more to find out about  what claims he needed to declare. I agree he 
should have. But Tradewise hasnt shown his failure  to do so was reckless. Instead  it seems 
he didnt know there had been pay outs on the other two claims  so he didnt  consider  them  
to be claims  it wasnt that he didnt care whether  or not they were claims.
So Tradewise will need to return any premium,  including  the deposit.  As it incorrectly  
retained what he paid it caused him to be unfairly without the money. So it will need to pay 
him simple interest at 8% from the date of the avoidance to the date of settlement. 
Tradewise will also need to amend relevant records to show  the avoidance as neither 
deliberate or reckless.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited will need to refund any 
premium Mr T paid.  It will need  to simple interest at 8% from the date of the avoidance to the 
date of settlement*. Tradewise will also need to amend  relevant records to show  the 
avoidance as neither  deliberate or reckless. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs requires  Tradewise  Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from this interest. Tradewise  
Insurance Company  Limited must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN4187534