K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Studio Retail Limited  sent emails to her old email address after she 
had informed it of her new email address. She says Studio paid her £50 compensation but 
she doesnt think this is enough and wants her outstanding balance  written off.
 
background
Mrs M says that she contacted Studio in October 2017 to update her email  address. She 
received confirmation  this had happened. However following this emails  were still sent to her 
old email address. She complained to Studio in December 2018 about her old email  address 
still being used  and says she was told her email address was updated in January 2019 but 
she then received an email to her old address in February 2019.
Mrs M has a long term health condition which is aggravated by stress and says this issue  
has had an adverse impact on her health.  She doesnt think  the £50 compensation  is 
sufficient.
Studio says that the email  address  was updated  on 6 February 2018 and has confirmed it 
now has the correct  email address. It says the compensation provided is sufficient. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He noted that we're  not able to comment  on 
whether a business has breached data protection rules  as this is the role of the Information  
Commissioners Office.  
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that Mrs Ms email address wasnt  updated in a 
timely manner but said there was no evidence to suggest emails to the old address had 
fallen into the hands of an unauthorised third party.  He thought  the £50 Studio had paid 
Mrs M in recognition of the inconvenience and upset this issue had caused  was reasonable. 
He said Studio had confirmed  that the email address was now correctly recorded.
Mrs M didnt  accept our investigators view and so this complaint has been referred to me, 
an ombudsman, to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear in this case that Mrs M hasnt been provided with the service  she should have. She 
has provided evidence  dated October 2017  showing that her email  address had been 
updated. However after this she says emails  were still received to her old email  address. 
Mrs M raised a complaint about this in December 2018 and although  she did receive a 
response to her complaint, it is clear that there  were further delays in her email  address 
being updated.
Studio has confirmed that it now has Mrs Ms updated address  on its system and so the 
main issue  of emails going to an old address  should  have been  resolved. If this isnt the case  
then Mrs M would need to raise  this again.
Ref: DRN48803652The outstanding issue relates to compensation and what  amount is reasonable. In this case  I 
think it is fair that Mrs M should receive compensation. She was caused inconvenience due 
to the issues in updating her email address and received emails to an old email  address 
even after she had been told the email  address  had been updated. Mrs M has also 
explained her health condition and how stress  aggravates this.
Studio paid Mrs M £50 compensation.  While Mrs M doesnt think  this is enough, in this case  
I find this reasonable.  I say this because although Mrs M was caused inconvenience and she 
has explained the stress caused and its impact, I have nothing to show  that the emails going 
to an old address caused any further issues, such as third parties  gaining  access to her 
information.
My role isnt to punish the business but ensure the customer is put back in the position they 
would have been had the mistake not been made. In this case by updating the email 
address this has happened  and I think that the £50 paid is reasonable based on the 
evidence I have received regarding the inconvenience caused. Based on this I do not require 
Studio to do anything  further in regard to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not require  Studio  Retail Limited to do anything  further in regard 
to this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4880365