K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and its handling of a claim.  
background
Mrs F made a claim under her buildings policy after a sink was allowed  to overflow. Looking 
at the damage  caused this must have been  a severe  overflow. There  were various issues 
with the repairs  made  following this and Mrs F has spent some  time trying to get Aviva  to 
resolve matters. She complained to us about  the floor repair in particular. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but did not uphold the complaint. They  felt 
that the report from Avivas contractor  was more persuasive than comments from Mrs Fs 
contractor. Mrs F didnt  agree, so the matter  has been  passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its clear that Mrs F hasnt  been  happy with the repairs Aviva did, and Im sorry this has 
happened to her. But, to make Aviva do more  Id need to see some clear  evidence that her 
kitchen has been  left in a worse state than it was before the sink overflow, and Im afraid  I 
havent seen enough evidence of that. 
When I first got the case to review I wasnt happy just to accept the statements of Avivas 
contractor over that of Mrs Fs. So, I asked that a third contractor  be asked to go and report  
on the floor. Having  seen this report,  which basically says the floor is adequate considering  
the material chosen and the underlying  condition  of the sub floor I dont think  I can say the 
floor has been badly fitted,  or at least not to the extent necessary  to ask Aviva  to do any 
more work.  
I know Mrs F doesnt agree with the report but it does  seem fairly comprehensive and 
explains why she may have experienced some problems, in particular the quality of the 
flooring chosen.  But as Mrs F chose the flooring herself I cant penalise Aviva for that. 
I note the other issues Mrs F had, such as inexperienced contractors and workman  leaving 
tools on her kitchen surfaces and can understand why she found this so frustrating. But, as 
no lasting damage  seems to have  been  done  again feel that I cant  ask Aviva for any 
additional remedy here. 
So, whilst there have  clearly been problems I dont  think these are such that I can blame 
Aviva for them, and certainly  not to the extent necessary  to make an award  against  Aviva.  
There are now two reports saying that the floor issues  arent down to Aviva  and these 
outweigh what the other  contractor said.  
Ref: DRN40964242my final decision
I make  no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4096424