K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains about issues  shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Land Rover  Financial Services) (LFS)
background 
In May 2018  Mrs R was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into a hire purchase  
agreement. The car had serious engine problems and a rejection was accepted by LFS. A 
replacement car was supplied to Mrs R in October  2018.
Mrs R immediately experienced issues with the audio system.  She says that every  time she 
had the radio  on or tried to use the satellite navigation, the audio  was crackling loudly 
causing a distraction.
The car was returned to the dealership who made  multiple repair attempts.  These attempts 
were unsuccessful and the dealership told Mrs R it was unable  to fix the issue.
Mrs R complained to LFS. It said it would accept  a rejection of the car. Mrs R wasnt  happy 
with this response so she complained to this service.  
Our investigator said LFS hadnt done anything  wrong by offering to accept a rejection of the 
car but felt that it should pay increased compensation to Mrs R for the distress and 
inconvenience she had suffered as a result of the fault.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she wanted  to keep the car and wanted the speakers fixed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because LFS has supplied  the car under  a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a brand new car to be of a high standard and free from minor defects.
Mrs R experienced issues  with the audio  system which the dealership has been unable  to 
resolve. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the business has one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the repair is unsuccessful then the consumer has the right to reject the car.
Taking into account that this is a brand new car with a purchase  price of approximately  
£58,405, I think that a reasonable  person would expect the speakers to work  properly  and be 
free from defects. Ive also taken  into account that several attempts to repair  the fault have 
been unsuccessful.
The dealership has tried several  software  updates to try and resolve the issue. The 
dealership has said there  is nothing more  it can do  there  is no definite date for the release 
of the next software update.
Ref: DRN43896642Because of this, I dont think LFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering to accept a 
rejection of the car.
I understand that Mrs R wants to keep the car and have the speakers  repaired. But on the 
available evidence it isnt going to be possible to repair  the speakers. In the circumstances I 
think the best course of action would be for Mrs R to reject the car.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think  the business has acted 
reasonably by offering to accept a rejection  of the car. But I think the business should have 
offered a larger sum of money to Mrs R to compensate her for the loss of enjoyment caused  
by the faulty speakers and the inconvenience of having  to return  the car to the dealership 
several times.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.  Black Horse Limited should:
Allow Mrs R to reject  the car
Unwind the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Mrs R to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mrs R.
Refund the deposit of £12,565  together with simple  interest  of 8% per year from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
Refund £1751.89 of repayments (calculated  net of usage  charge) together  with 
simple interest of 8% per year from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Pay £500 for distress  and inconvenience
Pay £150 for loss of enjoyment
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4389664