K820x#14Complaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly  closed her account. Shes also 
unhappy that NatWest placed a Credit Industry  Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker 
against her name. Ms R says the marker  was added  following payments from her account 
which she didnt authorise. She wants NatWest to remove the marker.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 August  2019. In my provisional  decision I explained why Id decided not to 
uphold Ms Rs complaint.  
Having looked  at what had happened in this case,  I thought it was more likely than not that 
Ms R had carried out the disputed transactions herself or authorised someone else to use 
her account.  I said this because:
there was no evidence to show Ms R contacted  NatWest to report shed  lost her bank 
card  if she had done so NatWest  would have cancelled her bank card;
there were no PIN changes;
the disputed  transactions  were authorised using Ms Rs genuine card (chip)  and PIN;
Ms Rs mobile phone was used  to logon to her online banking before and after the 
disputed transactions;  
there was no convincing explanation for how an unknown third party could have  
gained possession of Ms Rs bank card, mobile phone  and known Ms Rs online 
banking details;
Ms R called NatWest to increase her daily ATM  withdrawal limit prior to receiving the 
fraudulent credits into her account;
Ms R never disclosed her online banking details to anyone else;
Ms R said she was never approached by anyone else to use her account and
Ms R didnt  dispute the large  amount of money  which was paid into her account, with 
NatWest at the time
For these reasons I thought it was more likely than not that Ms R made  or authorised  the 
transactions that she disputes.
Based on the evidence  I was satisfied Ms R had received fraudulent  funds into her bank 
account. And had wrongfully retained these funds  by authorising all of the transactions  she 
disputed. On that basis, I thought it was fair that NatWest reported  Ms R to CIFAS. I also 
said NatWest hadnt done anything wrong  when it decided to close  Ms Rs account. And it 
had complied with the terms and conditions.
 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any further evidence or 
comments. Ms R didnt accept my provisional  decision. In summary she said:
she only realised there was a problem  with her account when she couldnt login to 
her online  banking;
she wasnt aware there had been  fraudulent activity  on her account  until she was 
informed by NatWest  staff;
Ref: DRN42674872she visited a NatWest  branch to find out why she couldnt  access online banking  and
she didnt carry out the disputed transaction.  And this would be supported by CCTV 
footage at the locations.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms R for her submissions and Ive thought carefully about what  shes  said.  But from 
looking at all the evidence  in this case, and for the reasons Ive explained, I think  it more 
likely that Ms R knows rather  more about  the fraudulent money  paid into her account than 
she has been prepared  to tell us or NatWest.  
I accept its possible that CCTV  footage  may have identified that someone  other  than Ms R 
made the withdrawals  she disputes. But Ms R didnt have to make the withdrawals 
personally in order  to be liable for them under the relevant rules. She can still be held 
responsible for them is she authorised the use of her card. So even if CCTV was available, 
looking at all the evidence  in this particular case, I dont think  I could be as sure as I need to 
be to say Ms R wasnt involved. 
It follows that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint about  the disputed  transactions. Im not 
persuaded that the withdrawals were  carried out by someone other  than Ms R or by 
someone without her authority. And so I dont recommend NatWest needs to do anything 
further about the transactions she disputes. I also dont uphold  Ms Rs complaint about 
NatWest closing her account. 
In the circumstances, I think NatWest was justified in acting in the way it did. On that basis,  I 
think its fair that NatWest  reported Ms R to CIFAS  for misuse of her account. And Im not 
going to ask NatWest  to remove the marker. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267487