K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1995. Mrs O says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs O took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs O says that she doesnt recall what happened  at the time she took out the finance, but 
this is understandable  given how long ago it happened. So I need  to consider is if FICL gave 
her a choice  in taking  out the PPI, and having done so, I think  that it did. I say this because 
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Os store card application  and I can see that the policy is 
presented as optional, and has been selected  with a tick. Mrs O has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs O so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs O got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs O has said, but these points dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43670002
Ref: DRN4367000