K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC declined his request  for a chargeback.
background
Mr B held a credit card account with Tesco. Mrs B was a named  card holder on the account. 
In November 2016 Mrs B purchased 4 tickets  using the credit  card for a concert taking place 
in March 2017.
The tickets  were purchased through a ticket re-selling platform  who Ill refer to as T. The 
order confirmation stated  that the tickets would be posted 7-10 days before the event.
In November 2016 Mr Bs daughter contacted T asking for confirmation  that the tickets  would  
be available more  than 2 days in advance of the concert. T replied and said it couldnt send 
out tickets until it had received them from suppliers. It said that tickets  could be received 
right up to the day of the concert.
As the concert date approached, Mr B made  several attempts to contact T as the tickets had 
not been received. Because T didnt  respond, and because Mr Bs daughter  had read some 
negative reviews about T, Mr B decided to purchase  4 further tickets from a different supplier 
the day before the concert.
On the day of the concert, T sent the tickets by email.
Mr B is unhappy that the tickets were sent on the day of the concert. Hes also unhappy  the 
tickets were sent by email  because he paid an extra postage fee at the time of purchase.  Mr 
B is unhappy that the tickets werent  in Mrs Bs name and that there were two pairs  of tickets 
with seating in separate parts of the arena rather than 4 tickets together.
Mr B contacted Tesco and asked to raise a chargeback.  Tesco declined, saying it wasnt 
able to dispute the transaction.  It said that Mr B had purchased 4 tickets and had received 4 
tickets and that there wasnt enough evidence to confirm that Mr B had been told that all 4 
tickets would be together.
Tesco also said it didnt thin Mr B had a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 because the criteria werent  met.
Mr B wasnt  happy with Tescos response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that because  the tickets had been 
sent in time for the concert she didnt think there was a reasonable prospect of success  in 
Tesco challenging T on the basis that T had provided the tickets  in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the contract. The investigator also considered  section 75 but said 
that because Mrs B was an additional  cardholder she didnt  meet the criteria of debtor in 
the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship necessary  for a section 75 claim.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Mrs B had entered into a contract for 4 tickets to be supplied  by 
first class  post for which she paid an additional  postage fee. Mr B said there was no 
expectation that the tickets would be received via email and no expectation that the family  
would be seated  separately. Mr B said hed made numerous attempts to contact  T before the 
Ref: DRN40071712concert but had received no response, and was left with no option but to purchase 4 more 
tickets the day before  the concert.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion of this complaint. I know  that will disappoint  Mr B so Ill 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file but Ill concentrate my comments on what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point  its not because  Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it but because I dont  think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach what  I 
think is the right outcome.
A chargeback is a transaction  reversal made  to dispute a card transaction and obtain  a 
refund if theres  a problem with the goods.  It works by the bank withdrawing funds which  
were previously paid to the supplier and putting them back in the consumers account.  A 
supplier can dispute  a chargeback with the bank if it can prove the chargeback  is invalid.
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback,  nor is a chargeback a guaranteed  method of 
getting a refund. The card scheme  operator  checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback  reasons  to see whether the claim  will be successful. If the bank feels  
the claim wont be successful, it doesnt have to raise a chargeback.
Chargeback can be used in cases of goods not arriving  at all, goods that are damaged, 
goods that are different from the description  or where the merchant has ceased  trading. The 
main requirement for getting money  back through chargeback is evidence  that theres been 
a breach of contract.
Mr B says he entered into a contract  for 4 tickets to be supplied  by first class post, 7-10 days  
before the concert and that he expected  the 4 tickets to be together.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the contract. These say that in extreme 
circumstances, tickets  may not arrive  until the day of the show.  They  also say that if the 
tickets arrive too late to be posted, T will arrange for the tickets to be collected at the venue,  
either in hard copy or eticket form. So whilst I understand that Mr B was expecting to receive  
hard copy tickets before  the day of the concert,  the terms and conditions  make it clear that 
this might not be the case.
I can see that Mr B paid £9.95  for shipping and admin fees.  I understand Mr Bs strength of 
feeling that the tickets should  have been  posted. But the charge of £9.95  relates  to admin  
fees as well, and in circumstances where the tickets were sent by email,  as is the case  
here, I think  its reasonable for T to charge an administration fee.
I think most  people who booked more than one ticket  would  expect to sit together  so I do 
understand Mr Bs frustration. However,  the order confirmation states that the tickets are in 
the upper  tier first 10 rows. It doesnt  mention  specific  seat numbers and I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Mrs B booked specific seats when she purchased  the tickets.
Ref: DRN40071713Ive noted Mr Bs comments about the name on the tickets. Because T is a re-selling 
platform, its generally the case that the ticket will bear the name of the original purchaser. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think theres  enough evidence  to show that theres been a 
breach of contract.  Ultimately, Mr B received 4 tickets in time for the concert  in a form of 
delivery which was permitted by the terms and conditions. Because  of this, I dont think there 
was a reasonable prospect of success in Tesco challenging  T on the basis that the tickets 
didnt arrive or that they were different from the description. So I cant  say that Tesco has 
acted unreasonably in not raising a chargeback.
I appreciate that T didnt respond to Mr B when he tried to contact them. And I understand 
why Mr B decided to buy 4 more  tickets. However,  just because Mr B purchased  tickets  
elsewhere doesnt mean hes entitled to a refund  on the original tickets.
Ive also considered whether Mr B might  have a claim under section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974. Under section 75 a consumer has an equal right to claim against the 
provider of credit or the supplier providing  the goods  or services if there has been  a breach 
of contract  or a misrepresentation by the supplier.
Section 75 requires a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. In this case, the debtor is 
Mr B, the creditor is Tesco and the supplier is T. However, the tickets  were purchased in Mrs 
Bs name, meaning that the contract  is between  Mrs B and T. Mr B isnt a party  to the 
transaction. This means that the DCS relationship is broken, and the legal requirements for a 
section 75 claim arent met.
For the reasons  Ive given Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4007171