K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that his motor insurance  policy taken out through Complete Cover Group Ltd 
was cancelled.
background
Mr A wanted  cover  for a car he intended  to use for private hire. Complete  Cover collected 
information from Mr A and passed this to the insurer. The insurer cancelled  the policy as it 
found that the car in question was rented and not leased. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mr A 
had told Complete Cover  that the car was leased. It had then found cover for him with an 
insurer. The insurer had chosen to cancel the policy  when it found that the car was rented.  
So he thought Complete  Cover hadnt  done  anything wrong. He explained that if Mr A was 
unhappy with the cancellation,  then he would need  to complain  to the insurer.
Mr A replied  that he disagreed, so his complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that Mr As insurer is responsible for the decision to 
cancel his policy. So I cant look at that here. Mr A would have to complain to the insurer  
first. What  I can look at here is whether  his broker, Complete Cover,  acted on the information 
Mr A provided to find him suitable  cover. 
Mr A used an online comparison  site and found a quote for a policy through  Complete 
Cover. He then called Complete Cover to complete the purchase.  In this call, which  Ive 
listened to, Mr A first told the agent  that the car was rented. The agent  explained  that it didnt 
offer cover for rented  cars but it did cover leased cars. He asked Mr A to contact the 
company involved  to find out whether  the car was leased or rented. The agent repeated this 
requirement several times.
Mr A later rang back to confirm that the car was leased. Based upon  this information, the 
policy was taken out with an insurer and payment was taken. 
But the insurers internal checks found  that the car was rented. So it told Complete Cover to 
cancel the policy.  Mr A still disagrees and says the car was leased, not rented, and that he 
now owns it. But this isnt something I can consider here. If Mr A thinks his policy was 
cancelled unfairly,  he will have to raise this with his insurer.
So I think Complete  Cover acted correctly  in asking Mr A a clear  question about whether the 
car was leased or rented and then finding him a policy that provided cover  based on the 
information he provided at the time.   
I can see that when  Mr A told Complete Cover that he now owned the car it offered him the 
choice of cancelling his policy and taking out a new one. This would have avoided having  the 
cancellation on his record. But, unfortunately, Mr A didnt take up this offer. 
Ref: DRN45126202my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4512620