K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has failed to find a missing  
payment that was intended to be made to a family member.
background 
Miss R says she made a payment of £300  to her fathers account in February 2019 that her 
father didnt  receive.  She says the payment hasnt been found  and that she had made  a 
number of similar payments in the past. Miss R also complains about how NatWest dealt 
with her complaint.
NatWest accepts it didnt  deal with parts of Miss Rs complaint appropriately and has 
apologised. It says Miss R made the payment using  her father name  and details that were 
on her online  banking  as a saved payee and so doesnt accept making  a mistake.  It also 
says Miss Rs father may have changed  his account  details or bank.
Miss R doesnt accept that view and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  looked 
into the complaint  and tried to trace where the money had gone. The money had been sent 
to a different  bank  and withdrawn shortly afterwards.  The investigator thought on balance 
that NatWest hadnt made an error  about the payment and that Miss R had selected the 
wrong payee details or that Miss Rs father  either had different accounts or Miss R had used 
details for an old account.
The investigator thought NatWest should have recognised this as a payment to an incorrect  
account and done more  to try and recall  the payment. He recommended NatWest pay £100 
compensation for this which its agreed  to do.
Miss R doesnt accept that view and says she would have  checked  to whom the payment 
was being made and says she thinks her account was compromised. She says shes not 
changed her fathers details in more than 10 years  and says the compensation is not 
enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Miss R will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no question here that NatWest  should  have treated this as a payment to an 
incorrect account and I think should  have done  more to explain that process to Miss R when 
she raised this complaint.  I would have expected NatWest to have contacted  the bank that 
the payment was made to attempt to recover that money.  I can see that the money was 
withdrawn shortly after the transfer so I accept there would have been no guarantee that the 
money could have been recovered. So I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay 
£100 compensation for not explaining matters to Miss R and attempting  that recover.  Im 
satisfied that compensation is fair and reasonable.
I have no doubt  that Miss Rs intention was to pay her father and must have selected an 
account saved  on her online banking as her fathers. And I can see from her account 
statements that a payment  was made  to an account  saved in his name on Miss Rs online 
banking on 11 February 2019 for £300. I also accept  that in 2016  Miss R made a payment  to 
Ref: DRN48296982her fathers correct account  in 2016.  I think on balance that it more  likely that Miss R may 
have at some point registered  different  account details for her father and so may have  
selected an old account for the payment of £300. I also think it likely that her father over the 
last few years did change his bank as I can see that his present bank is a fairly new bank.
In those circumstances I cant fairly  conclude  that it was NatWest  that has made a mistake. I 
can also see that Miss R believes her account  may have been compromised in any event. 
So for that reason I cant fairly order  NatWest to refund the £300  or pay any further  
compensation. I appreciate that Miss R will have unanswered questions about what  went  on 
and of course she may wish to consider  alternative  action against  the recipient of her money. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster  Bank  
Plc to pay Miss R £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4829698