K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
to him alongside a loan in 1995.  
background
I can see that Lloyds  sold Mr T several  PPI policies over the years.  To be clear, the 
complaint that is before  me is only about the cover that was sold in 1995. I understand that 
Lloyds upheld Mr Ts other complaints. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr T disagreed  with that view.  
He said that his circumstances were  the same as when  his other complaints were upheld 
and so the PPI with this loan must have been  mis-sold.  
As the parties dont agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding
this case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr T, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr T during a meeting. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mr T remembers about  it. Ive also considered a sample  loan agreement  that Lloyds 
sent to us, along with some of its electronic records that are available from that time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr T would have known  the PPI cover  was optional  
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it. I appreciate that Mr T says he wasnt  aware of 
the PPI. And I accept  that what hes told us is his honest belief about the sale. But I also 
have to take account of the fact that its difficult to remember precisely what  happened 
24 years  ago, which is when this policy was sold. 
Im satisfied that the credit agreement Mr T signed  would  have been  similar  to that which  
Lloyds provided  us. Looking at that sample  agreement, I can see that PPI is described  as 
optional throughout the document. Similarly, the cost of the PPI is set out separately to cost 
of the loan. I appreciate Mr T doesnt  now remember, but I think this shows  there was some  
discussion about PPI. If there  wasnt, I think Mr T would have queried what  those figures 
were for. Given the agreement describes  the policy as optional, I think the person selling the 
cover to Mr T would have also made that clear.  
Lloyds advised  Mr T to buy PPI. So it had to make sure the cover was suitable for his needs. 
To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at what Lloyds told us about the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought carefully about what  Mr T told us 
about his personal  circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN44479502Lloyds hasnt been able to provide me with the precise policy document.  But it has referred 
us to a policy document that was produced  shortly  after Mr T took the PPI policy  out. The 
terms in that document are similar  to those we know applied to similar  policies when Mr T 
bought PPI. Im satisfied  that the terms of the cover Mr T bought would have  been  very 
similar or the same as those Lloyds  provided  to us. 
So, its likely that If Mr T had to make a claim on the PPI, his repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months for each claim if he lost his job or if he was too unwell to work. 
Mr T told us that he would have received six months full pay and six months half pay if he 
was out of work. However, I can see from Lloyds electronic  records that he appears to have 
only been in his job for five months  before he took the loan out. Such a sick pay 
arrangement appears very generous after such a short time. Nevertheless, even if I accept 
that Mr T did receive six months full pay, it follows that the PPI would  have paid out for 
longer than his sick pay would  have  lasted. 
Mr T told us that he had other means with which to make repayments  towards  his loan. He 
hasnt told us specifically  what those other  means  were, other than he would have received 
a redundancy  payment if he lost his job. Taking account of the length  of time hed been in his 
role, it seems unlikely that he would  have received a substantial redundancy payment.  
I can see that Mr T refinanced this loan and other debts shortly  after it was taken out. So I 
think that if he did have  other means  with which to make repayments, it appears  he wanted 
to keep them intact. 
Mr T appears to have been sold a single premium PPI policy. Its not clear to me whether he 
would have received a pro rata refund if he cancelled the cover early.  To be fair to Mr T, Ive 
assumed that he wouldnt. But this appears  to have been the first loan that Mr T had taken 
out with Lloyds. I dont think  there was anything to suggest that Mr T might repay his loan 
early at that stage. So I dont think a single premium policy  was an unsuitable 
recommendation at that time.  
Mr T told us that he was in good  health at the time. I dont think  hed have been  affected by 
any of the policys  exclusions about  medical conditions.  I havent seen anything unusual  
about his employment circumstances that would have stopped him from being able to make 
a successful claim if he needed to. In particular, I cant  see that the length of time Mr T had 
been with his employer would have  affected a potential PPI claim. 
Overall, I think the PPI Lloyds recommended was probably suitable for Mr Ts needs. Even 
so, Lloyds still had to give Mr T enough information  about the cover so he could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr T everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how the policy  could have been 
helpful for him if he was out of work.  Ultimately,  I dont think  more or better information about 
the cover  would have  put Mr T off buying  it. 
I know that Mr T will be disappointed with this decision. Its not for me to say why this 
complaint hasnt been upheld and his others were. What I would say is that his 
circumstances for this loan were  not exactly the same as for the other loans. I note that the 
purpose of this loan was to buy a car  the second loan was to consolidate  debt, which could 
have put Lloyds on notice that a single premium policy was not right for him with the 
subsequent loans. 
Ref: DRN44479503However, for the reasons  I have set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont  
require Lloyds to take any action to put things right. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4447950