K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a number  of loans that were  secured on their property. 
I know that when  Mr and Mrs M bought PPI that Lloyds was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs M have discussed  a complaint about PPI sold alongside a 
credit card with our adjudicator. Just to be clear, this final decision is about  the PPI sold 
alongside their Lloyds mortgage  and secured  loans  only.  
background
The first loan (Loan  1) was taken out in May 1994  when Mr and Mrs M were  buying their 
new home. They applied  for further loans in September 1994 (Loan 2), 
December 1994  (Loan  3), August 1996 (Loan 4) and August 2001 (Loan 5). 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint about  mis-sold  PPI should be upheld. But Lloyds  
had offered to pay back to Mr and Mrs M some of the commission  it received from their PPI 
payments. Our adjudicator thought that was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with that view. They said they were  given  the impression that PPI 
wasnt optional. So the matter has been  passed  to me to make a final decision 
I want to acknowledge  at the outset that I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint has been 
with this Service for a long time.  Im grateful  to the parties for their patience whilst  we worked 
through the impact of a Supreme Court  judgment on this case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I havent upheld their complaint about the mis-
sales. I think the offer Lloyds made  to repay  some of the commission it received from their 
PPI premiums is a fair way to settle  this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
As I said above, Mr and Mrs M took out five loans and their PPI policy was amended each 
time. Lloyds  has treated  each amendment as a separate sale. Its not entirely clear to me 
whether PPI was sold each time or whether the existing policy was just changed  to reflect  
the new loan.  But to be fair to Mr and Mrs M, Ive considered each change as a separate 
sale. 
Loan 1 
I can see that the loan application was made  in a Lloyds branch. I cant  know  what was said 
during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mr and Mrs M told us about  it. And Ive also looked at the paperwork thats  available  
from that time. 
Ref: DRN40790672I think its important for me to say that I dont at all doubt that what  Mr and Mrs M told us is 
what they honestly remember about  the sale. But I also have  to take into account that the 
first policy was sold over 25 years ago. And it is difficult to remember precisely what 
happened such a long time ago. 
The mortgage application form doesnt deal with the PPI application. It only asks 
Mr and Mrs M to tick if they hadnt  received advice about PPI. So it looks  as though the PPI 
was dealt with separately  to the mortgage. I know that Mr and Mrs M genuinely believe that 
the PPI was sold to them  as a package.  But I think at that time,  it would  have been  
reasonably clear that the cover  was a separate product, given that a separate  application for 
PPI had to be made. 
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs M to buy PPI. So it had to make sure it was suitable for their 
needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions. And Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs M told us about their circumstances 
at the time. 
I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim on the PPI, Mr and Mrs M would have each been 
covered for 50% of their mortgage repayment if theyd become unwell of if theyd lost their 
jobs. The cover would  have lasted for up to 12 months for each  claim.  
Mr M told us that if hed been unable to work, hed have had between six and 12 months  sick 
pay from his employer. It seems likely that this would have been six months full pay and six 
months half pay. Mrs M told us that she couldnt remember what  her sick pay entitlement  
was. Ive looked at the type of work  she did and I think its likely shed have got similar sick 
pay to Mr M. So it follows  that the PPI was likely to have paid out for longer than their full pay 
would have lasted.  
Mr and Mrs M told us they had some savings  they could have relied on to repay  their 
mortgage if they were  out of work. But looking at Mr and Mrs Ms subsequent borrowing 
pattern, I can see that they took out another loan shortly after this mortgage was agreed. It 
seems as though  they wanted  to keep any savings they had intact.  And with PPI, they could 
have repaid their mortgage without having  to touch their savings. 
Mr and Mrs M told us they were in good  health at the time they took the mortgage  out. So I 
dont think theyd have  been affected  by any of the policys exclusions about  medical 
conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual about their employment circumstances that 
would have stopped them from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. 
I think its important for me to note that this mortgage was secured on Mr and Mrs Ms home. 
And so it was at significant risk if they fell behind with their repayments. With all of this in 
mind, I think  the PPI probably was suitable for their needs. 
Lloyds still had to give Mr and Mrs M enough  information the cover  so they could decide for 
themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information  should have been fair, 
clear and not misleading. I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs M as much  
information as it should have done. But Ive set out above how I think  PPI could have  been  
helpful to them if they were out of work. And so I dont think theyd have acted differently if 
theyd been given more or better  information  about the cover.  
Loan 2
Ref: DRN40790673I can see that Loan 2 was taken out in branch  in August 2004  to buy a car. PPI was added to 
cover Mr and Mrs M for 50% of the mortgage  repayment each if they were  out of work. 
Ive looked again at whether Mr and Mrs M would  have known the policy  was optional and 
they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want it. I think that what  was discussed between the 
parties is probably reflected in whats written  in the paperwork. This time, there was a box on 
the application for Mr and Mrs M to tick if they wanted a quotation for PPI. That box hasnt 
been ticked, but we know  that the PPI policy was amended to include the new borrowing. So 
I think its fair to say that if Mr and Mrs M were only asked if they wanted a quotation for PPI, 
it would  have been reasonably clear that they didnt need to take the PPI out. I dont  think it 
suggests it was compulsory for them  to increase their cover. 
Mr and Mrs Ms personal circumstances were broadly the same  when  they applied  for this 
loan as they were  when  they applied for Loan 1. So for the reasons set out above, I think  the 
policy was probably  suitable for their needs. And even if Lloyds didnt tell them  everything  it 
should have done, I dont  think more  or better information about  the cover  would have  put 
them off buying  it.   
Loans 3 and 4 
Ive dealt with these loans together because the application forms were the same and have 
been completed in the same way. And Mr and Mrs Ms personal circumstances were broadly  
the same. I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the PPI policy,  Mr and Mrs M would 
have been covered for 50% each of their mortgage repayments if they were out of work.  
The application form asks Mr and Mrs M to tick a box if they wanted a PPI quote. So as they 
were only asked if they wanted  a quote  at that time, I think theyd have known PPI wasnt  a 
compulsory part of their mortgage and that they could have refused it if they wanted  to. 
Again, these sales were  advised. So Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for 
their needs.  The terms and conditions of the policy hadnt changed. And Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances were also the same. So again, for the reasons Ive set out above,  its 
likely the policy was suitable for their needs. And I think theyd have bought  it even if Lloyds 
had told them everything it should  have done.  
Loan 5 
The PPI for Loan  5 was also sold during a meeting. Again, I cant  know  what  was said during 
that meeting,  so Ive considered the available evidence to decide whats likely to have 
happened. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing that Mr and Mrs Ms application form for this loan.  I can see 
that there  were two equally prominent  boxes about  PPI to complete  one to say they 
wanted a PPI policy and another to say they did not. Mr and Mrs M have  ticked  the box 
indicating they wanted PPI. I think its clear  from the form that if they didnt want a PPI policy, 
they didnt have to choose it. And after taking account of the paperwork, I think it is likely  PPI 
was presented as optional  when  it was sold. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So again,  Lloyds had to make  sure PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ms needs. For this loan, their personal circumstances were different in that Mrs 
M wasnt  working and so the cover was set up to cover Mr M only. In deciding whether the 
Ref: DRN40790674cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also 
thought again about their personal  circumstances at the time. 
If Mr M had been out of work, the PPI would have  covered him for up to 12 months  for each 
claim. Mr M was still working  for the same employer and so Ive taken his sick pay to have 
been six months full pay and six months  half pay. With that in mind, I think  the cover  would 
have lasted for longer than his full pay. 
Mr and Mrs M told us that they had savings worth more than three  months but less than six 
months of their pay. I dont doubt  that what they told us is what  they honestly  remember  
about their personal  circumstances.  But looking  at the reason Mr and Mrs M took out this 
loan, Im not sure their recollection  is correct.  Even  if it was, it looks as though  they wanted 
to keep their savings intact. And this PPI policy would have allowed them to do that if Mr M 
was out of work. 
Its important for me to reiterate that this mortgage was secured on their home. And so the 
consequences of falling  behind with repayments  could  have  been  significant for Mr and Mrs 
M at that time. With all of this in mind,  I think this policy probably was suitable for their 
needs. 
Again, I accept it is possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs M everything it should have 
done about the PPI.  But  Ive set out above how this PPI could have been helpful for them  if 
Mr M was out of work.  Although I appreciate  they dont now remember, I think they chose 
this policy  at the time  so it looks as though they wanted this type of cover.  I dont think  
more or better information about the PPI would have  put them off buying  the policy.  
All of this means  Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. 
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to them  because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.  
Ref: DRN40790675*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4079067