K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has limited part of a claim made  under his home 
contents insurance policy.
Mr G is represented in this complaint by his partner Mr H. For ease I will refer to all actions 
as those of Mr G.
background
In late 2014 Mr G made a claim under his home  insurance policy as his property had been 
burgled and items had been stolen. AXA limited  part of the claim made for items belonging 
to his partner, Mr H, to a policy limit of £500. They considered him a visitor saying he didnt 
meet the definition  of family  under the policy. Mr G was unhappy  with this limitation so made 
a formal complaint.
AXA looked  into the complaint and maintained that Mr H was considered a visitor  to the 
property. AXA took into consideration  that Mr H wasnt registered on the electoral roll at the 
property, his bills werent sent there, and he has his own home insurance policy on another 
property. AXA also considered that both Mr G and Mr H spent nights at both properties.  
Because of this AXA said Mr H wasnt permanently residing at the property so a limit of £500 
applied to the part of the claim for his items.
They also addressed concerns from Mr G who feels the claim was limited  as he and Mr H 
are not in a civil partnership. AXA said this wasnt the case, and it was the policy  wording 
about permanently  residing at the property which was important. AXA also paid £250  for 
customer service  both on this complaint, and a previous complaint Mr G had made.  Mr G 
was unhappy  with the response from AXA so brought his complaint to our service.
One of investigators  looked into what happened. She thought  AXA didnt act unreasonably 
when saying that because of the living arrangements Mr H wasnt  considered to permanently  
reside at the property,  and so didnt meet the definition  of family under the policy.  Mr G 
remained unhappy with this so the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I think its important to tell Mr G theres  no doubt a robbery took place, and this has clearly 
caused a great deal of upset. I also dont doubt that Mr G and Mr H are in a long term 
relationship as partners.  But its also important to say that my role isnt to re-underwrite the 
claim, but to decide whether AXA acted fairly  when  applying  the policy terms to the claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
or limitations  in policies.  Here the policy has a £500 claim limitation for items stolen 
belonging to visitors to the property. AXA has applied this policy term saying Mr H doesnt  
permanently reside  at the property and therefore,  under the policy,  is considered  a visitor.
Ref: DRN47828542The issue  here is whether  I think AXA has acted fairly  saying that Mr H doesnt meet the 
definition of family under the policy. The policy definition of family is:
Your domestic partner, children, domestic staff and any other  person all permanently 
residing with you and not paying  commercial rent.
Theres no doubt that Mr G and Mr H are considered domestic partners, especially after 
being together for over 20 years.  However, for Mr H to meet the definition  of family, as 
defined in the policy, he needs to meet all parts of the definition. The part of the definition  in 
question is whether Mr H is permanently residing at the property. If Mr H doesnt meet the 
whole definition then under the policy, he is considered a visitor to the property, and the 
£500 claim limit applies.
The policy doesnt  define permanently residing, so Ive thought  about  the things AXA took 
into account when  assessing the claim,  as well as what  Mr G told us during our investigation. 
When Mr G spoke to AXA to lodge  the claim, he told them Mr H stayed  a few days  a week  
at the property as he works locally. He said that Mr H had a lot of stuff taken from his 
room. Mr G said that Mr H lives about 20 miles away, and they had to drive to his house to 
see what hes covered  for as he has his own insurance policy that covers things away from 
home. As part of the conversation AXA asked if Mr H partly resided at the property, to 
which Mr G agreed. Mr G also told AXA that he and Mr H had made separate police  reports 
about the burglary. AXA said that because Mr H has his own policy, he should pursue  the 
matter with them first of all, which Mr G said he understood.
From the information given to them by Mr G I can see why AXA didnt  consider  Mr H to be 
permanently residing at the property. And having listened  to the call I think  it was reasonable 
of AXA to interpret  the information in that way. 
Mr G told us he was stressed at the time of making  the claim and regrets if he gave the 
wrong impression. This is understandable  as a burglary is a stressful event. Mr G also told 
us the property Mr H owns was inherited from his mother who passed away.  
Ive listened to the telephone call and weighed up all of the information provided.  Having 
done so Im satisfied  AXA applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably  when saying Mr H 
doesnt permanently  reside at the property, and so doesnt meet  definition  of family under 
the policy. Information has been  provided  to both us and AXA after the initial  call; however, 
Im satisfied its fair for AXA to place weight of evidence  upon the information they were 
given by Mr G at the time of making the claim. 
Mr G said he feels the claim was limited as he and Mr H are not in a civil partnership, and 
that AXA havent recognised they are a couple. I can understand Mr Hs strength of feeling  
with this, however  Ive seen no evidence that this is the case. From  what Ive seen AXA has 
applied the policy terms as they would  when assessing any claim.
AXA paid Mr G £250 for failings in customer service  saying  parts  of this complaint could 
have been handled better,  as well as not fully investigating a previous complaint. This issue 
didnt form part of the complaint Mr G brought to our service,  however for the sake  of 
completeness Ive thought about what happened. Having done so, I think this is a fair 
payment for the customer service Mr G received.
Ref: DRN47828543I have sympathy for Mr G as a robbery did take place, and there has been a loss of property  
to both him and Mr H. However,  Im satisfied AXA acted fairly and reasonably  when applying  
the policy terms and limiting the part of the claim for Mr Hs belongings. I therefore wont  be 
asking AXA to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4782854