K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
FCA Automotive Services UK Limited,  trading as Jeep Financial Services,  wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr T under a hire purchase agreement  with Jeep Financial 
Services that he signed in April 2016. The cars throttle cut out in February  2017,  the car 
went into limp mode and the engine  management  warning light came on so the car was 
recovered to the dealer. The dealers job sheet shows that the cars mileage at that time was 
6,719. The car was with the dealer for about two weeks but it broke  down again six days 
later and was recovered back  to the dealer. The dealer had the car for about four weeks  and 
replaced the accelerator pedal. The car had to be recovered to the dealer again  in June 
2017. Various  sensors  were replaced  and the car was returned to Mr T about three weeks  
later. But it had to be recovered again  less than two weeks  after that and was then with the 
dealer for about three months. The car broke  down  again  at the end of March 2018  and was 
taken to a different dealer   where I understand it has remained since then as Mr T says that 
hes lost confidence  in the car. The cars mileage is about 13,600.  Mr T was provided with a 
courtesy car but it was returned  in June 2018. 
Mr T complained to Jeep  Financial Services in April 2018 but wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that there had 
been numerous attempts to repair the car but faults  continue. And given the length of time 
that this has been ongoing, he said that the fair resolution would  be to end the agreement 
and for the car to be collected by Jeep Financial Services.  He understood that the car had 
been with a dealer since the end of March 2018 and that Mr T had a courtesy  car until June 
2018. But he said that Mr T hadnt  had the uninterrupted use of the car that hed paid for so it 
wouldnt be fair for Jeep  Financial Services to retain  all of the monthly  payments that hed 
made under the agreement. So he recommended  that Jeep  Financial Services  should end 
the agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected, refund Mr Ts deposit and his monthly  
payments made after the beginning of April 2018 (all with interest)  and pay him £250 for the 
inconvenience that hed been caused.
Mr T has accepted the investigators recommendation  but says that hes also paying  to tax 
and insure the car that hes not used. Jeep Financial  Services has asked for this complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in summary, that:
the first fault recorded was 10 months after point of sale and theres no evidence that 
the fault was present at the point of sale; 
there were no faults with the car between November 2017 and March 2018  so the 
earlier faults had been rectified;
the engine  management warning light can come  on for a multitude of different 
reasons so its not correct to say that all of the faults were linked;
Mr T was being kept mobile in a hire car and made the decision not to accept his car 
back so was asked  to return the hire car in June  so it shouldnt  be required to 
refund his monthly payments  between March and June 2018;
Mr T had no legal right to reject, the car was repaired and hes not provided  evidence 
to show that any of the faults were present at the point  of sale; and 
it offered to liaise with the dealer to arrange to buy the car back from Mr T.
Ref: DRN43207512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jeep Financial Services, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. Where a brand new car is supplied the 
expectation is that the car will be free from even  minor defects. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time. Exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car that was supplied  to Mr T in April 2016 was a new car. But about ten months later  
when the car had only been driven for about  6,700 miles - the cars  throttle  cut out, the car 
went into limp mode and the engine  management  warning light came on -so the car was 
recovered to the dealer. The car was repaired but it broke down again six days later.  It was 
repaired again but wasnt available to Mr T until April 2017.  And it broke down again in June 
2017 and at the end of July 2017 - when its mileage  was recorded as 9,732. The car was 
repaired again but wasnt returned to Mr T until November 2017. 
Mr T didnt  report  any further issues with the car until the end of March  2018 when it broke 
down again. He returned the car to a different dealer and said that hed lost confidence in the 
car so didnt  want it back. He was provided  with a courtesy car until June 2018  when he 
was asked to return  it.
So the new car that had been supplied to Mr T broke down four times in less than fifteen 
months and when it had only been used to drive  about 9,700 miles. I dont consider it to be 
reasonable to expect  a new car to have those issues. And I consider it to be more likely than 
not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr T. When  the car 
broke down  again in March 2018, I consider it to be reasonable for Mr T to say that hed lost 
confidence in the car and wanted to reject it.
I find that its fair and reasonable  for Mr T to reject the car in these circumstances. So I find 
that Jeep Financial Services should  end the hire purchase agreement  and collect  the car  
both at no cost to Mr T. And I find that it should refund the deposit that he paid for the car, 
with interest.
Mr T was provided with a courtesy car when his car was being  repaired. But his car was with 
the dealer for a total of about  five months between  February and November 2017. And Mr T 
will have suffered loss of use and enjoyment of his car during those periods. He left the car 
at the dealer at the end of March 2018 and was then provided  with a courtesy car until June 
2018. But he will have suffered further loss of use and loss of enjoyment of his car during 
that period. Because Mr T wasnt able to use his car after March 2018  (and to compensate  
him for the loss of enjoyment and loss of use of his car) I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Jeep Financial Services to refund to him all of the monthly  payments that hes 
made under the agreement since the beginning of April 2018, with interest. Mr T has been 
paying to insure  and tax the car during that time  even though  he hasnt been able to use 
the car. And I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Jeep Financial Services to 
reimburse him for the costs that hes incurred to insure and tax the car since  the beginning of 
April 2018 (but hell need to provide Jeep Financial Services with acceptable evidence of 
those costs).
Ref: DRN43207513These events will have  caused considerable distress and inconvenience for Mr T. And I find 
that Jeep Financial Services should  pay him £250 to compensate  him for that distress  and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I order FCA 
Automotive Services UK Limited,  trading  as Jeep Financial Services, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected  both at no 
cost to Mr T.
2.Refund to Mr T the deposit that he paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mr T the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement  since  the 
beginning of April 2018.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £250 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
6.Reimburse Mr T for the cost of insuring and taxing  the car since  the beginning of 
April 2018.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Jeep Financial Services to deduct  tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 4 above. Jeep Financial Services must  give Mr T a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4320751