K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a store  
card PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Ms S took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst  in a shop in 
November 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms S says she didnt  ask for the PPI and that she wasnt given a choice about having  it. 
However Ive seen a copy of Ms Ss application form for the store  card. It has a separate  
section for PPI and Ms S has ticked a box in that section to request the policy.  She could  
have left the box blank if she didnt want the PPI.
The sale happened a long time ago and so Ms Ss recollection of the sale has probably  
faded slightly, which wouldnt  be surprising. Based on the available  evidence, I think that 
FICL made Ms S aware that she had a choice  about  buying  the PPI  and the way that the 
application form is laid out reinforces that. It seems to me that Ms S probably decided  to buy 
it, knowing that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer  remembers doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Ms S, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Ms S would  have received sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than Ms S would have received full pay for. Mrs Ss 
representative told us that she had existing  alternative insurance policies, but recently  Mrs S 
has clarified that this was not the case. Ms S originally told us that she held savings 
equivalent to between three  and six months salary.  Recently she has told us that she had 
considerably more, although she hasnt  provided  any evidence of this. Regardless of the 
level of Ms Ss savings,  the policy would have allowed her to retain  these or use them  to pay 
for other household bills at what would have been a difficult time. Overall  I think  Ms S had a 
need for the policy and could have benefitted from it if shed been unable  to work due to 
illness or if shed lost her job. And she seems to have  found the policy  affordable.
Ref: DRN45332162Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms S wasnt affected by any of those  things. As I 
think that Ms S had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Ms S isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4533216