K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy British  Gas Insurance Limited  (British  Gas)  has charged him an excess  after 
he made a claim on his home emergency  insurance  policy.
background
Mr J has explained he contacted his home emergency insurer,  British Gas,  to make a claim 
after he discovered that the heating  at his property wasnt  working. He said an engineer from 
British Gas attended, but didnt need  to complete any work on the boiler to fix the heating.  
Mr J said the engineer instead identified there  was a blockage in a drain  which was the 
cause of the problem. So, British Gas sent out a drainage specialist to clear this.
Following this, Mr J was informed he needed  to pay a £60 excess for his claim. But Mr J 
didnt feel this was correct. He accepted there was an excess  applicable  for when repair or 
replacement work had been completed to a boiler  or heating system, But he said his policy 
didnt explain there was an excess applicable for work to drains.  He also noted that the initial  
engineer that attended said there  wouldnt be an excess applicable for the work needed 
here.
British Gas said Mr J purchased his home emergency policy  online,  and at the time of 
purchasing it he would have had an option  to choose an excess of £60 for his policy,  or to 
not have one at all. It said Mr J selected  to have the excess. It said the excess was 
applicable to all parts  of Mr Js policy, and that this was explained on the policy  documents  
provided to him. It did note that its initial engineer didnt tell Mr J an excess would still apply 
to his claim.  So, it offered Mr J an amount of £20 as a gesture of goodwill for this. Because  
Mr J didnt agree he referred his complaint  to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He agreed  with 
Mr J that a repair wasnt carried  out on the boiler. But, he said that unblocking the drains 
meant a repair  was carried out on the drainage system. And the policy  said an excess  was 
applicable when  a repair was carried out. So, he didnt think  British Gas had applied  the 
excess incorrectly. And he felt the £20 offered  by British Gas for the engineer not telling Mr J 
about the excess was reasonable.
Mr J didnt agree. He said that his policy documents clearly explained there  was an excess 
payable for repairs  to the boiler. But he reiterated  that he couldnt  see anything  within  the 
policy that said the excess was also applicable  in this case. Mr J felt the wording of the 
policy wasnt clear,  fair or succinct. Mr J didnt accept the £20 compensation offered  to him.
Because Mr J didnt agree, his complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ref: DRN43111152Ive reviewed Mr Js policy  documents to see what cover  his home emergency policy  
provides to him. I can see it does provide cover for repairing and unblocking drains. But Mr J 
has said an excess doesnt  apply  to work  of this nature. So, Ive needed to consider whether 
British Gas has acted  fairly  and in line with the terms  of Mr Js insurance policy,  in asking 
him to pay a £60 excess for the work  it carried out to unblock the drain  at Mr Js property. 
When Mr J purchased his policy he was sent information on the product he bought. He was 
sent an Insurance Product Information  Document which explained the main things the 
policy covered, and any restrictions to this. Under the restrictions  section of this document  it 
was clearly explained that;
If you have chosen  to pay an excess you will need to pay this for each  completed  repair  or 
replacement.
Im aware that Mr J did choose  to pay an excess as part of his policy. Ive seen Mr Js policy  
document which confirms  this is £60. So, Im satisfied that if a repair  or replacement was 
completed at his property  it was made  clear that Mr J would need to pay this excess  to 
British Gas.
The words  repair and replacement are defined in Mr Js policy. No replacements were 
carried out at Mr Js property. So, I wont consider  this definition further. But there is a 
dispute about whether a repair was carried out at the property. Under the definitions section 
of Mr Js policy a repair is defined as;
Repair(s)/repairing/repaired
to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an individual fault or breakdown but not 
repairs that are purely  cosmetic or related to software  which doesnt stop the main function 
of your boiler, appliance or system from working  or make it unsafe.
Ive thought about whether unblocking the drains  at Mr Js property  falls within  this definition.
Mr J has said the above term only relates to the boiler at his property, and not other things. 
But I dont agree. The definition refers to three  separate things  a boiler, an appliance or a 
system. And the definition of drains in the policy refers to it being  the system of waste water  
pipes at your property. So, Im satisfied  the definition of repair  does apply to the drainage 
system too.
 
I appreciate Mr J has said unblocking a drain is different to repairing them.  He has 
highlighted that under the drains section of the policy repairing and unblocking  them is 
referred to separately. And unblocking isnt defined. But, Im satisfied that the unblocking of a 
drain can also be considered a repair  as defined by the policy.
In this case, it was necessary for British Gas to fix a problem with the drainage  system  the 
problem being  the blockage. And I understand this was necessary following the breakdown  
of the heating at Mr Js property. Once the blockage was removed, the problem was 
repaired, and the heating  working again.  Given this, Im satisfied a repair was carried out at 
Mr Js property. And therefore British Gas has acted reasonably  in requiring Mr J to pay the 
excess.
Ref: DRN43111153British Gas did acknowledge that its initial engineer could have been clearer about whether 
an excess applied to the work being done.  I dont have any firm evidence  of what  was said 
between Mr J and the first engineer that attended  the property. But I do think British Gas has 
acted fairly  in offering Mr J £20 as a gesture of goodwill, to recognise the likelihood  its 
engineer wasnt  clear about  what Mr J should expect in respect of the excess  being charged.  
So, Im not requiring it to do anything more.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything  more. If it hasnt  already done  so, British Gas 
Insurance Limited should pay Mr J the £20 it has already offered as a gesture of goodwill.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4311115