K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  at how Easi-Drive Limited dealt with the repairs to his car following a road 
traffic accident.
background
Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident  in October 2018; he was stationary when he was 
hit from behind by another  car. Easi-Drive  were instructed to deal with the repairs to his car.
Mr M has complained that, when  his car was returned from the repairers, the engine 
management light (EML) was lit and the boot spring was faulty. He says that neither  of these 
faults were present when the car went in for repair.
Our investigator said shed seen  no evidence to suggest the EML was lit as a result  of the 
accident or the repairs. But she thought the problem with the boot resulted from the accident 
or was caused by the repairers.  So she said Easi-Drive  should arrange to have this repaired.
Mr M agreed  with the investigator, but Easi-Drive didnt. They say the damage to the boot 
was either defective  in manufacture and has failed over time, or the vehicle has had a 
previous rear end incident  which was not repaired adequately. They also say that because  
Mr M advises that this issue was not present post-accident  and only occurred once the 
garage returned the vehicle [this] strongly indicates  that is an entirely  unrelated failure.
Because of this they dont  believe they should be responsible for fixing  the boot. Instead  they 
feel that Mr M should obtain an engineers  report and, if this shows the boot issue  is accident 
related, the repair costs  should be recovered from the third-party insurer  (TPI).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen the independent engineers  report of 11 October 2018,  following the inspection  of 
Mr Ms car. This confirms  the impact  point of the accident was at the rear of Mr Ms car. This 
also confirms that Mr Ms car needed a new rear bumper, bumper mouldings, lower  cover 
and parking sensor bracket. The report makes no mention  of any damage to the boot as a 
result of the accident.
Its not disputed  that, when  Mr Ms car was returned to him following the repairs,  he 
immediately raised  the issue of damage  to the boot.
Ive seen a report  from a main dealer, dated 10 December  2018, whod inspected Mr Ms 
car. This report says car has been in a collision  and this is why the boot does not open  all 
the way up by its self [sic]. EML is on due to the collision also. The main dealer also did a 
diagnostic check on the Engine Management Unit.
Ref: DRN49119062This diagnostic check shows faults  that happened  around 4,000km before the October  2018 
accident. These faults are likely to have resulted in the EML being lit. Based on the faults  
shown on the diagnostic check,  the independent  engineer believes this would indicate a 
previous front-end  impact.  And the presence  of new front bumper brackets would  also 
indicate this. Because  of this, he doesnt  think that the EML being lit relates to the October 
2018 accident. 
Based upon my reading of the diagnostic check,  Im in agreement with the engineer and the 
investigator that the EML being  lit is most likely not to be related to the October 2018 
accident. So I wont be asking Easi-Drive to do anything about  this.
But the point of impact  of the October  2018 accident was at the rear of Mr Ms car. And the 
repairs carried out were  to the rear of Mr Ms car. Easi-Drive have said that no work was 
carried out to the boot and believe its a coincidence  that the failure of the boot happened  
while it was being  repaired - they say the repairs and the boot issue are entirely  unrelated.
I dont agree with Easi-Drive on this. There was no problem with the boot when it went in for 
repair, but there was a problem when the car was returned to Mr M. And the garage  Easi-
Drive instructed to deal with the repairs were working at the rear of the car. And part of the 
repairs included work on the rear parking sensors   the wring for which is most likely 
accessed through the boot. 
So I believe  its more likely than not that the damage  to the boot happened  while  Mr Ms car 
was in the care of Easi-Drives appointed repairers.  And, as the independent engineer  made 
no reference to accident damage  to the boot when they originally inspected  the car; I dont 
think its reasonable for Easi-Drive to say Mr M now needs to prove the damage is accident 
related and claim the repair  costs back from the TPI. 
Its Easi-Drives  responsibility to arrange for the repairs  to the boot, and they should  do so at 
no cost to Mr M. And, because  Easi-Drive  made  a hire car available  to Mr M while  the 
original repairs were  taking place, they should  also make a hire car available while  these 
repairs are taking place.  Also at no cost to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Easi-Drive Limited must 
arrange for the boot of Mr Ms car to be repaired, at no cost to Mr M.
Ref: DRN49119063Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4911906