K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods (SDFC) 
lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
Mr R has also complained  about  some payment insurance that he took out in connection 
with his credit account. That complaint is being dealt with separately  and so will not form any 
part of my decision here.
background 
Mr R opened a catalogue shopping  account  with SDFC in November 2010.  Since  then his 
credit limit has been changed  on three  occasions as shown  below;
Date of 
Change Amount  of 
Increase or 
(Decrease)New Credit 
Limit 
02/11/2010 New Account £   150
05/11/2011 £   300 £   450
11/08/2012 £   250 £   700
29/12/2012 £   (50) £   650
SDFC says Mr R initially managed his account well and this resulted in it offering him an 
increased credit limit around  a year after the account had been opened. It offered him a 
further increase  in the credit limit the following year, however shortly afterwards Mr R started 
to face problems with his repayments. SDFC made a small reduction to Mr Rs credit  limit in 
December 2012  to reflect his outstanding balance at that time. Mr Rs account then fell into 
arrears and was sold to a third party debt collection company. A County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) was made against Mr R in relation to the debt. In 2018  Mr R repaid the debt and the 
CCJ was marked as satisfied on his credit file.
When Mr R first complained to SDFC it arranged for the third party  to reduce  Mr Rs 
outstanding balance by £120, as a gesture of goodwill,  in respect  of the administration 
charges that had been added to his account.  But it didnt agree that it had been  irresponsible  
in opening the account or in granting the subsequent increases to Mr Rs credit limit.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think SDFC had 
done anything  wrong when it opened the account or agreed the first increase in the credit  
limit. But she thought that SDFC should  have done  more checks  before agreeing  the second 
credit limit increase, and had it done  so it would have seen that Mr R was facing problems 
with his finances. So she asked SDFC to refund any interest and charges  that had been 
added to Mr Rs account since that time.
SDFC accepted  our adjudicators recommendation. It calculated that the additional interest 
Mr R had paid amounted to £28.59. Mr R requested that as part of the settlement SDFC 
should arrange for the adverse information about the account, including  the CCJ, to be 
removed from his credit file. Our adjudicator  didnt think that was appropriate as the majority 
of Mr Rs debt related to the costs of his purchases  rather than interest  and charges. And 
SDFC pointed out that since  the CCJ had been  awarded to the third party,  it wasnt  able to 
remove it.
Ref: DRN44136942So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Rs complaint.
The rules  and regulations throughout SDFCs lending relationship  with Mr R required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so SDFC had to think about whether repaying  
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Mr R. In practice 
this meant  that SDFC had to ensure that making  the payments to the credit  wouldnt cause 
Mr R undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words,  it wasnt enough for SDFC 
to simply think  about the likelihood  of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the impact  
of any repayments  on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit  application.  
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether SDFC did what  it needed  to before initially  
agreeing to Mr Rs starting  credit  limit.
Ref: DRN44136943Before opening  the account,  SDFC said that it checked Mr Rs financial position using the 
data shown on his credit file. It says that it monitored  this data throughout the time he was 
borrowing. And it says that it regularly  reviewed how he was managing his account with the 
company, both in terms of amount  and frequency of his repayments. I havent seen the 
results of the credit checks  that SDFC received. But Im not aware of any adverse 
information from that time that I think should  have caused concerns to SDFC.
I think it would have  been proportionate  for SDFCs checks  to go further than they did. It is 
difficult to establish  whether  repayments  are affordable  without an understanding  of a 
consumers income and normal expenditure. But the amounts Mr R needed to repay were 
small compared to his income.  So I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for SDFC to 
ask Mr R for the amount of information  that would  be needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable before  initially agreeing the credit  amount. I dont think  SDFC was wrong to 
initially open  Mr Rs account  with a credit limit of £150.
As I said earlier,  Mr R managed his account well in the first year. And SDFC says that there 
was nothing of concern  apparent from its credit  checks. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for it to increase his credit limit about  a year later. As before I think SDFC might  have wanted 
to ask Mr R a bit more about  his income and his expenditure. But I dont  think  checks  of that 
sort would have led to a different decision about  the credit limit increase.
But like our adjudicator  I think that SDFC should have gathered more information before 
agreeing the second credit limit increase in August  2012. Shortly before that increase Mr R 
had started to show the first signs of some  financial  problems having failed to make a 
payment that was due. And if SDFC  had dug a bit deeper  into Mr Rs finances it would have 
seen that he was borrowing from other  short  term lenders, and was facing a reduction  in his 
normal income. I dont think that SDFC should  have allowed Mr R to increase his borrowing 
from this point onwards.  
Mr Rs account fell into arrears shortly after this point. I can see that SDFC did agree  two 
repayment plans  with Mr R, but he failed to make the necessary payments on them. And 
I think that it was reasonable for SDFC to continue to collect  the monies that it had lent to 
Mr R. So when it decided that it could no longer make progress on those collection activities  
I think it was reasonable  for SDFC to transfer Mr Rs account to the third party debt 
collection company.
As I said earlier SDFC has calculated that from the time of the second credit limit increase 
Mr R incurred interest charges of just over £28. And the administration  charges it has 
already refunded to Mr Rs account amounted to £120. Taken together  those form only a 
small part of the outstanding  balance  that was transferred  to the third party.  So even if those 
charges hadnt  been added, I dont think it likely  that Mr R would have repaid the debt that 
was owing. So I cannot conclude the CCJ that was granted to the third party was as a direct 
result of the credit limit increase  it was much  more a result  of Mr Rs spending on his 
account and his failure to make the repayments that were due on that spending. 
In summary  I dont think SDFC was wrong to open  the account  with the initial  credit  limit, or 
increase that limit in 2011. But SDFC should have applied the further increase to the credit 
limit in August  2012. SDFC needs to put things right.
putting things right
Ref: DRN44136944SDFC should refund the additional interest  that it added to Mr Rs account as a result of the 
second credit limit increase it applied in August 2012. SDFC should add interest  of 8% 
simple a year on any refunded interest  from the date Mr Rs account was repaid to the date 
of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs  requires SDFC to take off tax from this interest. 
SDFC must  give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I dont consider the second credit limit increase to be the root cause of any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to this account. I therefore dont require 
SDFC to take any steps to amend  Mr Rs credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct  Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4413694