K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) misled  her as to the amount of a 
refund she could expect  to receive  on cancellation of her guaranteed  asset protection (GAP) 
policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
background
When Mrs S bought a car in May 2017  she also bought a GAP  policy  for £499.  In July2018  
Mrs S was told that the underwriter of her policy had been made bankrupt. Lloyds  wrote  to 
her in August to say that it would offer a replacement policy with the same cover  as her 
previous policy. That replacement policy would be paid for by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). It told her that if she didn't accept that policy and let it know  
before 10 September 2018,  then the FSCS would consider paying her any refund due on the 
basis of the original premium she paid.  But if she cancelled the replacement  policy  after 
September 2018 Lloyds would calculate any refund due based  on the amount the FSCS 
paid Lloyds for it.
In February 2019  Mrs S cancelled her policy. She was disappointed  with the refund Lloyds 
paid. She said it had misled her to believe she would still be entitled to a refund based on the 
original purchase price of the policy.
Mrs S brought her complaint about that to us. Our investigator didn't think  Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. Mrs S didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mrs S paid around £499 for her initial policy.  The FSCS  paid Lloyds around  £116  for the 
policy that replaced it, which was considerably less than the amount Mrs S paid for her initial 
policy. 
Mrs S cancelled her policy after 10 September 2018. And when  Lloyds calculated  the 
premium refund due it did so based  on the premium the FSCS paid of roughly £116.  Mrs S 
thinks that Lloyds  misled her into believing that any refund would be based  on the original 
policy premium of £499. But I don't think Lloyds did mislead her.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs S in August 2018. It said it had provided a replacement policy but if 
Mrs S didn't  want to accept it she could cancel it before 10 September 2018. And if she 
decided to do that the letter explained that:
you may be able to claim compensation from the FSCS in respect  of the premium  you 
originally paid for your [previous underwriters] Insurance policy .
I think thats clear that if she cancelled  the policy before 10 September  the FSCS would 
consider paying  a refund based on the original  premium  price. I note that the letter says that 
Mrs S may  rather  than will be able to claim compensation.  But I don't find that misleading.  I 
Ref: DRN48455702think the letter is saying  that it would be for the FSCS to make  the decision about  whether 
any refund  was due and not Lloyds. And in those circumstances it wouldn't  be appropriate 
for Lloyds  to guarantee that the FSCS would pay a refund. Thats  because  that wasn't  
Lloyds decision to make  and there could be circumstances,  for example where a claim on a 
policy had already been made, where no such refund was due. So I think it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to say that Mrs S may be able to make a claim.
Mrs S added that Lloyds  letter went on to say that if she cancelled  her policy after 
September 2018 then Lloyds would pay a pro rata refund, but it didn't give the cost of the 
premium that refund  would be based on. As such  she says that Lloyds led her to believe 
that the refund would be based on the original premium. 
But I don't  think  thats a fair interpretation of the letter. What the letter  actually says is that 
any refund  would be based on the amount that has been paid on your behalf by the FSCS 
to secure the policy.  It added that that cost was shown  on the policy  schedule  which  was 
enclosed. And the policy  schedule  showed that the FSCS had paid Lloyds roughly £116  for 
the policy. So I think thats clear that if Mrs S cancelled her policy  after 10 September  2018 
any premium would be based on the £116 premium the FSCS paid to Lloyds.  It doesn't  in 
any way imply  that a refund after 10 September 2018 would be based on the original 
premium price. So I don't agree that Lloyds misled Mrs S.
Mrs S also complained that shed been told that the cover the replacement policy offered 
would be the same as the previous policy. And as she received a cancellation refund based 
on a premium different  to the original policy that wasn't the case. But the cover a policy  
provides refer to the risks it insures and the liabilities  that might arise  from that. The terms of 
refund on a policys cancellation  aren't  an insured  risk and don't  form part of its cover. And 
as I've explained  before,  Lloyds told Mrs S that there would be a difference  in calculation 
dependent on the date the cancellation request  was made. So, in terms of cancellation,  I 
don't think  Lloyds did anything to mislead  Mrs S that her position  would be the same as for 
the policy it replaced. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4845570