K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains about outstanding issues relating to a subsidence claim she made under her 
home insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA)  at the end of 2017. 
background
Ms F made  a claim under her RSA home insurance  policy for subsidence damage to her 
house. Loss adjusters  were appointed  and some point shortly  after she was moved into 
alternative accommodation (AA) and her belongings placed in storage. In December 2017, 
following some  repairs carried out by RSAs contractors, Ms F was able to move back  into 
her home. When returning her belongings,  RSAs  appointed removers damaged the heating 
thermostat. 
Shortly after moving home, one of RSAs contractors accidentally caused  Ms Fs heating  to 
fail causing her to be without heating for 3 weeks over the Christmas and new year period. 
Ms F told RSAs loss adjusters immediately about the issue and they logged the claim under 
the home emergency cover provided  by the policy. An engineer was sent out but he wasnt 
qualified to work with gas boilers. Despite repeated chasing from Ms F there was a delay 
whilst another engineer  was sent out. AA was authorised  but not arranged. Due to being 
without heating in very cold weather Ms F stayed with friends for some  of the time and 
booked herself into a hotel for a few days when  no AA was arranged  for her. Ultimately,    
Ms F arranged for her own plumber to fix the heating so she could return home.  
On unpacking  her possessions Ms F found that some of them we damaged. She also found 
that there  was damage caused  to her home by RSAs contractors. This included  damage to 
her carpets and wooden  floors, her television  and steam iron. 
Ms F complained to RSA about all these  issues.  She said she wanted  them  fixed  and she 
said she wanted her hotel and plumbers bills paid and her television, steam  iron and flooring 
replaced. She also said some of her lights had been  damaged  by RSAs contactors and that 
there were some snagging works  still to be undertaken. Ms F said shed like some  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  the shortcomings in RSAs service  had 
caused her. 
RSA said there was a policy limit under  the home emergency section of Ms Fs policy.  It said 
it had been wrong  to authorise AA because  Ms Fs home wasnt  uninhabitable. But it said it 
would pay out up to the limit but not beyond. It paid Ms F £1,382.40 towards her hotel bill. It 
paid her £150 for distress and inconvenience caused. RSA also said it had spoken to the 
loss adjuster about the items damaged during  the delivery of Ms Fs possessions from 
storage. It said he was in the process  of preparing an offer of settlement  in relation to the 
items concerned. 
RSA offered to send  out its agent  to review the carpet damage. It also asked Ms F to 
arrange for the television to be inspected and to provide a report  into the cause of damage. It 
said that if the report identified that the damage  could potentially  have been caused by its 
removal agents then it would consider repair/replacement. It also said it would consider 
reimbursing Ms F for the cost of obtaining such a report.  
RSAs agent inspected the carpets  and wood flooring  in June 2018 and recommended  
replacement. The inspection report produced said, waiting PH decision on how to proceed.  
PH would like a cash  settlement figure  first. 
Ref: DRN41715922In August  2018,  Ms F complained to this service. Our adjudicator looked into her complaint 
and recommended that it be upheld. He thought RSA should reimburse Ms F for the 
outstanding accommodation costs, her plumbers bill, replacing her iron and her television 
and to pay for the inspection report on her television. He also said it should arrange  to have 
her carpet replaced and wood flooring repaired as recommended by its agent. And the 
lighting damaged  during  the repairs should  also be replaced. He said Ms F had obtained a 
quote for £612  for this work and that RSA reimburse her for it upon proof it had been  
completed. He also said all outstanding snagging works should be completed.  Our 
adjudicator recommended  that interest  at this services usual rates  be paid in respect of AA 
costs and the plumbers bill. Finally he thought RSA should pay Ms F compensation of 
£1,500 for the distress and inconvenience its poor handling of her claim had caused her. 
Ms F accepted our adjudicators findings  but RSA didnt. It said it didnt agree to pay the 
plumbers invoice. It said the damage  to the iron had never  been  mentioned  previously. RSA 
said if Ms F thought the iron had been damaged by the removal agents then she should 
claim against them. It said itd never  seen  a report about the damaged television but it would 
consider repair/replacement if the report indicated  itd been damaged during transit. It said 
itd agreed to replace the stair carpet and asked its agents to inspect the damaged  floor in 
the dining room.  It said any damage  to the lighting was unrelated to the claim. Finally it said 
its contractors had tried to contact Ms F about the outstanding snagging items but she 
wasnt responding. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in August 2019. I also 
upheld the complaint but for slightly different  reasons to our adjudicator.  I made the following 
provisional findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think that this complaint should  be 
upheld. 
Despite numerous  requests  from this service since Ms F made her complaint, only very 
limited documentation  has been  provided  by RSA. Ive seen no claim file, complaint file or 
loss adjuster file. All I have seen are a few emails  between  Ms F and RSA/its loss adjusters 
most of which have been provided by Ms F herself. This means Im unable to accurately 
assess what happened when, what requests  were  made, who promised what and who failed 
to act appropriately. My consideration  of this complaint is therefore entirely confined  to the 
few copy email exchanges Ive seen along  with the invoices  provided by Ms F. This is 
despite our adjudicator asking RSA for a timeline  of what  clearly is a very complicated  series 
of events and repeatedly  leaving messages asking to discuss  the complaint that have gone 
unreturned. 
So Im satisfied that RSA has been given every opportunity to respond  to all aspects of      
Ms Fs complaint in full. It is only reasonable, when an insurer  cant  or wont send in 
information we require, that it should  be prepared for us to decide  a case  without  it. So it is 
with reference  to only very limited evidence that I have had to base this decision.
For ease of reference, Ill address each issue under the sub-headings below.
 
Ref: DRN41715923claim for alternative accommodation costs
RSA has said there  is a policy limit for home emergency claims of £1,500. I assume that it 
paid for the engineers visits out of this amount and that this explains why it says there  is 
only £1,382.40  left to contribute towards  the AA costs Ms F incurred out of her own pocket 
when RSA said it would arrange it for her and failed  to do so. But I dont think it was fair for 
RSA to consider  this damage as a separate home  emergency claim. It arose  out to the 
negligence of RSAs  contractor and shouldve been dealt with as such. 
Ive seen an email exchange between Ms F and RSA where AA was approved.  That wasnt  
then arranged. So, I dont  think, after a week without heating over Christmas  coupled with 
RSAs failure to provide the AA itd promised (or send the right engineer  out) that Ms F 
unreasonably checked herself into a hotel for 4 nights. 
For the reason  Ive given above,  I dont  agree  with RSAs point about having already  paid up 
to the policy  limit for AA costs. Its unclear to me (due to the lack of available  evidence) why 
damage caused by a contractor associated with the subsidence claim was logged as a home 
emergency claim. On the face of it, doing so seems  to be an error. This means the policy  
limit for that cover should not, in all fairness,  apply.  In any event, as RSA made  no comment 
in response to our adjudicators recommendations regarding the payment of AA, I assume it 
is in agreement the hotel bill should be fully reimbursed. 
The hotel bill came  to £1,634.23. Ive seen  the invoice. Whilst our adjudicator  thought that 
RSA should reimburse  Ms F for the full amount (which she said remained outstanding) Ive 
seen an email from RSA saying it transferred £1,382.40 to Ms F. So it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to ignore that. So I think RSA should pay Ms F the balance between  what 
she paid the hotel and what its already reimbursed to her. I calculate  that to be £251.83. 
Interest should  be added  to this amount at this services normal  rate of 8% simple a year 
from the date Ms F settled the bill to the date RSA pays my award.  
It follows that a separate home  emergency claim should not have been logged  against      
Ms Fs policy  or on any external claims database. It also follows  that these costs shouldnt  
be added  to the overall cost of the subsidence claim.
plumbers invoice
From the limited information available it seems that RSA didnt send out an engineer who 
could repair  Ms Fs heating. It looks to me like Ms F waited about  10 days  before contracting 
an engineer of her own to fix it so she could move back  home. Whilst I appreciate obtaining  
contractors in the Christmas and new year period can be difficult  I dont think  the service 
(particularly as RSA claims it was being dealt with as a home emergency) it gave Ms F was 
acceptable. So I dont  think  it was unreasonable of her  in these circumstances  to 
eventually decide  to arrange  her own contractor to restore her central heating. 
Ive seen the invoice from the plumber Ms F engaged and that came to £840. I think  its 
reasonable that RSA reimburse Ms F for this amount together  with interest at this services  
usual rate from the date Ms F paid her plumber to the date RSA pays  my award. I note that 
RSA didnt dispute liability for this in response to our adjudicators recommendation that it be 
paid. 
Ref: DRN41715924television
Ms F says her television was damaged  by RSAs removal  agents. I can see this was 
mentioned by Ms F to the loss adjuster by email on 27 January 2018 and to RSA in an email 
dated 30 March  2018. On 4 May 2018  RSA wrote to Ms F and said itd discussed the matter 
with the removal  agents (amongst other items purportedly damaged by them). It said it 
hadnt caused the damage Ms F had reported. In the circumstances, RSA suggested  Ms F 
obtain an inspection  report  which it was prepared to review. It said that should the report 
identify the damage  could  potentially have been  caused by the removal  agents in transit  then 
it would  consider a repair/replacement. It also said itd consider reimbursing any costs  
associated with obtaining the report.
Its unclear to me why it took RSA three  months  after Ms F first notified  it about this damage  
to even discuss it with the removal agents.  But Ive seen the report  Ms F obtained. I can see 
the make, model and serial  number of the television  and that the repairer  has said:  to 
dismantle and replace plasma display  panel assembly. Equipment is beyond satisfactory 
repair, due to lack of spares availability.  Labour£150. 
Our adjudicator recommended  RSA pay to replace the television  (£2,699) and reimburse   
Ms F £150 for the cost of obtaining  the report. 
In response, RSA said Ms F should  send the report to the loss adjuster to review. 
Whilst that seems reasonable, due to the absence of any file for me to review,  I dont know if 
Ms F has already done this. Nor do I know, if she did, what the loss adjuster thought.  All I 
know is that the television was damaged beyond repair, Ms F attributed  that damage to the 
removal agents and that she notified the loss adjuster  about  it in January 2018. Given  the 
other issues Ms F has experienced,  Im minded to make RSA pay to replace Ms Fs 
television with an equivalent  model  and to reimburse  her for the report  she obtained.  Thats 
because, given the timing of when she first notified  the loss adjuster about the damage,  and 
the fact it had been in transit with its agents, I dont  think, on balance, its unreasonable  to 
conclude the television was damaged in the manner  alleged.  
But given this decision is only provisional,  Im prepared to let RSA have the opportunity  to 
comment on the matter  once its seen the inspection report which  Ive asked to be included  
with this provisional decision.   
steam iron
  
Similar to the television, theres little information  available for me to base my decision on. Ms 
F says the agents  damaged it. Ive seen a picture of the cracked casing. I dont know if that 
makes the iron unusable or not. Our adjudicator thought RSA should pay to replace it. 
I can see Ms F drew it to the loss adjusters attention in January and February 2018. That 
being the case, it is somewhat baffling to me why, in response  to our adjudicators view, 
RSA said it had never been  mentioned  before. It also said that if Ms F thinks  the damage 
was caused by the removal  agents   which she does  then she should claim against them. 
As RSA is well aware, third parties  appointed during the course of a claim act as its agents. 
As such,  it is responsible for the actions of the third parties it appoints. So I think its 
unreasonable to expect  a policyholder to pursue a third party  for recovery in such 
circumstances. RSA should pay to replace Ms Fs steam iron with an equivalent model.  
Should it wish to do so it can then seek recovery from the removal agents  itself. 
Ref: DRN41715925carpets and floors  
RSA has already assessed that the lounge, hall, stairs, landing and bedroom carpet/wooden  
floors and determined  they require replacement  or restoration due to damage  attributed  to 
the removal agents. Ms F told our adjudicator in February this year that this had still to be 
done. Not unreasonably,  she has now obtained her own quotes for this work. Her quote for 
the stairs,  landing and bedroom carpet came to £2,539.54 and to restore the wooden floors 
£2,347.71.
Ive seen the report prepared by the company RSA sent to assess  the flooring in June 2018 
which recommends it be repaired and replaced.  Theres a comment  in the report  that Ms F 
was interested  in finding out what RSA would pay to cash settle for all of it. I cant see that 
RSA ever acted on the recommendations of the report. Due to the lack of available 
evidence, its unclear to me why that is. I can only base my decision on the evidence  
presented. In response to this provisional decision,  I want to know  from RSA what  practical  
steps its taken to arrange to have Ms F carpets replaced and floors restored. In the absence  
of that information  RSA should be aware that I intend to make it pay Ms F a sum equivalent  
to the two quotes shes obtained as referred to above. Ms F has waited long enough  to have 
her floors restored and, if RSA wont arrange  to do so without any further delay, it should pay 
Ms F enough to do so herself. 
As a footnote, I note that RSAs only comment on the flooring issue as addressed by our 
adjudicator was to say that the dining room floor was due to be inspected and it will chase 
the loss adjusters about doing  so. This is the only reference Ive seen to the dining room  
floor. Im not sure if Ms F has alleged the floor is damaged. Any clarity either party can 
provide on this issue before I issue my final decision would be welcome. 
damaged lighting
Ms F says her lights were  damaged. RSA says any lighting damage is unrelated to the 
claim. Ms F raised it the issue of the damaged lighting  with the loss adjuster as soon as she 
moved back into her house  in December 2017, and again at the end of January 2018.  She 
asked if she could please get an electrician  to look at it. Ms F says the loss adjuster/project 
manager came and looked at it and said hed come back with a quote but that didnt 
materialise. Ms F obtained  her own quote  from an electrician in April this year.  Hes quoted 
her £612  to do the necessary work. 
Given the timing of when  Ms F first notified  the loss adjuster about this issue  immediately 
she moved back home  and given the lack of any evidence to the contrary, Im minded to 
make  RSA pay for the lighting on the grounds  that the damage was most likely caused by 
its contractors.  RSA has had enough  opportunity to assess the damage/comment/carry out a 
repair. I dont think  in the absence of any evidence that the damage wasnt  caused  as 
alleged  its fair to make  Ms F wait any longer  before having  the lighting repaired.  RSA 
should cash settle this amount so that Ms F is free to arrange for her own contractor to 
attend and carry  out the necessary works.  
snagging issues
Should any of these remain outstanding, RSA should arrange  without  further delay for them 
to be attended  to. In response to this provisional  decision  I want  to know what practical steps 
RSA has taken to arrange  for any outstanding snagging issues to be addressed. Ive seen 
Ref: DRN41715926RSAs comments that Ms F is unhappy with the contractor RSA wants to use but, as our 
adjudicator told RSA, Ms F has said on several  occasions that she has no such issue and is 
indeed happy  with the proposed contractor. 
compensation
To date, RSA has paid Ms F compensation of £150. Given  the levels of poor service Ms F 
has endured, I dont think thats fair. Our adjudicator recommended  that RSA pay Ms F a 
further £1,500.  And I think that amount more  fairly  reflects the level of trouble and upset    
Ms F has been put though  since December  2017.  She spent that Christmas and new year 
without heating and without AA (until she arranged  it herself). She had to arrange for her 
own plumber to fix her heating when RSA failed  to arrange to do so and has had to chase 
RSA about the items damaged by its removal agents when it returned her possessions to 
her home. She is still waiting for many  of the outstanding issues  caused by RSAs own 
agents to be addressed. So I think £1,500 is more reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. 
RSA replied to my provisional  decision to say it accepted my findings and was working with 
its loss adjuster to get outstanding matters sorted  for Ms F. 
Ms F replied to my provisional decision to say she agreed with most of it but wanted to clarify 
a few points. These were:
The quotes she got for the lighting and the flooring were done about  a year ago. If the 
quotes had increased  since then RSA should  be made to cover the difference  for both. 
Alternatively she was happy for RSAs contractors to repair the lights. 
That the compensation  amount of £1,500  that I recommended RSA paid her didnt reflect 
the level of distress and inconvenience shed been  put to. She thought a figure of £5,000 
more fairly reflected  the trouble and upset  shed been caused.  She thought this figure 
would act as a deterrent to RSA from treating other customers  in a similar way;
That she was enormously relieved to finally have a resolution  to her complaint  and felt it 
had been dealt with by me fairly. She was grateful for all the hard work put in by this 
service on her complaint;
The complaint was returned  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA hasnt responded to say what practical steps its taken to arrange to have Ms Fs 
carpets replaced and floors restored. That being the case I think  it should pay Ms F a sum 
equivalent to the two quotes she obtained as referred to above.   
The quotes  Ms F supplied  in relation  to restoring/replacing her floors and carpets were 
produced at the end of March 2019.  The electricians quote is dated  from the same  time. 
That means sixth months have elapsed since these were produced. It is of course possible 
that the prices  Ms F was quoted could have  increased during  the intervening months. But 
Ive thought about what she said and Im not minded  to agree with Ms F that RSA should pay 
any increase that has occurred. 
Ref: DRN41715927I think, in the interests of fairness  to parties,  this complaint (and everything to do with the 
claim itself) needs to be brought  to a final resolution. It has been over six weeks  since my 
provisional decision was issued and it was open to Ms F during that time to ask her 
contractors if their prices needed  revising. She could then have  submitted them to me to 
consider prior to my issuing this final decision.  As she hasnt done so I dont think  it would be 
fair for me now to ask RSA to wait for her to do so. RSA hasnt agreed to that. It has agreed 
to pay the invoices as presented and I think, in order to bring this matter  to a conclusion 
now, it is only reasonable that it do so. 
The points Ms F has made  about  the amount of compensation  I recommended  was paid 
largely repeated  those  shed made  already  and which had been considered  by me when 
deciding what compensation RSA should  fairly  be made to pay. So her comments  werent 
new evidence. As Id already considered all the points she made previously before 
recommending RSA pay £1,500 compensation Ive not been persuaded by what Ms F said 
in her response to my provisional  decision to change my mind. 
It is also worth stating  that the amount I recommended is consistent with awards this service 
has made in similar circumstances and is, I think, fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This service isnt the industry regulator  and isnt here to punish or fine financial businesses. 
It is here to look into the circumstances  of individual complaints only. On balance,  I think  
compensation of £1,500 fairly and reasonably reflects the trouble and upset Ms F was 
caused and is line with this services approach to compensation generally. 
For the sake of completeness I note that RSA didnt comment  on the television inspection 
report. As I said in my provisional decision, if it failed to do so I thought it should pay to 
replace the television and reimburse Ms F for obtaining the report. As RSA has accepted  my 
provisional findings in full, Im pleased, in so doing,  that it agreed to do so. 
Neither party responded to my request for clarification  about the dining room floor so I make 
no finding in that respect.  
Im pleased to note that RSA is working  with its loss adjuster to make  sure all outstanding 
issues are resolved. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc to do the following: 
Pay Ms F £251.83 being the outstanding balance  of the AA costs she incurred over new 
year 2017/2018. Interest*  at this services usual  rate of 8% simple a year should be 
added to this amount  from the date Ms F paid the hotel bill to the date of settlement;
Pay Ms Fs plumbers invoice of £840  for repairing her central heating damaged by its 
agents. Interest  at this services  usual rate of 8% simple  a year should  be added  to this 
amount from the date Ms F paid the plumbers bill to the date settlement is paid;
Pay to replace Ms Fs television with an equivalent model and to reimburse her £150  for 
the inspection  report she had prepared;
Pay to replace Ms Fs steam iron with an equivalent model;
Pay Ms F a sum of £4,887.25 (being  the sum of the two quotes of £2,539.54 and 
£2,347.71) so that she can arrange  to have her carpets and floors replaced and restored 
herself;
Ref: DRN41715928Pay Ms F £612 so she can arrange for her own contractor to repair her damaged 
lighting;
Arrange without delay  for all outstanding  snagging issues to be completed;
Remove the home emergency claim from Ms Fs claims record and any internal and 
external databases;
Pay Ms F compensation of £1,500 for the trouble and upset  as described above  
caused to her since December 2017.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should  tell Ms F how much its taken off. It should also give Ms F a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
 
Ref: DRN4171592