K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited mishandled  a withdrawal  from her 
pension and made incorrect tax deductions.  
Background
Mrs P has a pension policy with Aviva. In early 2018  she contacted Aviva to withdraw the 
money she held in cash. She was sent an illustration for a full withdrawal in error. She told 
Aviva this was wrong and a corrected illustration was sent. This was accepted by Mrs P, but 
a payment for a full withdrawal was processed. Immediately Aviva realised this was wrong 
and the payment was cancelled.
Mrs P complained and Aviva sought to make a manual payment to rectify  the matter.  It 
reversed the crystallisation event so that the error  had no impact on Mrs Ps underlying 
funds. However, it deducted  tax and it also included an incorrect  tax code on the P60 it 
issued. It apologised  and paid Mrs P £200.
She brought  her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our adjudicators 
who recommenced Aviva pay her £400 in total.  He investigated what had happened and 
concluded that Aviva had done all that it should to rectify the errors.  He also liaised with 
Aviva to assist Mrs P making a full withdrawal  as this is what  she indicated she later wished 
to do. 
Mrs P didnt accept that the payment of £200  was compensation. She said Aviva  had 
deposited an unsolicited  amount in her account and she hadnt accepted this as 
compensation. She hadnt been able to withdraw her money to make a greater profit 
elsewhere. Later she added that Aviva had made a further mistake in deducting tax for the 
revised payment.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is regrettable that an initial mistake was made with Mrs Ps request being taken to be for 
total withdrawal. This was compounded  by a second  member  of staff misunderstanding  the 
request and Aviva has since  made efforts to rectify the errors.
When a business  makes a mistake  I would expect it to put it right as soon as is possible. I 
believe this is what Aviva has done and I note Mrs P has praised the work of several 
members of staff for their efforts. I can see that it has confirmed that the withdrawal wasnt  
crystallised and Mrs Ps funds were  not affected  by the error. It made a manual payment and 
to some extent the process to remedy the error  has been a little convoluted, but I believe it 
has led to the right result. 
There has been some confusion over the tax position. Mrs Ps income  in the relevant years  
was less that her personal allowance so she wasnt liable to pay tax. However, Aviva is 
obliged to follow the tax rules overseen by HM Revenue  & Customs. Aviva  is required to 
operate PAYE on the payments it makes. This is a cumulative system and a persons tax 
free personal allowance is divided  into monthly  amounts. 
Ref: DRN44808982The latest payment  was made in December,  nine months into the tax year and so Aviva  
could only set 9/12 worth of her allowance against  the payment which meant  it was obliged 
to deduct a small sum of tax. I dont  consider  Aviva  has done anything wrong in this regard. 
It did make  an error on the form P60 by showing an incorrect code but I understand  this has 
been addressed.
I have noted Mrs Ps comments on compensation. Where a business makes a mistake and it 
cause distress or inconvenience  I would expect it to pay compensation. One of my roles  is to 
decide how much  I think is appropriate  taking into account the individual  circumstances of 
the complaint  and the events which led up to it. I can see that the errors have caused her 
some distress and inconvenience and she didnt  have access to her money as expected. 
However, I believe Aviva has sought to address  the problem. Therefore I think  that the sum 
suggested by our adjudicator is fair and reasonable. 
I would add that I am not aware Mrs P has made any financial loss. I appreciate she says 
she may have achieved a greater  return investing elsewhere, but it also possible she may 
have made  a smaller  return. Therefore, I dont consider I need make any award in this 
regard. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  
to pay Mrs P compensation  of £400  in total to include  the £200 paid earlier. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my 
decision before  29 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4480898