K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his pet insurance  policy  claim and that 
he was mis-sold the policy.  My references  to Aviva include its agents
background
In August  2017  Mr B bought a pet insurance  policy for his two dogs. Aviva is the insurer of 
the policy. Mr B brought the policy  through  a broker. He says he previously had pet 
insurance with another insurer.
In May 2018  one of Mr Bs dogs had treatment and he made a claim. Mr Bs vet said the dog 
was treated for peri-vulval dermatitis with urinary incontinence.
Aviva declined the claim. It said the evidence from Mr Bs vet showed  the dog had the same 
condition in 2015, before  the policy was taken  out. Aviva also asked an independent  vet for 
their opinion and they agreed  the condition was pre-existing. The policy  doesnt  cover pre-
existing medical conditions.
Mr B complained that his dogs medical condition in May 2018 wasn't pre-existing, and hes 
in dispute with his vet about that matter. He'd asked  Aviva for the identity of the independent 
vet so he could  check if they were  qualified to give an opinion and independent, but it 
refused. Mr B also said when he bought the policy he was assured that as he was moving 
from one life cover policy to another the existing life cover would be the same. 
Mr B wants  the claim paid, an apology that hed been mis-sold the policy  and details of the 
vet Aviva used for an opinion.
Our investigator explained that wed need  to look at Mr Bs mis-sale complaint separately.  
Also Mr B would need to raise his concerns about  Avivas response to his subject access  
request with the Information Commissioners Office. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had fairly  declined the claim 
Mr B doesnt  agree  and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
in 2018 his dog was taken to his vet to be treated for an ulcerated vagina, not acute 
dermatitis and she wasnt suffering from urinary incontinence when he took her to the 
vet. He thought  the latter  was caused  by his vet wrongly prescribing his dog a steroid 
which was unsuitable given her ulcerative condition
his vet notes are inaccurate and dont reflect the discussions he had with the vet
his dog has recently been diagnosed  with a new medical condition which with the 
steroids and vet examination could have caused  his dogs incontinence at the 2018 
examination.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator correctly  explained that Mr Bs mis-sale complaint will need to be 
considered separately  and weve  set up a mis-sale complaint. Shes  also correctly told Mr B 
Ref: DRN45653762that the Information Commissioners Office, rather than this service,  is most appropriate to 
consider his concerns about Aviva's  response to his subject access  request.
This decision is about whether Aviva fairly and reasonably declined Mr Bs claim, and I think 
it did. I dont uphold the complaint about the decline of the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy is a life policy.  Like many pet insurance policies (including life policies) it doesnt 
cover treatment for pre-existing medical conditions, and the policy is clear about that.
The policy defines  pre-existing  medical conditions as:
a) An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical  signs before your 
pets cover  started, or
b)An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis  or clinical signs  
as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
c) An injury or illness that is caused  by, relates  to, or results from, an injury, incident, 
illness or clinical sign your pet had before  its cover  started. No matter  where  the 
injury, illness  or clinical signs are noticed  or happen  in, or on, your pets  body 
Mr B says much of his vet notes are incorrect and dont accurately represent their discussion 
or the facts. But Aviva  can fairly  and reasonably  rely on Mr Bs vets evidence  as accurate 
expert evidence unless the vet tells it the evidence contains an error  and clarifies  the correct 
position. 
In 2015, Mr Bs dog attended a vet at his usual practice. The vet notes say the dog suffered 
peri-vulval dermatitis with primary or secondary urinary leakage.  A claim was made at that 
time for acute dermatitis and urinary incontinence.
In 2016, Mr Bs dog attended the same  vet practice about a separate matter.  The vet notes  
say the vet also looked at the vulva, which was sore and the dogs previous history of urinary  
incontinence was noted.
In 2018, after the policy was taken  out, Mr Bs dog attended the same vet practice. Mr B 
says it was the first time the particular vet treated his dog, but Aviva can still fairly  take the  
vets opinion into account.. The vet notes say the dog had a bladder leak the week before 
(which Mr B denies) and she was suffering from dermatitis on her vulva  and had primary or 
secondary urinary leakage as before. 
Mr Bs vet completed the 2018 claim form giving the name of illness as reoccurrence of 
acute perineal  moist dermatitis with urinary incontinence. The vet also marked the claim 
form as yes to the dog being treated for the condition before, and yes to making  a claim for 
the treatment before.
Mr Bs vets letter dated June 2016 (but Im satisfied should read June 2018) also details the 
dogs history of incontinence  and dermatitis in 2014 and 2015 and details how the dog 
presented with the same condition in May 2018.  The letter  says:
I am of the opinion  that while the incontinence  came  first, the peri-vulval  dermatitis 
cannot be excluded  from the incontinence, and is very much due, in large  part to this 
incontinence problem.
Ref: DRN45653763I think the evidence  from Mr Bs vet gave  Aviva strong evidence that Mr Bs dog had suffered  
from urinary incontinence  and dermatitis both before and after the policy started. Aviva could 
reasonably decline  the 2018  claim using the pre-existing  condition  exclusion.
As Mr B disputed Avivas  decline it sought the opinion of an independent vet. That vet said 
the dog had acute, ulcerative peri-vulval dermatitis before and after the policy  was taken out. 
That vet agreed  with Mr Bs vet that the medical condition claimed for in 2018 was pre-
existing.
Mr B disputes that Aviva  can rely on the independent vets opinion  without  giving him all the 
vets identification  information hes asked for. Aviva has given Mr B the vets qualifications  
and on the evidence I have theres no reason why it cant  rely on that vets opinion.  But as 
Ive said, even without  the independent vets opinion Aviva had strong evidence from Mr Bs 
vet that his 2018 claim was for a pre-existing condition and it could decline the claim on that 
evidence alone.
Mr B says his dog has now been  diagnosed  with a new medical condition which may have 
been the cause of at least  some of her problems in 2018. Ive seen no vet evidence to 
confirm diagnosis of a new condition and more  importantly  no evidence  that the 2018 claim 
was due to the new medical  condition.
If Mr B can get such evidence from his vet then he should send it to Aviva who should  
reasonably assess  the new evidence.
On the evidence I have Aviva  fairly  and reasonably declined the claim.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint about  Aviva  Insurance Limiteds decline of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4565376