K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mrs M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her the MPPI.  
The MPPI was sold to Mrs M when she applied  for a further advance on her mortgage.
background 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
There has also been an administrative  issue where  the MPPI  wasnt cancelled when it 
should have been  I understand this has already been corrected by Santander, so it doesnt  
form part of this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M  so Ill 
explain the reasons  for my decision below. 
Mrs M says that she was led to think that the MPPI was mandatory  and that it was 
essential in getting a further advance on her mortgage. Mrs M was sold her MPPI policy over 
the phone, when she was applying for some  extra borrowing from Santander.  I cant know  
what was said at the time, theres  no call recording available,  and Mrs M hasnt said much  
about this either  but I dont find this unusual, businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely and I wouldnt expect Mrs M to remember in detail something that happened over 
ten years  ago. So I have to base my decision on the information I do have.
Santander has provided a script that it says was in use at the time  and this shows that the 
member of staff would be prompted  to point out that the MPPI was optional, and gain 
consent to take out. I dont know how closely this script was followed,  Mrs M had her 
mortgage with Santander since 2003, and had taken out additional  borrowing previously  all 
without taking MPPI. I can also see that Mrs Ms mortgage offer confirmed that no insurance 
was required in getting the advance. And I think that if she had been told she had to take it 
on this occasion,  then I think she wouldve questioned this at the time.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its most  likely  Santander made it clear that Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she might not remember this as it was over ten years ago.
Its likely  Santander recommended the MPPI to Mrs M so it would  have had to check that the 
MPPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example she affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. And although Mrs M was self-
Ref: DRN45986522employed at the time, her employment status wouldnt have made  it any harder for her to 
make a claim than someone who was employed. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs M about the MPPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think its likely  she chose  to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs M.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs M because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium)  but Santander didnt tell Mrs M that. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - but these points dont change  my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Santander should also pay back  to Mrs M any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander 
should also pay Mrs M 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc will pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
Ref: DRN45986523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4598652