K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mismanaged  her investment portfolio.
Background
Mr and Mrs S have  an investment management  portfolio with Barclays - their funds are held 
within individual ISA wrappers. In August 2016 Mr and Mrs S were  advised to switch  the 
investment to a new fund.
In September  2018 Mr S complained to Barclays on Mrs Ss behalf. He said Mrs S had been 
assured everything  would remain  the same when  she accepted the advice  to switch funds in 
2016, but she was receiving less income from the investment and was paying higher 
charges. Mr S wanted  Barclays  to switch Mrs Ss investment back to the original fund, 
managed by a business Ill call A.
Barclays didnt agree that Mrs S had been misled. It said A had decided to close  the fund, 
which is why Mr and Mrs S had been  invited to a review. It said theyd each accepted  the 
advice to invest in the Barclays High Income  fund and had been  made  aware this would 
result in a reduction  of income. It also said the fee structure didnt  change  and all of the fees 
had been clearly explained  in the recommendation report. Mr S referred Mrs Ss complaint  to 
our service.  He said they hadnt sought out the review.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied  A had closed the fund Mrs S 
had previously been invested  in, so it was necessary  to carry out a review of her portfolio. 
The adjudicator thought  the recommendation to switch to the Barclays  High Income fund 
was suitable as it matched Mrs Ss attitude to risk and objectives. He also thought it had 
been highlighted to Mrs S that her income would likely reduce and was satisfied  the fees 
were clearly explained.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. He maintained that Mrs S was told nothing 
would change but in fact everything changed. He thought the review was pointless.  As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint was passed  to me to make  a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it.
Mr S says Mrs S was happy with her investment performance so there was no need to 
change anything. But Ive seen evidence from A that the fund Mrs S was invested in was 
closed on 16 August 2016. So, Mrs Ss investment had to be switched following the 
announcement of the fund closure. This doesnt  appear to have been mentioned in the 
recommendation report provided  to Mrs S at the time. So, I can see why shes sceptical 
about this explanation. I think  it wouldve been  helpful for this detail to have been mentioned  
in the report. But Im still satisfied that Barclays needed to carry out a review of Mrs Ss 
investment portfolio in August 2016 due to the closure of As fund.
Mr S is unhappy because he says Mrs S was told there wouldnt be any change  in respect of 
the income derived from the investment or the fees charged. However, he says shes  
received less income and he thinks shes been charged more.
Ref: DRN47260102Ive reviewed the recommendation report,  a copy of which  was provided to Mrs S on 
9 August 2016.  This shows  Mrs Ss investment  objective was to provide income and her 
attitude to risk was now medium-low, having previously been medium-high. The adviser 
noted Mr and Mrs S were receiving around £417  per month  from their investments, which  
they werent dependent on. The report also noted  that they agreed it was a good time to 
reduce the risk associated with their investments.
The adviser recommended Mr and Mrs S switch to the Barclays  High Income  fund. Having 
considered Mrs Ss objectives  and attitude to risk, I think the recommended fund was 
suitable for her needs. This is because the report shows she was still willing to take some 
risk to achieve a higher return and because  her objective was to derive income  rather  than 
achieve capital  growth.  I also think Mrs S was made  aware  that she was likely to receive  a 
reduced income and what fees would be charged. I say this because the report notes:
I have reminded you that due to the switch of investment mandate the returns on your 
portfolio will potentially be lower  than previous due to the decreased risk in the new portfolio.
The adviser provided an estimate  of the income  Mr and Mrs S were likely to receive  (£407 
per month)  but reminded  them that the income  wasnt guaranteed as it was dependent  on 
the portfolio performance.  The charges associated were also set out in full.
Mr and Mrs S were  asked to review  the report to ensure it reflected the discussions and sign 
a form to confirm they were happy  to proceed.  Mrs S signed this on 24 August 2016.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about  Mrs S being  led to believe nothing would 
change, but I think the report clearly states the impact of the switch.  As Mrs S signed this, 
I think she was most  likely aware  of this at the time of the advice.  I appreciate Mrs S is 
unhappy with the income  shes now receiving from her investments, but Im not persuaded 
she was misled by Barclays about  the impact of switching funds.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4726010