K820x#14complaint
Mrs P brought this complaint on behalf  of herself  and the estate of her late husband, Mr P. 
However, Ill refer mainly to Mrs and Mr P throughout  this decision. 
She says Lloyds Bank PLC,  trading  at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester mis-sold her 
and her late husband a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy with a mortgage. Ill refer 
to Lloyds to keep  things consistent.
background and summary to complaint
It seems  they bought  the policy in 1987  at the same time as taking  out a joint-mortgage.  We 
dont know that much about  what happened  because not much paperwork remains  available  
after so long. So, Ive made some reasonable assumptions based on my knowledge  and 
experience. Ive also referred to a library copy of a Lloyds PPI policy  document issued  as 
close to 1987  as we have  records  for - I think the rules would have been broadly the same.  
Its likely  they applied  for the mortgage  and PPI policy in a branch. Mrs P couldnt say much 
about the PPI policy, but Lloyds says it provided cover for both Mrs and Mr P, for accident, 
sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay 
around £73 a month towards Mrs and Mr Ps mortgage balance  in the event of a successful  
claim. At the time of the sale, it cost £5.25  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs and Mr P worked in catering and as a driver,  respectively. She says she 
wasnt entitled to any job-related sick pay, whereas Mr P was. They apparently  were  in good 
health at the time of the sale and had no other financial means available to them.  Ive 
considered all their circumstances with care. The mortgage started  in 1987 and ended in 
2002.
Mrs and Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs and Mr Ps representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs and Mr 
Ps representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs and Mr P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs and Mr P and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN47279412The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs and Mr P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1987 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after Lloyds sold the PPI. Prior to this there were fewer requirements  on a business  when 
selling insurance  such as this. But Lloyds doesnt appear to have considered  Mrs and Mr Ps 
complaint any differently   it seems to me it has considered the sale of PPI against these 
later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mrs and Mr P in a more favourable position, I 
have taken into account the later industry  codes  of practice in considering  what  I think  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN47279413The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering this complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs and Mr P with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs and 
Mr P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mrs and Mr P 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mrs P and Lloyds, 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs and Mr P know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN47279414Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Because theres no relevant 
paperwork left showing they were given a choice,  Ive looked at everything else we have 
available  and businesses wouldnt be expected  to keep  all these types  of records  for so 
long. Nevertheless, I can see PPI was described on Mrs and Mr Ps mortgage application as 
a voluntary policy which they could choose  if they wanted to. Therefore, taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs and Mr P knew  the policy was optional and they 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds concedes that advice was probably  provided during this PPI sale. This means it had 
to advise Mrs and Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs and Mr P. It seems Mrs and Mr P cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mrs and Mr Ps financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether they would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mrs or Mr P 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs and Mr P given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs and Mr P, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-They both met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs and Mr P had a need for the policy   it seems likely that their ability to continue 
to meet  their mortgage repayments would  have been put under strain if either was 
not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for work-related (or state)  
sickness benefits they may have had.
-Mrs and Mr P had a need for the policy   they had nothing  else they could 
reasonably fall back on. The policy would  have helped  Mrs and Mr P manage the 
consequences if they were unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs and Mr P. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr P. 
There was nothing  about Mrs and Mr Ps employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And neither had any pre-existing medical  
Ref: DRN47279415conditions that could affect their ability to claim. Nor did there seem to be additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for it still provided useful  cover given Mrs and Mr Ps circumstances.
-While, possibly, there might have  been  limits to the cover  provided by the policy 
(including: the any similar  gainful  occupation  condition, the requirement  that either 
policyholder be disabled or unemployed for 60 days before they could make a claim 
and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim), the policy still provided valuable cover given:
The policyholders circumstances, including their employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted. Ive also considered the likelihood that if one part wasnt 
working, the other would still have a job; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs and Mr P be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs and Mr P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs and Mr P were most probably  given a broad 
description of what the policy was intended  to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their 
payments if they were  unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mrs and 
Mr P would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs and Mr P agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs and Mr P, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr P all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN47279416In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs and Mr Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs and Mr 
Ps. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs and Mr Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs and Mr P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mrs P has suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes 
and standards  of good industry  practice  applicable  to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs and Mr P? To what extent  did Mrs 
and Mr P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs and Mr 
P. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs 
and Mr P suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mrs and Mr P would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs and Mr P, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs and Mr P suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs and Mr P would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mrs P says they wouldnt have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs and Mr P had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
Ref: DRN47279417suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they was getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs and Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs and Mr P knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cant say Lloyds told them the exact premium at the point Mrs and 
Mr P applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Mrs and Mr P would have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs and Mr P would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs and Mr P would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mrs and Mr Ps 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy probably excluded claims relating  to medical conditions that they knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy may have  limited, and in some  situations, excluded  unemployment cover if 
the policyholders  werent permanent employees;
The possible requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  the 
policyholders be unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified them  to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs and Mr P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest they wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  they didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I still think  they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN47279418Nor do I think the policy would have excluded  back or mental health conditions  or place any 
additional restrictions or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on 
those grounds than would have applied  to any other  disability claim. And I think  its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr P would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mrs and Mr P had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs and Mr P that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs and Mr P would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs and Mr P be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs and Mr P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help manage the consequences if they were made redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs and 
Mr P would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs and Mr Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. Im satisfied, 
applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption  is rebutted  in the 
particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs and Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs and 
Ref: DRN47279419Mr P found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would not have  
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately 
departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I dont consider I am), I 
am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case, that it would represent fair 
compensation to put Mrs P and the estate of Mr P in the position they / it would have  been  in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs and Mr P compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr P, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1987  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs P and the late Mr Ps representative says a court 
might take if it were to find Lloyds  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs and Mr P 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs P and the estate of Mr P in a better 
position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept  or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4727941