K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made on his 
motor insurance policy  after his car was stolen. He wants it to pay his claim.
background
Mr As car was stolen  and later recovered damaged  and with the interior  partially stripped. 
Advantage investigated the claim. Mr A had both sets of keys but Advantage couldnt 
establish how the car had been stolen. Advantage said it didnt think the theft had happened 
as Mr A described, so it declined the claim. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the car could 
have been stolen without the key. He thought Advantage had reasonably  investigated the 
claim. But he didnt  think it had enough  evidence  to decline the claim. He didnt think  Mr A 
had been involved  in the theft of his own car. So he thought Advantage should pay the 
claim, with interest,  and pay Mr A £400  for his loss of use.
Advantage replied  that Mr As car didnt have any theft related damage. It also said it didnt 
have keyless entry so it couldnt be stolen without a key. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A has been  without  his car for over a year now and that hes relying  on 
family members to transport him. I can understand that this must be very frustrating for him.
Advantages repudiation of Mr As claim relies on its belief that the car could only have been 
removed with a key. So Ive considered whether it has sufficient evidence to justify this 
decision.
I can see that Mr A provided Advantage  with two keys for the car. He said there were no 
other copies.  
When Mr As car was recovered, Advantage had it inspected by an independent engineer. 
He said there were no signs of forced entry into the car, and the locks and steering lock 
remained intact. Advantage  thought  it unlikely that the car had been removed by a low 
loader due to its location at the time.  So Advantage thought the car must have been driven 
and it said this could  only be done with a correctly coded key. 
Mr A thought  his car could have been stolen without a key. Advantage considered this and 
contacted a dealership for advice.  It said cars of Mr As age didnt have keyless  entry.  
Advantage said there was no theft damage to show how someone  would have  gained  entry  
to the car. The ECU couldnt  be read due to damage to the wiring. This would have  shown 
when the keys were  last used and how many were  coded to the car. 
So Advantage said it couldnt  establish  how the car had been stolen. But it said the theft 
couldnt have  occurred in the way Mr A described.  So it declined  his claim.
Ref: DRN46764572I think Advantage has reasonably investigated  Mr As claim, as far as it was possible to do 
so. It had two inspections made of the car by independent engineers. It consulted a 
dealership about the cars keys.  And it tried to have the ECU read, albeit without success. 
But I dont think the investigation has provided sufficient evidence  for Advantage to justify its 
decision to decline Mr As claim. We know from police reports and industry experts that cars 
can be stolen without  the use of keys or theft related  damage.  I understand that Advantage 
established that Mr As car didnt have keyless entry.  But this doesnt  preclude it being stolen 
without a key by other means than amplification.  Reading the ECU could have provided 
further information about the keys, but unfortunately this couldnt  be read. Neither could the 
keys be read to see when  theyd  last been used.
Also, Mr As car was recovered partially stripped of its interior  fittings. I cant  see that 
Advantage considered the implications  of this as a motivation for the theft.  I think  Mr A has 
been consistent in his account of the theft.  Advantage confirmed with the police that Mr A 
had provided it with the same account. And so, on balance, I share  the adjudicators view 
and I dont think Admiral has shown that Mr A was involved in the theft of his own car.
So I think Advantage unfairly  declined Mr As claim. I think it should now deal with this and 
add interest to the settlement for the time Mr A has been waiting for his claim to be resolved. 
Mr A has also been caused  considerable inconvenience as hes been without his car for a 
long time.  The adjudicator  recommended  that Advantage pay him £400  compensation for 
this loss of use. I think thats fair and reasonable as Mr A wasnt entirely without  transport, 
albeit this was an inconvenience for his family. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Settle Mr As claim, adding interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
notification of loss until the date of settlement. 
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Advantage to withhold income tax from that interest.  It 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much its taken  off if he asks for one.
3.Pay Mr A £400 compensation for the inconvenience caused by his loss of use. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4676457