K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc - trading as Halifax - mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr B complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the credit card application that Mr B didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out. Mr B says the PPI was added without his 
knowledge. But I can see from his application  form  under the heading  Product details 
 the PPI option has been selected as well as another product and Mr B has signed  the 
application form. Ive noted that the boxes have  been pre-populated by an x which  
suggests the form was completed  by a representative of Bank of Scotland  rather  than by 
Mr B. But I think  this is more likely to have happened as part of a conversation between 
Mr B and Bank of Scotlands representative  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, he was eligible to buy it and he seems  to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about his 
employee benefits and his savings.  But these points dont change my decision.
I also considered what  Mr B said about not using the policy  because  he wasnt  aware  he 
had it. Bank  of Scotland has given us notes from Mr Bs account which shows he tried to 
make an unemployment  claim  on the policy in 2005. So having considered  what  both 
parties have said, as Mr B attempted  to make a claim on the PPI, I think its more likely 
Mr B was aware he had it. So this point doesnt  change my decision. 
This means I dont  think  the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mr B paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr B 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN46928962I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mr B.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4692896