K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave him loans irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about three loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr B between June 2015 and 
February 2016. 
They were  all repayable  in three instalments  over borrowing terms of around three  months. 
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
Loan Start Date Amount Highest Repayment Loan  Paid
1 24.06.15 £250 £131.51 30.09.15
2 09.11.15 £585 £271.54 29.01.16
3 02.02.16 £400 £197.24 31.10.16
Mr B said that Uncle Buck  failed to identify that hed become dependent  on these loans and 
that better  checks wouldve shown further  borrowing wouldnt help his situation or satisfy  his 
long term financial needs. 
Our adjudicators view was that she hadnt seen  enough  to say it was unfair  for Uncle Buck 
to have provided loans1 and 2 to Mr B. But she felt that the pattern of lending  itself showed 
that by loan 3 the borrowing was unsustainable  so Uncle  Buck shouldnt have given Mr B 
the third loan.
Our adjudicator set out the steps  she felt Uncle  Buck  should  take to put things right for Mr B. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with our adjudicators view. Uncle Buck  mainly  said it didnt consider a 
third loan was evidence of reliance  and whilst  its instalment  loans werent designed for 
repeated use it was perfectly possible for a customer  to borrow  again after having repaid the 
previous loan. And Mr B had repaid his previous loans in full and on time when he asked  for 
loan 3. 
Uncle Buck  requested an ombudsman review. So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN42222032But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I agree  with what our adjudicator said about  loans 1 and 2. Ive looked at the information 
Uncle Buck  recorded  for Mr B, including income  and expenditure details from the time. And 
given this was early on in the lending relationship, I agree that there isnt enough to say 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have provided  these loans to Mr B. And as Mr B hasnt raised any 
objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 1 and 2, I dont think that I 
need to say more about  them.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  by loan 3 Uncle Buck  should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely  to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided  this loan. I say this because at this point Uncle Buck  ought to have realised:
Mr B was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Save for a gap in October  
2015, when he was between loans 1 and 2, Mr B had been more or less continuously 
paying Uncle Buck loans since  hed first started borrowing from Uncle Buck  around  
8 months or so earlier  
Ref: DRN42222033Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck  whilst loan 
3 was for less than hed borrowed when he took out loan 2, it was still significantly 
more than hed started off borrowing  when he took out loan 1. So it wasnt  
reasonable of Uncle  Buck to think Mr Bs situation  had improved and he was now 
asking to borrow because of a new need  for a short term loan. Rather,  it looked  more 
like he had long term money problems  and his need for extra cash appeared to be 
ongoing 
Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr B was borrowing 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances each 
time. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Uncle Buck has said, including  its response  to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Uncle Buck  shouldve  seen that 
Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably by the time he took out loan 3  and it 
shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue  to lending  to him. 
I think that Mr B lost out when Uncle Buck provided  loan 3 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
the length of time over which Mr B borrowed  these loans was likely  to have negative 
implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for high-cost  loans. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3 and Uncle Buck should put things right.  
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 3
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*
by loan 3, the length  of time that hed been borrowing from Uncle Buck  means any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse. So all information about loan 3 
should be removed  from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN42222034my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about loan 3. 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should take the steps  Ive set out above to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4222203