K820x#14complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Canada  Life Limited hasnt assessed her income protection claim.
background
Miss R was a member of her previous employers group income  protection  scheme. She 
says she asked Canada  Life not to contact  her employer during its assessment of her claim 
due to concerns  about her employers conduct and ongoing proceedings. 
Canada Life told Miss R it wouldnt  be able to assess her claim without her full consent  to 
contact her employer and any relevant third parties,  but she feels  it is unfairly refusing to 
assess her claim. Miss R complained to Canada  Life and said the forms completed by her 
employer contained  incorrect information.  Canada Life replied to confirm that any information  
it received would be clarified during  the assessment of the claim. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt think  Canada Life had done 
anything wrong  - it had reassured Miss R that it wouldnt  share  any medical information with 
her employer without  her seeing  it first. And that it needed to have her consent  to contact her 
employer to be able to properly assess her claim. 
Miss R disagreed with the investigators view and asked to speak to an Ombudsman directly. 
She said Canada  Life had requested consent to obtain  medical  information  from her 
employer instead  of medical  professionals  and hadnt followed proper process and 
procedures. And so the case  has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Miss Rs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
To begin with, I should deal with Miss Rs request to speak  to me directly. Our investigator 
asked Miss R to confirm whether she was requesting a formal  hearing and if so, to put her 
reasons in writing.  Miss R hasnt provided  any reasons in writing as requested but 
nevertheless, I have considered whether its necessary to hold a hearing. And in this case,  I 
dont think it is. Im satisfied that Miss R has been  given opportunities to provide any 
information she wants to be considered  and I have fully considered everything she has 
provided. There is sufficient evidence and information available for me to reach a decision 
on the complaint  about Canada Life. I cannot get involved in Miss Rs dispute with her 
employer or comment on the decisions made relating to her employment.  
I will now explain why Im not upholding  Miss Rs complaint. The policy  refers  to Miss R as 
the member.
Ive looked at the policy which confirms  Canada Life requires a personal  statement fully 
completed by the member. It explains:
The personal statement  form includes a consent  that provides us with the authority 
to obtain further  information from any relevant medical professional that has attended 
the member, as required under the Access to Medical Reports Act.
Ref: DRN45503312It goes on to say:
In order to complete  assessment  or medical review one or more of the following may 
occur. We may: contact you or the member by telephone to obtain  a fuller picture of 
their circumstancesask one of our rehabilitation consultants to contact you and/or 
the member to discuss the claim by telephone or via a claims visitask for any 
employment records necessary, including recruitment records, job description and/or 
evidence of earnings relating to the member, and/or ask for information about  any 
other income  and/or any other benefitsYou and the member  will provide to us all 
information that is reasonably required by us
Canada Lifes policy terms confirm it may need  to contact  Miss R or her employer to 
complete its assessment. Miss R says Canada  Life asked her to follow  an alternative 
process, raised complaints on her behalf  and put the assessment of her claim on hold whilst 
her complaints were  being investigated.
Ive reviewed all the email trails in relation to the above and can see that Canada  Life did 
suggest that it would contact Miss Rs employer to gain further  information  but Miss R wasnt 
happy with this. Canada Life treated Miss Rs expression of dissatisfaction as a formal 
complaint and provided an answer  to her concerns. Whilst this was happening, the 
assessment of her claim was put on hold,  but I dont think this is unreasonable as the 
complaint related to consent. And Canada Life needed Miss Rs consent to contact her 
employer before proceeding with the assessment of the claim and couldnt simply proceed  
with the assessment based only on the evidence Miss R wished it to see. 
Ive also seen that Miss R did provide her consent  for Canada Life to obtain a report from her 
GP and for a Canada Life nurse to contact her. But Canada Life confirmed that this wasnt  
sufficient, and it would still need to be able to contact her employer to complete the 
assessment of her claim.
Miss R is insistent that Canada life cannot  contact her employer freely while  assessing  her 
claim. She feels that incorrect  information will be provided and would therefore  like Canada 
Life to assess her claim based on the information  provided by her only and/or to obtain  her 
express permission each time it needs to contact  her employer.  But Canada Life has 
explained that it is a condition of the policy for a consent form to be signed which  gives it 
authority to contact her employer without restriction in order  to properly assess  the claim.
I can understand why Miss R would be apprehensive in allowing Canada Life to contact her 
employer due to the issues and concerns shes raised. But Im satisfied that Canada Life has 
given reassurances  that any medical  information  that passes through it, will not be released 
to her employer without her consent. 
In relation to any information that her employer may or may not provide to Canada  Life, 
Miss R would be able to have sight of this and challenge anything  she didnt agree with. But 
Canada Life cannot  assess  Miss Rs claim under a group income protection  claim taken out 
by her employer without her employers  involvement or input. And so, I dont think  Canada  
Life has done anything  wrong here.
I appreciate Miss R will be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied that Canada Life 
isnt unfairly asking for Miss Rs consent to contact relevant parties.  
Ref: DRN45503313my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4550331