K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt explain hed have to pay extra interest  if he 
moved the date of his first mortgage payment. He asks for compensation.
background
Mr A took out a mortgage in mid March 2019. His contractual monthly  payment was about 
£900. However, his first payment,  which was due on 1 May 2019, was about £1,100. 
Mr A called Santander in late March.  He wanted  to move his monthly payment date to later 
in each month, after he was paid. Santander said if it did this the first payment would move 
forwards, to late April.  Mr A wanted the first payment to move to later in May. Santander said 
he should call back in April.
When Mr A called Santander in late April Santander said he could move the date of the first 
payment to 23 May, but the amount due would increase to about £1,400. The increase was 
due to the interest that would accrue between 1 and 23 May. Mr A decided  to make the 
payment on 1 May 2019. He says having  to find the money to do this was difficult.
Santander said it should have told Mr A when  he contacted it in March  2019 that delaying 
the first payment would mean the amount due would increase. It paid compensation of £100. 
Mr A says this isnt enough.  He says Santander should pay further compensation of £300.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Santander 
should have given Mr A clearer  information  on the first call. But this didnt cause Mr A any 
loss. Making the payment on a later date would always have resulted in a higher payment as 
interest would  be applied over a longer  period. Our adjudicator said Santanders  offer of 
£100 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he contacted  Santander  well before the first payment was due. 
He said this is his first mortgage  and Santander  should have explained  the consequences of 
moving the payment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I dont think Santander made an error when it calculated the amount of the first 
payment. Mr As regular  monthly payment was about £900. But the first payment, which  
included interest  for more  than one month, was larger. If the payment had been moved from 
1 May to 23 May the longer period would have meant more interest would have accrued.
When Mr A called in March, he said he wanted to move his mortgage payment to later in 
each month  because this would  fit in better  with the day hes paid. The call handler said 
changing the monthly payment date to 23rd would bring the first payment forwards,  into April.  
Mr A wanted  to move the first payment to later in May. The call handler  said he should call 
back in April. There was no discussion about how moving the payment date would affect the 
amount due.
Ref: DRN47252852When Mr A called in late April 2019  Santander  told him what amount would  be due if the first 
payment was moved to 23 May. Mr A was upset that he hadnt  been told moving  the date 
would increase the amount of the payment when he called in March. He decided  to make  the 
payment on 1 May 2019. He says this put financial  pressure on him. 
Santander says it should have given  Mr A better information about how moving  the date of 
his first payment would change the amount due when he called in March 2019.  What I have 
to decide is whether the compensation paid by Santander is fair and reasonable. 
The mortgage offer says that the first payment might be more than the regular monthly 
payment, depending when the mortgage  starts and the interest accumulated.  Santander 
sent a completion  statement in mid March setting  out the payment due on 1 May 2019. So 
Mr A was aware of the amount due, and that it was more than his usual  monthly payment.
Mr A didnt suffer any financial loss. The payment  he made on 1 May was the amount due. 
At the end of the March  call, Mr A says hes skint. But I dont think Santander would have 
known from this call that he was worried about making the first payment on 1 May. He said 
he wanted to move the monthly payment date to fit in better  with the day hes paid.
Its clear from the later calls that Mr A was worried about having  enough money for the first 
payment. But Mr A would  always have  needed  to find money for the payment due on 1 May 
or the larger payment due on 23 May. 
However, Mr A would have been  able to plan his finances better if hed been told in March 
that delaying the first payment would  increase  the amount due. Its clear  from the call in April 
that he was upset when he was told this. I think its right that Santander  pays compensation 
for this. I appreciate  that Mr A thinks more compensation is due. But, in the circumstances, I 
think £100 is fair and reasonable for the upset caused by Santander not giving Mr A better 
information when  he called in March 2019.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation paid by 
Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4725285