K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Landmark Mortgages  Limited dealt with his mortgage 
account. He asks that it refunds charges and related interest and uses the refund to reduce 
his arrears.
background
Mr C received a letter  from Landmark in June  2018  saying it made an error when calculating 
his monthly payments. It said it had reviewed the account and refunded any fees that were 
applied unfairly,  with related interest.
Mr C received another letter  from Landmark in December 2018.  Landmark said it had made 
an error when calculating the interest  on Mr Cs mortgage account. It said it would refund 
any interest overcharged with any related interest,  and arrears fees applied as a result of the 
error. It sent a cheque  for 8% interest on the overpayments. 
Mr C made  a complaint.  He said Landmark had failed to reduce his interest  rate when the 
Bank of England  reduced its rate and Landmark  should have consolidated his two mortgage 
accounts. Landmark said it wouldnt comment on these issues, which had been the subject 
of a previous complaint that Mr C had brought to this service.
Mr C also said Landmark should refund  all arrears fees and use the refund to reduce his 
arrears. Landmark said while it was entitled  to apply arrears fees when Mr C was two 
months in arrears and no payment arrangement was in place, in line with a previous decision 
from this service, it would  refund arrears fees applied in months  that Mr C had paid the full 
monthly payment.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Landmark 
had refunded £400 of arrears fees applied since 2017. As it had already  removed  the fees 
from Mr Cs account it didnt  need to also reduce Mr Cs arrears by the same amount. 
Our investigator said this service had already considered Mr Cs complaints about his 
interest rate and consolidating his sub accounts and he wouldnt look into this again.
Mr C said he wanted Landmark to refund all charges and related interest. He doesnt want  
this credited to his account; he wants the refund  credited  to his arrears. Mr C said it would  be 
fair if Landmark lowered  the interest rate. He says hes a mortgage prisoner as Landmark 
wont offer a better  rate and he cant refinance with another  provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I should make  it clear what I will consider in this decision. I wont look into the parts of 
Mr Cs complaint that weve considered previously: that is, the consolidation of the sub 
accounts and the interest  rate. An ombudsman issued a final decision on these issues in 
2019. 
And I wont look into Mr Cs complaint that hes a mortgage prisoner  due to the way his 
account is structured.  He raised this after the complaint came to us. Our rules  say that we 
Ref: DRN49178032cant look into a complaint unless its been raised with the lender and its had an opportunity 
to respond  I cant see that this has happened. 
Ive written to Mr C to explain this, and that I will look into his complaint about  the fees 
applied to his account since April 2017.  Mr C replied saying he wanted  me to look into his 
complaint about  the charges, and so Ill now look into this part of his complaint. 
Landmark says the account  terms allow it to apply arrears fees when the account is two 
months in arrears and theres no payment arrangement in place.  However, it agreed to 
remove arrears  fees applied in months where Mr C made his contractual  monthly payment in 
full. I think thats fair.
Mr C asks that Landmark refund all arrears fees.  But I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
require it to do so. Dealing  with an account  in arrears involves additional work for the lender. 
So it applies  a fee to cover this. The terms of Mr Cs account allow  this and it applied  fees in 
accordance with its published tariff. I dont think it acted unfairly.
I also dont think its fair to require Landmark  to reduce Mr Cs arrears by an amount 
equivalent to the arrears  fees it waived. Landmark waived these fees, so they arent  included  
the mortgage balance. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4917803