K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG)  service  under her Homecare 
insurance policy. My references to BG include its agents.
background
Ms Ts boiler broke shortly after its annual inspection. It broke  down intermittently leaving her 
without heating or hot water. Ms T told BG about  the problem. From BGs notes it took its 
engineers ten visits over three weeks before the boiler was fixed.
Ms T complains about: BGs engineers not staying a short while to wait for the boiler to stop 
working; engineers  not ordering parts; engineers  not arriving on time or not coming back  
when they said they would; BG only providing  her with one fan heater and only after several 
engineer visits; BG not recording appointments on its system; BG not calling her back as 
promised; BG not taking  into account  her medical  conditions that shed told it about 
previously.
Ms T said as well as her distress and inconvenience caused by the above  she missed 
various doctors appointments, missed  a trip which shed already paid for and paid for a 
market stall which she couldnt use because of waiting for BG. She also said she had a 
similar complaint with BG in 2017 when her boiler broke and shed ended  up in hospital 
because of her cold home and no hot water. 
BG accepted it had given poor service  and offered Ms T a cheque for £290 as compensation 
for her distress  and inconvenience. Ms T thought  that wasnt enough  and complained to us.
Our investigator said BG should  pay Ms T additional  compensation of £110 (so £400 in 
total).
Ms T agrees. BG doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  BG must pay Ms T compensation  of £400 in total for her distress and 
inconvenience. Ill explain  why. 
BG has pointed out that its engineers spent a lot of time at Ms Ts property despite the boiler 
fault not being present  when they arrived and replaced numerous parts to try to fix the 
problem. It also says its engineers dont always  carry heaters with them and the policy 
doesnt say it will provide heaters. It doesnt guarantee to offer heaters but tries to provide 
them for vulnerable  customers that have a complete loss of heating.  
But BG accepted  it gave  poor service and I dont think  its compensation offer of £290  was 
fair. Ms T had been clear  to it that the problem with her boiler  was intermittent so the 
likelihood was that as its engineers hadn't fixed the boiler it would turn off again. BG told our 
investigator Ms Ts serious chronic  illness was recorded on its systems in 2017. So although 
the policy doesnt say it will provide  heaters it would  have  been reasonable for BG to identify  
Ms T as a vulnerable customer and provide her with a heater or heaters sooner than it did.
Ref: DRN45975362In at least one call BG told Ms T her medical  condition wasnt on its system. BGs final 
response letter to Ms T said it had now ensured her condition  had been highlighted on her 
profile for the future. So it appears  that at the time her health requirements werent fully 
taken into account.  
Overall Im satisfied that additional compensation of £110 is fair and reasonable to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience BGs poor service caused Ms T taking her particular 
circumstances into account.
Ms T says she didnt cash the £290 cheque from BG which has now expired. So BG should 
cancel that cheque and ensure Ms T receives  £400  compensation in total.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms T £400 compensation in total for her 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4597536