K822xcomplaint
Ms K has complained that Covea  Insurance plcs approved repairer carried out poor repairs 
and caused further damage to her car when she made a claim under  her car insurance 
policy. 
background 
Ms Ks car was damaged  by a falling tree in May 2018. Covea arranged for an approved 
repairer (AR) to carry out the repairs. 
Ms K was unhappy  with the repair which took over two months  to be completed.  She said 
several warning lights came on the car, the seatbelt wouldnt work properly and scratches 
remained on the bonnet. She said the sunroof hadnt been properly repaired.  
Covea agreed  for the AR to look at Ms Ks car again. But it didnt collect it when agreed. 
Then it wouldnt start. Further significant  damage was identified  due to excess water.
In August  2018  Covea upheld Ms Ks complaint. It agreed for Ms Ks car to be repaired  by a 
franchise dealership garage. To compensate her, Covea said it would reimburse the excess  
Ms K paid of £450. 
However, Ms K continued to have  ongoing  problems with the repairs  to her car. These 
werent resolved  until 16 January 2019. Covea agreed we could look at all of the issues  
together. 
Our investigator thought Covea should pay Ms K a further £450 compensation for the 
continued delay  and inconvenience caused. In February 2019 Covea agreed. 
Ms K didnt agree. So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. I 
think Ms Ks experience has been extremely poor. It took eight months  for her car to be 
repaired. She bought it new in 2017  less than a year before the incident. And so she has 
been without the enjoyment of her car for far too long. 
I think shes been caused considerable distress and inconvenience due to the numerous 
problems with repairs, going back and forth between the AR, Covea and the franchise 
dealership garage. While I can see Covea and the AR have tried to progress  things and 
keep Ms K updated  since September  2018, this wouldnt have been necessary  if the AR had 
carried out the repairs correctly and in a timely manner  from May 2018. 
I understand Ms K had use of a hire car while her car has been in both garages for repairs.  
The compensation awards we give are modest and take into account  the impact  of the 
distress and inconvenience in each individual  case. 
I think Coveas first compensation sum of £450 for its poor service was fair and reasonable. 
It therefore follows that  given  it took a further  similar period of time to repair Ms Ks car  I 
think a further £450  compensation award  is reasonable  overall.  
Ref: DRN42026532So taking everything into account, I think Covea should pay Ms K a further £450 
compensation, making it a total award  of £900 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance  plc to pay Ms K a further  £450 compensation in addition  to the £450 its 
already paid her. 
Covea Insurance  plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Ms K accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Covea Insurance  plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202653