K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. 
To keep things  simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller in my decision.
Mr P says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store  card.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001. 
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr P owed on his store card.  The policy  would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr P couldnt work because he 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL  has not agreed with the view so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
The policy was taken  out during a telephone call. FICL has said it didnt recommend the 
policy to Mr P. And from what I know about  their sales practices, I think  its more likely that 
FICL didnt  give advice to Mr P during the sale. So it didnt  have to check that the policy 
was right for him but it did need to give him clear enough information to enable  him to 
decide for himself if this cover was right for him.
I dont have a recording of the call with Mr P so I dont know what  was said.  So I havent  
any evidence to show that Mr P was given clear information about the cost of the policy. 
Its possible FICL may have explained the amount he would pay for each pound he spent 
on the card, but I dont know if it explained  that interest would be charged on those 
premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that he would need to keep paying  the 
premiums during a claim. So I dont think its likely Mr P would have been made aware  of 
the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr P as he has told us that he would have been paid 
generous sick pay if he was too ill to work.  Hes sent us paperwork to support this. 
Mr P has also said he had significant savings that he could have used to meet his 
repayments  he has told us how these savings were accumulated and that they were not 
earmarked for any specific  purpose. So, having  thought carefully about all of this, on the 
balance on probabilities, I think its more likely that Mr P would not have thought  the policy 
was value for money if he had fully understood the costs.
Ref: DRN49086792So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think FICL gave clear enough 
information to Mr P to enable him to decide if the policy  was right for him. And, if it had, I 
dont think he would  have  taken the policy out as I dont think  he would have considered  it 
value for money.  So I think Mr P has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr P in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr P would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr P owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr P would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr P would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr P 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr P paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mr P what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr 
P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4908679