K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Ms C are unhappy with the level of service they received from Lloyds  Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) in relation to tracing missing funds from an international bankers draft.  
Background
Ms C purchased an international bankers draft through a Lloyds branch from the joint 
account she holds  with Mr C, in September 2018.  The draft was taken abroad in October  
2018 and Mr C exchanged the draft for a cheque  in the local currency using a third-party  
money exchange service.
In early November 2018, bailiffs  from this third-party  visited Mr C at his home and explained 
to him that the draft had been  returned unpaid. They demanded that bank charges be paid 
to them  and told Mr C to have another international draft issued to the third-party. 
Ms C complained to Lloyds and asked for an investigation to be conducted into what had 
happened to the draft. Lloyds found that the funds had been  retained by the third-partys 
receiving bank as there was a shortfall  in the amount  they had received as a result of fees 
being deducted by their clearing bank.
Lloyds accepted that there had been failings in the level of service Mr and Ms C had 
received in relation to this matter and they made a payment  of £300 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience Mr and Ms C had experienced. They  also paid a further £46 to 
Ms C to cover the costs she had incurred during the investigation.
Mr and Ms C werent happy  with Lloyds response and referred  their complaint to us for 
consideration. Our investigator thought that Lloyds offer was fair in the circumstances of the 
complaint and that the £346  paid to Mr and Ms C represented a reasonable level of 
compensation.
Mr and Ms C did not agree and asked for the complaint  to be passed  to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I realise  Mr and Ms C will be disappointed with this 
outcome and Ive explained my reasoning below.
Lloyds investigation  established that although the full amount left Mr and Ms Cs account, a 
reduced amount  was credited to the third-party  receiving bank as the clearing bank had 
deducted fees. The third-party receiving  bank retained the funds due to this shortfall which  
resulted in the third-party money  exchange  service  believing the draft had been  unpaid. 
I dont think Lloyds can be held accountable  for the issues Mr C experienced as a result of 
the delay in the funds  from the draft being released  and I note that Ms C does not think  that 
Lloyds created the issue. Therefore, I have  considered whether Lloyds did enough to help 
Mr and Ms C resolve the matter once it was raised with them.
Ref: DRN43643642Having seen Lloyds  internal notes,  it is clear to me that they assisted Ms C with her 
investigation into what had happened to the draft. I am satisfied that Lloyds took appropriate 
action to trace the funds and that they werent  to blame for all the delays that Ms C 
experienced.
I understand that Ms C believes the investigation only progressed as quickly as it did 
because of her intervention. However,  I am not persuaded that this was the case  as I can 
see that Lloyds  were actively trying to get responses  from the various third-party banks 
involved.
Lloyds were dependant on these  responses  to establish what  had gone  wrong,  and without 
this information  they were  unable to provide answers to Ms C. There is evidence that Lloyds 
contacted and chased the third-parties and many of the delays were caused by the delay  in 
responses from the third-party  banks.
Lloyds have acknowledged Ms C experienced some  customer service issues in relation to 
the complaint.  They  accept  that there was a delay in contacting  Ms C initially to discuss  her 
concerns, that Ms C had to chase them  for updates on several  occasions  and that at one 
stage Ms C was incorrectly advised that she needed to go back  to the branch where the 
international draft was issued. I agree that these errors would have  caused  Mr and Ms C 
additional distress  during  this difficult time.  
Lloyds have offered  to pay £46 to cover the costs Ms C incurred and a further £300 for the 
service issues  Mr and Ms C experienced. I think that Lloyds offer represents a fair amount 
of compensation  for the additional distress and inconvenience these  service  failings caused 
to Mr and Ms C.
I appreciate that Mr and Ms C have been under considerable stress during this time and that 
Ms C put a substantial amount of time and effort into investigating this matter. However, from 
the evidence I have seen, Lloyds made the relevant  enquiries to find out what  happened to 
the funds and assisted Ms C with her investigation.  And although there were service  failings  
along the way, including  the initial delay, I cant see that Lloyds could have done  much more 
to bring this matter  to a conclusion any sooner. 
Mr and Ms C found themselves in a very difficult situation, but Lloyds were not to blame for 
what happened to the funds. Most of the distress seems to have been caused by the third-
party that instructed  the bailiffs, and this was because  the third-partys bank and their 
clearing bank had made  a mistake.  Although Lloyds caused some additional issues  for Mr 
and Ms C, Im satisfied that overall, they took the appropriate action to help them.
As such,  I think Lloyds  offer of £346  is fair and reasonable in this case and I am not going to 
ask them  to do anything  further. 
On a final note I understand that Ms C is unhappy  with Lloyds process  regarding  issuing 
international drafts. As our investigator  explained, it is not part of our role at the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to tell Lloyds what their processes  should  be.
However, I think it is important to note that there  is information available on Lloyds website in 
relation to making International Money Transfers which clearly states that correspondent and 
recipient bank charges may apply. Lloyds would not have  any way of knowing what these 
charges might be in advance of the draft being  negotiated. So, for this reason I dont think 
they did anything  wrong in this specific case.  
Ref: DRN43643643My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £346 to 
Mr and Ms C if they havent  done  so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4364364