K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has declined his furniture warranty 
claim for staining to his sofas and armchair.  
background
In March 2013 Mr B bought two sofas  and an armchair from a national furniture retailer.  At 
the time of purchase he also bought a five year extended warranty which  provided cover  for 
stains and accidental damage.  
In March 2018 Mr B contacted Assurant to make a claim for staining to his sofa caused  by 
his toddler son and his sons friend drawing over the furniture with a marker pen. All the 
cushions had been drawn on whilst  Mr Bs wife was out of the room  for a short while.  
Assurant sent Mr B a claim form and a couple  of weeks later one of its technicians called to 
inspect the damage. 
Following the technicians visit, Assurant declined the claim by relying on one of the policy  
exclusions. It said the policy didnt provide cover for misuse of the furniture by family 
members lawfully on the premises. 
Mr B complained to Assurant. It investigated  his concerns but didnt think itd wrongly 
declined his claim. So Mr B brought his complaint  to this service. Our investigator  looked into 
his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. The complaint was passed to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws warranty doesnt cover him for all types  of damage that his furniture can sustain. It 
provides cover for stains and accidental damage. There  are also limitations to this cover.  
Stains are defined in the warranty as, sudden  and unforeseen  spillage[s] caused by 
substances listed  on the Policy  Certificate.  Ink is one of the substances  listed. Accidental 
damage means any unexpected, sudden and unforeseen  damage caused by external force  
being applied  and results in a rip, tear, burn or scratch. 
The damage to Mr Ws sofa was, by all accounts,  ink staining caused suddenly.  But Mr W 
had already made two previous claims under the warranty for the same  type of damage  ink 
stains caused by a child (both accepted  by Assurant at its discretion). As there had been two 
previous instances  of the same type of damage during the lifetime of the warranty  I dont 
think I could fairly conclude that the staining  that resulted in this claim was unforeseen as 
required by the policy terms.  
But even if I were to accept that the staining  was unforeseen Assurant has relied on one of 
the policy exclusions/limitations in order to decline the claim. The term it relies on is as 
follows:
Section  4  WHAT  IS NOT COVERED:  - YourFurniture Protection Plan will not cover 
You for:
Ref: DRN435529023. Damage caused by .neglect,  abuse,  misuse or malicious damage of the 
Product(s) caused by You or Your family  or any other person lawfully on Your premises
I think that Assurant has relied  on this exclusion  fairly.  The furniture has been  misused  and 
hasnt been used for its correct purpose. The policy makes no distinction or exception  for 
different family members
I know that Assurant upheld two similar  claims but it did so at its discretion. A strict 
interpretation of the policy terms by Assurant  on both occasions wouldve led to those claims 
being declined.  And just because it accepted  the previous claim doesnt mean it is required 
to accept this one. The fact there were two previous, and very similar, claims means its not 
unreasonable to think  that there  was a subsequent lack of care taken to safeguard the 
furniture. That is the same as neglect. 
Although I appreciate that it will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  On balance, I dont think  that Assurant has treated him unfairly 
or that it has unreasonably declined his latest claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4355290