K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was given unsuitable advice by Capitas IFA Limited 
(Capitas) in 2010  to transfer  out of her executive pension plan (EPP) and invest  in a 
personal pension  and investment bond with MetLife. Mrs Ds husband  has made a similar 
complaint which  has been dealt with under separate reference. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February  2020.  Ive attached it and it forms part of this 
decision. 
Capitas accepted my provisional decision. It made a couple of points  in relation to Mr D 
which Ive taken as applying to Mrs D too.  
Mrs D couldnt have  taken tax free cash of 25% from her EPP  the only way she 
could access the full 25% was to transfer  to a personal pension. She planned to use 
the tax free cash  to supplement her and her husbands income. Although they were  
expecting to receive some lump  sums  (from  the repayment of debts owed to them  by 
family members), Capitas considered it wise to maintain maximum flexibility by 
having the maximum tax free cash available.
When Mrs D and her husband might retire had been discussed. Theyd been clients  
of Capitas for many years. Mr Ds preferred retirement age had been age 60 but it 
became increasingly  clear  that age 65 would  be more  realistic. In 2010  Mrs Ds and 
her husbands  plan was to retire  as soon as possible although they wouldnt be able 
to afford to do so before  Mr Ds state  pension would be paid  then only three and a 
half years  away.  The uncertainty as to how soon theyd  be able to retire  meant  it was 
essential to safeguard  the value of the income  potential of the tax free cash and at a 
time when markets remained volatile. 
The dramatic market falls happening  now illustrate the rationale for the advice. 
Investors have been taken by surprise and had no time to move  their money out of 
the markets. Some investors  will have to delay their retirements or reduce  or defer  
their income to conserve their pension  pots. 
Mrs D was understandably disappointed that I hadnt upheld her complaint. She didnt make  
any further comments or offer any new evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the further  points  made by Capitas,  including what its said about the timing of Mr Ds 
retirement having been discussed. It seems that was going to be, at the earliest, when Mr D 
was able to draw his state pension  age 65. But I think  there  was always the possibility that 
it could be later. And, as things turned out, Mr D didnt retire  he was 68. So I still think  theres 
some question about securing Mrs Ds and her husbands income  when their retirement  was 
still some  years off. And Id have preferred to have seen that covered in the recommendation 
letter. But, and as Ive said, it seems Mrs Ds and her husbands priority was to guarantee 
their retirement income. 
Ref: DRN41821912In the absence of any new evidence or arguments my views remain as set out in my 
attached provisional decision. 
Im unable to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and so Im not making  any award.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41821913PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 27 February 2020
complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was given unsuitable advice by Capitas IFA Limited 
(Capitas) in 2010  to transfer  out of her executive pension plan (EPP) and invest  in a 
personal pension  and investment bond with MetLife. Mrs Ds husband  has made a similar 
complaint which  has been dealt with under separate reference. 
background
Mrs D and her husband  sought advice from Capitas  in October 2010 by which time Mrs D 
was 59. They completed a confidential financial review form (fact find),  a retirement  options 
client attitude questionnaire (the questionnaire) and a risk profiler.  Capitas wrote to Mrs D 
and her husband on 19 November 2010 with its recommendations.  Capitas  advised  Mrs D to 
transfer her EPP to a personal pension with MetLife and invest in its Cautious Index Secure 
Income Option fund. Then, once transferred, Mrs D should take 25% of the fund value as tax 
free cash  and invest it in a MetLife Secure Income  Bond. 
Mrs D agreed  to what Capitas had recommended and the EPP transfers went ahead in the 
first week  of December 2010.  The tax free cash element was then deducted from the 
pension plan and invested in the bond on 21 December 2010. 
In 2017 Mrs D was going  to retire  and revisited her pension arrangements with a new 
adviser. She was advised she might have been better off and had greater, more tax efficient 
benefits, if shed  retained  her existing EPP. Mrs D looked into things  further and concluded 
shed been given unsuitable advice in 2010.  She complained to Capitas. 
Capitas didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the advice had been appropriate as it was 
intended to secure  a guaranteed income,  which was what  Mrs D specifically wanted. Mrs D 
referred her complaint  to us. Ive summarised below how our investigation  has progressed. 
was the complaint made in time?
As the advice Mrs D was complaining about  had been given more than six years earlier we 
asked Capitas if it consented to us dealing  with the complaint. Capitas said the complaint 
had been made too late. Our adjudicator didnt agree. He said the complaint was about 
advice given in 2010 which was more  than six years ago. But he didnt think Mrs D ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware she had cause for complaint  more  than three  years  before 
she made her complaint  (in October  2017). 
Capitas didnt accept  that and the complaint was referred to me. I issued a jurisdiction 
decision on 11 December 2018. I set out the relevant Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule  DISP  
2.8.2R (2). Broadly it says we cant consider a complaint referred  to us more than six years  
after the event  complained of; or (if later) more than three  years  from when the complainant 
became aware  (or ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
Mrs D had complained  in 2017 about advice given in 2010. That was outside  the primary six 
year period.  But I said shed complained within three years  of when she became aware she 
had cause for complaint. I didnt think there was anything which  ought  reasonably  to have 
made her aware earlier she had cause for complaint. 
Ref: DRN41821914our investigation  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the merits of the complaint. She issued her view on 10 
January 2019,  upholding the complaint in part. She didnt  think  the advice to transfer from 
the EPP to the new arrangement was unsuitable.  But she said Mrs D shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer the tax free cash to the bond. 
Mrs D accepted the adjudicators view. She told us that she and her husband had recently  
needed a significant amount of money  to help out a family member. Had the tax free cash 
still been available in the pension they could have accessed the money  without any tax 
implications. But, as the money was held in the bond, they were likely to incur  a tax charge. 
Mrs D later added  that the main  issue was the withdrawal of the tax free cash and 
investment in the bond. Mrs Ds husband had queried the amount of commission  generated. 
The adviser had offered  a refund which Mr D hadnt taken.
Mrs D said retirement  was some way off in 2010.   She didnt really  understand the 
guarantee but she wanted a secure  low risk pension in a tax efficient environment. She now 
thought shed have been better off keeping her money in the pension  as she was now liable 
for tax on withdrawals from the bond over 5% pa. And the amount of tax free cash had been  
restricted. 
Capitas disagreed with what the adjudicator had said. To summarise  Capitas main points:
The adjudicator  had wrongly relied  on a conversation Mr D apparently  had with one 
of his former providers  whod  told him hed have  been better off leaving his pension 
where it was. 
The adjudicator  had also placed too much weight on Mrs Ds attitude to risk and had 
ignored contemporaneous documentation  (such  as the questionnaire) which  set out 
Mrs Ds priorities   to secure  the amount of retirement  income from all sources 
against investment  market movements and use the tax free cash to supplement  her 
income.
The tax free cash amount wasnt protected so if the fund value fell so would the tax 
free cash  and the amount of income available from that source. The aim was to 
ensure that potential  future income  was protected. By withdrawing the tax free cash 
and investing  it in the bond it became the secure income base on which future  
income would  be based and which couldnt reduce due to market  movements and 
guaranteed to increase (even if the markets fell) whilst income was deferred. 
Contrary to what the adjudicator  had said, there  was nothing  to suggest Mrs D might,  
at times, be a higher rate taxpayer in retirement. 
Mrs D hadnt been double charged when  the bond was set up. When Mr D had 
queried the matter  in April 2014, Capitas had explained. Mr D then sent a further 
email thanking Capitas  for the clarification which Mr D said makes sense. 
Capitas researched the clients circumstances, objectives and preferences.  The 
priority was to secure  the amount  of retirement  income from all sources against 
investment market movements and use the tax free cash  to supplement the income.  
Guaranteeing the best possible future retirement  income against market  falls was the 
priority and the MetLife pension and bond was the only way to do that  it was a 
unique product and an entirely  suitable recommendation. 
Capitas later made some further comments,  in the main, about our process  and how the 
adjudicator had dealt with the complaint. 
Ref: DRN41821915The adjudicator issued a revised view on 2 April 2019. She maintained that investing the tax 
free cash  in the bond wasnt suitable. And she said the advice to transfer out of the EPP 
wasnt suitable either. The EPP was relatively  inexpensive. The new MetLife  pension  had 
higher overall  charges. Mrs D was a cautious  to medium  risk investor. Her existing EPP 
funds were invested appropriately  in cautious managed funds.  The secure income  option  
offered a base level income guarantee. But it cost an additional 1.4%  pa and the guarantee 
only worked if Mrs D remained with MetLife. She could  have  been  directed to cheaper funds 
that matched  her attitude to risk and desire for security within  her existing  plan and which 
would have left her options open when she came to retire. This fund choice  could have been 
reviewed if and when  Mrs D became happy  to invest in more growth oriented funds. 
Capitas replied by letter dated 7 May 2019 with enclosures. Capitas reiterated  some of what  
it had said earlier (and which  it felt the adjudicator hadnt taken into account) including the 
advisers research; the importance of the questionnaire and fact find; Mrs Ds and her 
husbands plans  to use the tax free cash to supplement their income and their need for the 
income it could provide  to be secure  and guaranteed; and their expectation  that theyd get 
some lump  sums (repayment of loans  theyd made  to their children). Capitas also said:
MetLifes charges  were higher. But the guarantees  were  unique. Guaranteed income 
is paid from both the pension and the bond for the lifespan  of the investor, no matter  
how long he or she may live and even  if the fund is entirely  depleted. Whilst income 
is deferred the secure income base is guaranteed  to increase. Growth is locked in 
until the investor starts to draw income,  even if markets decline. The percentage 
income level will never  decrease.  And the charges  were set out in the suitability letter 
and illustrations. Mrs D went ahead because she wanted the guarantees. Lower risk 
funds could have  fallen in value and didnt carry guarantees. 
Mrs D and her husbands pension funds werent  large. Market  volatility  could reduce 
the funds and the income theyd provide substantially and quickly  if there  were  no 
guarantees. Having  a guaranteed income  at retirement was fundamentally important. 
The adjudicators  conclusions reflected what Mrs D said now, rather than the facts at 
the time.  If shed  since changed her mind or been influenced by her new adviser that 
had no bearing  on the advice given  in 2010.  And Mrs D wasnt  complaining about the 
transfers, just about the investment of the tax free cash  in the bond.
Mrs D and her husband had made it very clear  they wanted  a secure, guaranteed, 
income, given the recession and the possibility of further economic downturns. If the 
markets fell the guaranteed income  from the pension would be protected  but not the 
tax free cash.  If the fund value fell so would the tax free cash and with it the income 
available from that portion  of the fund.  The only way to protect that income was to 
withdraw the cash and invest it in the bond.  
We shared Capitas comments with Mrs D. She said the main  issue  (and which had 
prompted the complaint) was the recommendation to take the tax free cash  and invest it in 
the bond  which offered exactly the same guaranteed income terms. If the tax free cash  
had remained in the pensions it would still have benefitted from the guaranteed income and 
she could have taken  it as and when she and her husband needed it, with no tax 
implications. And the adviser had admitted that the two products meant hed received  more 
commission. 
In response Capitas said Mrs D and her husband  were only complaining about taking the tax 
free cash  and investing it in the bond.  Capitas repeated how the income potential of the tax 
Ref: DRN41821916free cash  was protected by doing  that. The commission was explained in the email to Mr D 
dated 29 April 2014 which he accepted.  A second  layer of charges hadnt been  applied.
The complaint was reviewed by a new adjudicator. He wrote to Capitas to clarify some  
issues. About the tax free cash  the adjudicator said he didnt see that Mrs Ds income 
potential was any more  protected in the bond  than it would have been in the pension. The 
secure income base  was calculated at the same rates in the pension  and the bond. Had the 
tax free cash been retained in the pension the same guarantee  would have applied  to the 
income deriving from that sum. 
Capitas didnt disagree. It added, if Mrs D and her husband had been certain theyd never 
want to take the tax free cash, thered have been no point in transferring it to the bond and 
Capitas wouldnt have  advised doing  that. But theyd said they did want to take the tax free 
cash and use it to provide  more  income.  Transferring to the bond  kept their options open. 
The capital remained available if they needed  it. If theyd left it in the pension after theyd 
crystallised and started to withdraw income it would no longer  have  been  available to them.  
And they were getting 25% of the fund free of tax which was then invested in a bond 
designed to provide income on a tax efficient basis. Capitas repeated that the guarantees 
only applied  to the income and so leaving the tax free cash in the pension  meant,  if the fund 
value fell, the tax free cash could have  been  lower and so the income it could  produce  would 
be lower too. Mrs D and her husband wanted  to use the income from the tax free cash to 
supplement their pension.  The value of that income  had to be protected (and indeed  
increased). 
Capitas said it generally charged 3% commission. The procedure  for the transfers  was that 
the total pension fund had to be transferred to MetLife and it would  then pay the pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS). The adviser  knew hed be paid twice  on the PCLS  
amount because that was how MetLifes system operated. So he arranged to take 2.5% 
commission instead which hed calculated would be near enough to rectify the anomaly. This 
was discussed  and shown in the quotations  and other documents  given to Mrs D and her 
husband.   
When Mr D queried the position  in 2014 the adviser  recalculated the figures and found  hed 
received 0.055% (£118.91) more commission than if MetLife  had been  able to adjust the 
commission. Hed told Mrs D and her husband in the suitability letter that hed take 2.5% of 
the amounts invested, which is what happened. So he wasnt under any obligation to refund 
them. But he decided to offer (as a gesture of goodwill) the difference  with interest.  Mr D 
confirmed he understood and didnt  request payment. The adviser assumed Mr D didnt want 
it to be paid and closed the file. 
Mrs Ds closing comments were that neither she nor her husband had retired  or were looking 
to retire when  the advice  was given. They may have  said they would like to supplement  their 
income (using the tax free cash) once they were retired. But they had no idea of the 
downside of taking  the tax free cash before they actually  needed  it and about the investment 
bond. They  should have been advised  to leave the money in the pension  and delay the 
decision to take the tax free cash until they were looking to retire.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN41821917I can see that Capitas  feels very strongly about  the matter and has some concerns about 
how weve handled the complaint, including the time taken. Id also like to offer my apologies  
that its taken us longer than wed have liked to deal with the complaint. A consumer  may tell 
us theyve suffered  stress and anxiety because  their complaint hasnt been resolved. I dont 
doubt that Mrs D and her husband have found the matter stressful. I appreciate the same 
can be true for our business  customers too. Thats especially the case  if there are other 
worries too such as illness.  
In the main,  any concerns about  our service will need to be addressed  elsewhere.  But the 
(new) adjudicator did explain  how our process works, including why an adjudicator might 
speak to a consumer over the telephone and why a copy of the adjudicators view is 
provided to both parties even though the eventual outcome may be different. The adjudicator 
also confirmed, if a consumer says part of the advice  wasnt  suitable, it wouldnt be unusual 
for us to consider the suitability of the advice in its entirety. And, as to what Capitas has said 
about important  contemporaneous evidence  not being taken into account or given 
insufficient weight,  Ive considered everything  afresh. 
Ive also noted  what Capitas said about  the complaints being split. But I think that was the 
right decision. Advice may have been  given to Mrs D and her husband together.  Often that 
will be convenient and where,  as a couple,  their finances are interlinked.  But  Mrs D and her 
husbands pension  entitlements  arent  jointly held  each has their own arrangement in their 
own name. And any redress would need to be paid separately. So I think the decision to split 
the complaint  was correct. That said, because the complaints centre on the same advice and 
the concerns raised are the same, my (provisional) decisions are in substance  identical.  
Ive looked first at the transfers  to the MetLife personal pension.  I dont think anything  turns 
on the conversation  referred to by the adjudicator as part of the background to the complaint. 
I dont think there was any suggestion that shed relied on any comment  made  by a provider 
about whether  Mr D should have left his pension where it was. I havent  either.  
The MetLife product  is aimed at meeting the gap between  an annuity (which  provides an 
income payable  for life but capital and flexibility are given up) and other drawdown plans 
where theres a risk (depending on investment  performance, how long the investor lives and 
the level of withdrawals)  the fund will be depleted or exhausted. The MetLife  product offers a 
secure income base   a guaranteed income from the outset. And if the investor doesnt take 
any income its effectively rolled up to provide  future income which can be increased based 
on locked in fund performance and other factors. Theres a separate fund value which can 
fluctuate according to the performance of the underlying investment. 
Capitas has stressed that it was the only product that met Mrs Ds express requirements at 
the time.  The questionnaire  (which Mrs D and her husband signed on 11 October 2010) 
records, amongst other things, their priority was to make sure their income from their 
retirement savings was secure  and guaranteed. They  said they wouldnt be happy  if external 
factors meant that it fluctuated and they wanted  to consider the option of a built in guarantee. 
The suitability letter says they were concerned about market  volatility and the prospect of a 
double dip recession. Their priority was to secure the value of their pension  funds and 
guarantee their pension  income, regardless of fluctuating  markets.  
What doesnt  seem  to have been  discussed  (or, if it was, it isnt recorded)  is the timing   that 
is, when Mrs D and her husband planned  to retire. Mr D was 61 at the time of the advice. 
Theres a reference  in the suitability  letter to Mr D reaching state pension age in the next few 
years but theres  nothing  to indicate that when he and Mrs D were  actually planning  to stop 
Ref: DRN41821918working (they had their own company) and would  need to access their retirement funds was 
discussed. 
Mrs D says, at the time, retirement was still some  way off. It wasnt  until the end of October 
2017 that they retired by which time Mr D was 68 and Mrs D 66.  And I think  shes  yet to take 
any income from her pension. So her retirement  (in terms of stopping work)  was over seven 
years away  when the advice was given  in 2010.  By securing her retirement income  when 
she did, Mrs D was potentially missing out on several years investment growth if the 
markets recovered  and any further recession was avoided.  
I dont want Capitas to think Ive missed what its been keen to stress throughout  that Mrs 
D wanted to guarantee her retirement  income  amid  fears of a further recession. So simply 
leaving her pension arrangements  as they were, or perhaps switching from cautious 
managed funds to lower  risk investments, wouldnt have provided the income guarantees 
MetLife offered  and which at the time was Mrs Ds priority. 
But the point Im making is that Mrs Ds investment horizon was a relevant consideration. I 
can see why shed  want to secure her income if they expected  to retire soon. Theyd be keen 
not to suffer  investment falls when there wouldnt be time to recover  before they retired. I 
dont think the position is so clear  cut if their retirement was still some years  off. In that case  
Id have expected there  to have been some discussion around  the timing  and that, if her 
fears didnt materialise  and investment  conditions  were more favourable, she risked losing 
out on several years of further growth. And that any possible alternative strategies, such as 
moving to lower risk funds, had been  considered and ruled  out.  
But Mrs D hasnt said that she wasnt looking for guarantees at the time. And theres no 
suggestion her thinking  was driven  by what had been  discussed during the advice process. 
The suitability letter is clear that the priority was to guarantee  her retirement income  at that 
stage. I think the suitability letter is also fairly  clear  about how the MetLife product worked 
overall and the costs.  The charges  were  more than the existing EPP but not, in my view, so 
much higher  that calls into question  the suitability of the product. Mrs D was getting a 
guaranteed income and theres  a cost to that which was made clear. Overall  Im not going  to 
say the recommendation to transfer to the MetLife pension was unsuitable. 
That brings me to the tax free cash and the bond  which I agree has been  Mrs Ds focus. 
The questionnaire records that they were planning to use the tax free cash to supplement 
their retirement income and that they wanted  to protect it against  market downturns.  The 
suitability letter was fairly brief about  the recommendation to take the tax free cash  and 
invest it in the bond.  It said:
Your circumstances and needs might change in the future, so the Plan has been designed 
to be as flexible  as possible. Here's how.
You also preferred  to ensure  that the value of your PCLS  would not be eroded  by any 
downturn in the markets.  Taking into consideration that the provision you have made  within 
pension plans has been insufficient  to provide  you with a substantial level of income, I have 
recommended that the PCLS should be invested  in the MetLife  Investment  Bond  - Secure 
Income Option in order to provide you with a supplementary income when required. Whilst 
you defer taking income MetLife will increase your Secure  Income  Base by a guaranteed 
minimum rate of 3% of the initial investment every year.
Ref: DRN41821919I think that could  imply that the income  derived from the tax free cash  element of the fund 
would only be protected if transferred to a bond.  But, and as Capitas accepts, the income  
guarantees were  the same whether it was left in the pension or transferred to the bond. 
Mrs D didnt need to elect to place the monies  in drawdown at the outset. MetLife has 
explained that phased withdrawal was available. The tax free cash  would have  remained 
invested with the rest of the fund. But once the fund had been  designated as being  placed in 
drawdown, and crystallised no further PCLS would be available from the crystallised fund.
So in 2010 Mrs D could  have kept her entire  fund uncrystallised and so retained maximum 
lump sum flexibility. If shed then decided,  perhaps  some years later, she wanted to take an 
income from the entire fund then she could have  designated the whole fund to drawdown. In 
that case all the withdrawals would have been treated as income and so taxable.  Or she 
could have taken  the tax free cash then and, assuming she didnt need it as such,  invested  it 
in the bond so that shed get a tax free income source.
The downside of keeping  the tax free cash in the pension was that the amount might  be 
lower  the PCLS that would have been available later could  be more or less than the 
amount that was initially available depending on investment performance up to the time the 
cash is taken out  Mrs Ds entitlement was to 25% of the then fund value. And, if the PCLS 
was lower, the guaranteed income  on investment in a bond would be lower than if Mrs D had 
taken the tax free cash at the outset and invested it in the bond  and so secured the secure  
income base at that higher value.  
Capitas has stressed that Mrs D wanted  to ensure her retirement income from all sources, 
including the tax free cash portion of her fund,  was secure and guaranteed.  The suitability 
letter refers  to Mrs D not wanting the value of the tax free cash  to be eroded by any 
downturn in the markets.  On that basis, and if Mrs D had been certain shed never  need  to 
use the tax free cash other than to supplement her income, thered have been no point in 
taking it and putting it in the bond   it would  have been subject to the same income 
guarantee as the rest of the fund.  And, as Mrs D has pointed  out, accessing the money  if the 
need arose would have  been straightforward  and wouldnt incur  any income tax liability. 
Its often the case that not all of an investors  competing priorities  can be accommodated. In 
that situation the advice  should explain why the particular product is being recommended 
and how it meets the investors priorities but also any downside to enable  the investor  to 
make an informed choice.  I dont think Mrs Ds options regarding the tax free cash were  
explored in any detail. But that doesnt  mean  the advice to take it and invest  it in the bond  
was unsuitable  or that, if Mrs D had been given  more information, shed have decided  
against doing that.  
I think that boils down  to whether she wanted to retain maximum flexibility  to take lump sums 
and was prepared  to forego some security in respect of the tax free cash element of the fund 
(which could fall in value and so with it the income it would provide). But, if she was really  
driven by wanting  to guarantee  her income  and she didnt think shed  need  to use the tax 
free cash  other than to supplement her income,  its difficult to see shed have elected to keep 
the tax free cash  within the pension and where,  depending on when she accessed it, it might 
be worth  less than was initially available to her and so the income (although  calculated  on 
the same  basis whether  in the bond or in the pension) would  be less too. As Ive said,  the 
bond did give some  scope for withdrawals and Mrs D may well have thought that would meet  
any unforeseen needs. 
Ref: DRN418219110Mrs D might view things differently now. I think thats natural especially given, as things 
turned out, she did need to access some capital  quickly.  But Im not judging the advice with 
the benefit of hindsight.  What I need  to consider  is whether the recommendations were 
suitable at the time, given Mrs Ds circumstances and objectives then. 
All in all Im not convinced  the recommendations were unsuitable or that Mrs D would have 
decided against  taking the tax free cash and investing it in the bond if things had been 
explained to her in more  detail. As Ive said, Im concerned about the timeframe. I can see 
why Mrs D considers she should have been encouraged to keep  her options open. But I 
think its difficult to say an adviser should  give that sort of advice if the client  is clear  that she 
wants security  and income guarantees. 
Lastly I dont think theres  any element of double charging. The adviser  recognised that 
MetLifes charging structure  mean  that commission would,  in effect, be deducted twice  on 
the transfers and then again on the investment of the tax free cash  in the bond.  And the 
adviser adjusted  his commission to take that into account. That by and large worked and the 
adviser offered  to refund with interest  the small overcharge  that resulted. Mr D it seems 
wasnt concerned  and was happy  with the explanation which  I think  was fair enough.
I dont think Mrs Ds complaint should  be upheld. I dont doubt that will come as a 
disappointment to her. Especially when shes had two views from an adjudicator, both of 
which upheld her complaint and which  naturally will have  raised  her expectations.  But where 
either or both parties dont  accept  the adjudicators view and the complaint is referred to an 
ombudsman, he or she will carry out a new and independent review of the complaint and 
reach his or her own conclusions about whats happened and may come to a different 
conclusion to the adjudicator.
my provisional decision
I dont uphold the complaint and so Im not making  any award. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4182191