K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs B, that Decidebloom Limited trading as 
Stoneacre Financial Services (SFS) mis sold a car to Mrs B and wont  let her reject it.
background
Mr B says at the end of Mrs Bs finance  agreement with SFS she had the option of either 
buying the car or getting an upgrade. He says the car she had worked so she didnt 
necessarily need  a new one. But he says SFS offered Mrs B an upgrade  which she took.  
But he says the car Mrs B then got under a Hire Purchase Agreement  (HP) in May 2018  
wasnt an upgrade,  was dirty and lost power. So Mrs B contacted SFS on 23 May 2018  to 
reject the car.
SFS apologised  that Mrs B complaint wasnt  passed  on until 18th June 2018.  It said her 
finance application for the car she originally wanted wasnt  accepted.  So it offered  another 
car instead. It said Mrs B was aware of the full specification for this car when she took out 
the HP Agreement.
It added it had offered  Mrs B the chance to look at alternative vehicles as a solution  but Mrs 
B had turned this down. So it didnt feel there were any grounds to allow rejection of the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt find any grounds of mis 
representation. He felt Mrs B had got an upgraded vehicle. He didnt feel there was any 
evidence of problems  with the car. And there  hadnt  been any opportunity for the business to 
address any problems.
He felt as Mrs B wasnt happy  with the car the business had offered a fair solution  by saying 
it would  look at replacements. But Mrs B had turned this option down. He felt SFS had done 
enough to try to put things right and didnt feel there  were  any grounds to allow  Mrs B to 
reject the car.
Mrs B didnt accept this view. She said she had been promised an upgrade  she hadnt got. 
That some features of the car she traded  in such as automatic window wipers were  not on 
the car she now has. She referred to a phone  conversation with the dealer which she said 
would show what she was promised.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He said he had asked 
for call recordings but these were not available. So with no evidence as to what  Mrs B was 
offered or promised  he didnt feel he had any grounds to change his view.  He did check with 
the business who said it would honour its offer to look at exchanging the car, subject to 
finance approval, and there being  no damage to the car Mrs B currently  had
Mr B said that Mrs B didnt  want  to exchange  the car. He reiterated she could have bought 
the car she originally had. She had no need  for a new car but she liked and wanted  the 
features of the newer model she was offered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45460952Mrs B feels  strongly about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate she is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same view as our investigator.
As I understand it the original car Mrs B wanted she couldnt get as her application for 
finance was turned down.  Instead it seems  she accepted, over the phone, a different model. 
Its unfortunate that phone  call isnt available for us to listen to as it seems  that is when Mrs 
B says she was offered and promised certain things which  she feels  she didnt get in.
SFS has told us that Mrs B saw the full specification for the car. It hasnt given us any 
evidence of that. 
But I have seen the vehicle order form and the finance agreement  which  between  them  give 
the model, colour and mileage but no further details. But as Mrs B had the model she could 
have checked  online to see what the exact features of the car were  before she committed to 
signing the HP Agreement. I can see from the part exchange information  that Mrs B traded 
in a SZ2 for a SZ3 which would indicate  she did get an upgrade.
Mrs B has told us she didnt get some  features she expected to get or some features  that 
she had on the car she part exchanged. An upgrade wouldnt necessarily mean that 
everything would be the same  as the older  model with some extras.  I am surprised that 
when Mrs B collected her car she didnt check it before  she took it away   all the more  so as 
she agreed to have the car by phone. I dont feel I have any evidence to show  that the 
business mis represented  the car to Mrs B. So I dont feel I can reasonably say it would be 
fair to allow her to reject the car.
Mrs B has told us there were  some problems with the car with dirt on the undercarriage and 
under the bonnet. Also the car lost power. And she did ask to reject  the car within 30 days.  
But she hasnt given  us any evidence of any faults that would allow me to say rejection was 
reasonable.
I think the business has made a fair point  that it hasnt had an opportunity to see if it can 
rectify any problems. We would normally think it reasonable  to allow  a business at least one 
opportunity to put matters right. 
The business also offered to look at exchanging  Mrs Bs car for another  one subject to 
finance and there being  no damage to the car she has. I know  that Mrs B has said she 
doesnt want this but I think  its a reasonable offer and it is still available to her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN4546095