K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance (BPF) havent upheld a claim he made  to them under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
background
Mr H bought a new carpet  from a merchant Ill call S in August  2016.  The carpet was fitted 
in October 2016.  He financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with BPF. 
In April 2017 he complained to S because he said the carpet was of unsatisfactory quality. 
They agreed and in June 2017 the carpet was replaced. But in March  of 2018 Mr H 
complained to them again. He said the replacement carpet was also of unsatisfactory 
quality. S agreed to replace the carpet  as a gesture of goodwill but Mr H wanted  a refund 
instead. So he raised a claim with BPF under section 75 as he said this entitled him to a like 
claim against the provider of credit as he would have against  the merchant.
BPF rejected his claim as they thought  Ss goodwill offer to replace the carpet was a 
reasonable one.
Mr H was disappointed  with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and 
our investigator provided an opinion.  She reviewed the photographs of the carpet that had 
been taken when Mr H complained in April 2017 and she thought there was clear  evidence 
of a fault in the carpet. She could therefore understand why S would take responsibility. But 
she didnt find the photographs of the current fault so persuasive. She noted that the carpet 
did seem  tufty but she didnt think that was evidence the carpet was faulty. She thought  the 
damage could  have been caused by Mr Hs pet. And as she didnt think there was evidence  
of a fault with the goods she didnt think  BPF had been unfair to reject Mr Hs claim as she 
could not identify a breach of the contract.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. He said S had relied  on the photograph hed 
sent to decide whether the carpet  was of satisfactory quality and he thought  they should 
have visited him. He said he didnt want a replacement carpet as there was no guarantee 
there would not be a further fault and he explained that the carpet came with a 20 year 
warranty and should not go faulty.  He therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H but I agree with her view of this complaint. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN48000032When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr Hs carpet was replaced in June  2017  but his complaint wasnt made until March  2018. 
Given the time that had elapsed I think the onus was on Mr H to demonstrate there was a 
fault with the carpet and that thered therefore  been a breach of the implied terms of his 
contract as the carpet was of unsatisfactory quality.
But Im not persuaded by the limited evidence Mr H has provided that the carpet  is faulty. 
The photographs are of a limited area and show some tufts but Im not persuaded this 
suggests the carpet is faulty and I think, on the evidence thats  been  supplied, that its more 
likely the carpet was damaged though reasonable wear  and tear. It has after all been in 
Mr Hs possession since June 2017.
So, as Im not persuaded this carpet has been  of unsatisfactory quality, I dont think BPF had 
sufficient evidence there had been a breach of contract and I therefore dont think they were 
unreasonable when rejecting Mr Hs claim.  Im not asking them  to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4800003