K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002 alongside  a credit card. Mr S says Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  
of the application form which shows Mr S selected PPI. And I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude  that Mr S was pressured  into taking PPI.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about his other 
means of making  repayments. But these points dont change  my decision.  I appreciate  that 
Mr S has told us he would  have received sick pay pay from his employer. But the PPI would  
have paid out in addition  to this. It would also have paid out in addition  to any redundancy 
pay Mr S may have been entitled. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything   
Mr S paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr S back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN42169212my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216921