K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Calpe  Insurance  Company Limited  dealt with a claim he
made under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr A bought a car insurance policy  through a broker. The insurer was Calpe.  In January
2018 Mr A was unfortunately involved in an incident  and his car was damaged. No other
cars were involved. He reported the incident  to Calpe.
In February 2018  Calpe settled Mr As claim as a total loss. Mr A complained  to Calpe  about
the following:
The market value  it paid for his car was too low.
It delayed dealing  with his claim.
Calpe  refused to cover additional  storage charges.
Calpe  instructed a salvage agent to begin  dismantling the car before he had the
opportunity to buy back the salvage and;
An agent  was rude to him during one of his calls when he made  his complaint.
Calpe said the market value it reached  was fair and line with the policy. It said the policy
didnt cover storage  costs.  It didnt receive the indemnity documents  it asked Mr A for until 
2 February 2018.  Calpe collected his car on 13 February 2018 and settled the storage costs
bill with the holding  garage. So Calpe deducted  this bill from the final settlement it paid Mr A.
It said it was reasonable  to take a few days to instruct a salvage  agent to collect his car. But
it agreed there was a small  delay. So it said it would deduct five days of storage costs at
£150 from the final settlement it paid Mr A.
Mr A remained unhappy,  so he asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator thought some of Mr As complaints should be upheld.  He thought the market
value Calpe had decided was fair.
And he didnt think Mr A had been  affected by any conflicting information Calpe gave him 
about salvage - as Mr A told him he wasnt in a position to buy back his car. Mr As car was 
subject to a finance agreement. So Calpe paid the total loss settlement to the finance 
company.
The investigator thought Calpe shouldve  offered  Mr A an interim settlement sooner. It 
had suggested  to Mr A that he couldnt  accept  an interim offer while making a complaint. 
The investigator didnt  think this was reasonable. He listened  to all of the call recordings 
provided by Calpe and thought an agent had been rude and unhelpful  toward Mr A. For this 
poor service he recommended Calpe pay Mr A £50 compensation. And he recommended  
Calpe pay a further £150 compensation because  it was clear that Mr A made many calls 
chasing progress  on his claim and complaint - and this had caused him distress  and 
inconvenience.
The investigator thought Calpe should  cover all of the storage costs  including  administration
fees charged by the holding garage  - as Calpe indemnified  Mr As claim. Calpe had 
deducted the full storage costs (minus £150  for the five day delay)  from the final settlement  it 
paid Mr A.
Ref: DRN40630662Mr A accepted the investigators findings.  Calpe accepted all but one of the investigators
findings. It said Mr As policy clearly says Calpe  doesnt cover storage costs.  It wasnt  in a
position to indemnify Mr As claim until it received the verification documents  from him. This
didnt happen  until 2 February  2018.  Calpe said up until it received the indemnity documents, 
Mr A told it he intended to have his car repaired at a body shop. Calpe doesnt arrange 
repairs. So it had no reason to consider instructing a salvage  agent before then. Once it was 
able to indemnify  the claim,  it arranged  for a salvage  agent  to collect  Mr As car. For the 
small delay  its prepared  to offer a further  £100  to Mr A. This is in addition  to the £150 it 
already waived when it settled the storage companys bill.
Our investigator thought Calpe shouldve offered Mr A the option to move his car to free
storage sooner. Calpe  didnt agree. It says it only has one call where Mr A mentioned
storage costs. The next day Mr A said he made  arrangements for his car to be repaired at a
garage. So Calpe had no reason to believe  his car was still incurring storage charges. It says
it was illogical for it to collect Mr As car until it was aware it was a total loss  or before Mr A
submitted basic documentation to support his claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 December 2018. I agreed that Calpe should pay Mr A 
£200 compensation for its poor service. And I thought it had decided a market  value for 
Mr As car in a reasonable way. 
But I thought Calpes proposal  to pay an additional  £100 toward  storage  costs was fair and 
reasonable - to reflect the delay it had caused  in arranging recovery after it indemnified 
Mr As claim.
Calpe accepted my provisional decision. Mr A didnt accept my provisional  decision.  Ive 
addressed Mr As additional comments in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether Calpe acted reasonably by deducting the 
storage costs from the settlement  sum it paid Mr A.
Mr As policy  with Calpe  says;
Your policy does not provide cover in respect of storage  charges which may accrue
daily. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it moved to a place of
free and safe storage  as soon as possible but you will be liable for any storage costs
incurred to that point. It may be necessary for you to settle  these charges before your
car will be released and any delays in settlement will result  in on-going and 
increasing storage  charges.
I think Calpes policy wording is clear.  It says it provides a lower costs  policy  which excludes
cover for storage charges.  Its for the customer to provide an estimate for repairs. If the
estimate indicates the car isnt economical  to repair, Calpe will arrange for free storage.
So I dont  think Calpe  is responsible for storage costs Mr A incurred before it received the
documents it asked  for to verify Mr As claim. It requested these documents the day after he
Ref: DRN40630663reported the incident. 
Although Mr A provided an estimate for repairs before, Calpe didnt  receive the verification 
documents from Mr A until 2 February 2018. It was at this point that it was able to deal with 
Mr As claim as a total loss. And so I think it was responsible for storage costs  from 2 
February 2018.
Mr A said he returned the verification documents to Calpe  before 2 February 2018. He hasnt 
provided anything  to support this. Calpes claim notes show  that on 22 January  2018 it 
spoke to Mr A and he told it he was out of the country for the next two weeks  - so he 
wouldnt be able to return the documents before then. On 31 January 2018  Calpe emailed  
Mr A to chase him for the verification  documents as hed told it he was back  in the country. 
Calpe reviewed the verification documents on 3 February 2018. So based  on the information 
available to me, I think Calpe received Mr As verification  documents on 2 February  2018.  
Mr A said he raised his concern about  storage costs  several  times  with Calpe. Calpe has 
provided recordings of the calls. 
The day after the incident happened, Mr A told Calpe that his car was accruing daily storage 
charges. The agent  told Mr A that a claims handler  would be assigned to deal with his claim.  
The agent  said Calpe couldnt advise him on what to do with regard to storage costs.  But 
said Mr A would need to return  an accident report form.  
In the next call Calpe told Mr A that hed need to send an estimate for repairs.  The agent 
explained that Mr A could  reclaim up to £100  back from any recovery costs he paid. Mr A 
explained that he had roadside assistance  with a dealership garage and was going  to 
arrange for his car to be recovered to a dealership garage where  storage  costs were £20 a 
day. He told Calpe the same garage would  provide  an estimate for repairs.
Calpe explained  that Mr A would be responsible  for these costs   but entitled to reclaim  
£100 of the recovery costs  under  his policy.
In another call Mr A queried the total loss settlement Calpe said it would pay. The agent 
explained that the final settlement included a deduction for storage charges as these arent 
covered under the policy. Mr A raised his complaint.
So I agree with Mr A that he raised the issue of storage  costs  with Calpe a number of times. 
But I dont think this changes my decision. As Mr A didnt return the verification documents 
Calpe needed  to indemnify the claim until 2 February 2018,  I think Mr A was aware that he 
was responsible for storage  costs up until then. 
Mr A said Calpe hasnt dealt with his claim  for £100 reimbursement of the recovery  charge 
he paid. In a call Calpe asked Mr A if he had an invoice to show what he paid for recovery. 
Mr A said he didnt.  He said he had a bank statement  as he paid for it over the phone. Calpe 
told Mr A hed need to provide an invoice or receipt for Calpe to consider. I think  its 
reasonable for Calpe  to ask for proof of payment when considering a claim for recovery 
reimbursement.
Although Calpe received Mr As verification documents on 2 February 2018, a salvage agent  
didnt collect Mr As car until 13 February 2018.  I dont think its fair that Mr A should  cover all 
of the storage costs during this period. Calpes offer to pay £100  in addition to the £150 
means its covered  the equivalent  of 10 days storage at £25 a day. There  were 11 days from 
Ref: DRN406306642 February to 13 February 2018. I think its reasonable  to allow  a couple of days  for Calpe to 
arrange a salvage agent. 
So I think Calpes proposal is fair and reasonable - as it means Mr A essentially will have 
paid for storage up until the day he provided Calpe with the verification documents it needed 
to indemnify his claim. This is in line with the terms of Mr As policy.
I understand Mr A believes Calpe  has treated  him poorly. He was dealing with a 
bereavement at the time and he was without  a car. Dealing  with a claim will inevitably 
involve a degree of inconvenience. And I can understand why it was more difficult at this 
time for Mr A. But I think Calpes proposal  in addition to what  its already paid in relation to 
storage charges is enough to put things right. And I think  its reasonable that it should  pay 
Mr A £200  compensation for its poor service  which both parties accept. So I dont think  
Calpe needs to do more than this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint. I require Calpe Insurance
Company Ltd to do the following:
Pay Mr A £200 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its poor service. 
Pay Mr A £100 of the total amount it deducted  from the final settlement sum for 
storage costs. This is in addition to the £150 its already waived.
Calpe Insurance  Company Limited must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on
which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Calpe Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should
also give Mr A a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4063066