K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Skipton Building  Society  sold him a lifetime  ISA (LISA) which,  in his 
opinion, was unfit for purpose. 
background
Mr K applied online for a LISA with Skipton around June 2017. Mr K was attracted to the 
product by the government bonus of 25% thats  payable on balances deposited within  the 
LISA. Mr K set his sights on using  the LISA  and its bonus to help him with the purchase  of a 
new build  property. It eventually became  obvious that he wouldnt be able to use the bonus  
in the way hed expected to. It became apparent that the presence  of HMRCs 90 day rule  
meant he couldnt use the LISA  fund on the initial 5% deposit  for the new build. As I 
understand the completion date for his new build kept being pushed back. And the 
homebuilder was asking for the deposit  for the property well in advance of the scheduled 
completion date.
Mr K doesnt  think the LISA was fit for his purpose. He doesnt think  Skipton did enough to 
explain this product at the very outset.  And he doesnt think  they did enough to resolve his 
concerns once these  were raised with them.
Skipton didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Overall  they felt theyd acted  fairly  and met their 
obligations when  selling  a product like this.
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  He didnt feel that Skipton gave Mr K the 
wrong impression  about  how the LISA worked.  And ultimately they werent  responsible for 
the disappointment  he eventually  suffered. But he did think Skipton couldve managed 
Mr Ks expectations better, once his concerns were  raised with them. So he proposed  £100  
compensation to Mr K to reflect this. He recognised that hed likely be disappointed with this 
level of compensation.  But he explained  his role wasnt to punish  Skipton but to decide if he 
thought theyd acted fairly  overall.  
Skipton was prepared  to accept the investigators view. But Mr K wasnt.  He remains  very 
unhappy with the situation. He has told our service  the award proposed  doesnt  come 
anywhere near to offering the compensation he believes hes entitled to. He feels  their 
failings in handling things correctly have  had a substantial financial impact on him and his 
partner. Mr K feels very strongly about  one particular call with Skipton. He thinks this call is 
evidence that he and his partner were  misled and given incorrect  information. Another key 
concern Mr K has is Skiptons supposed  hesitance  in providing certain call recordings during 
this whole process. 
In light of the above this case has now been  passed  to me to look at. It should  be noted that 
Mr Ks partner  has also brought a complaint to our service about the alleged mis-sale of her 
LISA. Both were sold at the same  time.  Whilst these are near identical complaints, each 
complaint will be addressed under their respective case reference numbers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46830472A lot of evidence has been filed with our service.  And I fully appreciate  this is an incredibly 
sensitive and upsetting case for Mr K. Whilst I have carefully  considered everything that has 
been submitted  to our service, my decision will focus upon what I think are the key points in 
dispute. 
The first thing to stress is that this was a non-advised  sale by Skipton.  This means  Skipton  
needed to provide clear information about the product available  to Mr K. But they didnt need 
to learn about  his intentions and recommend the most suitable product for his needs. 
Skiptons obligations to Mr K were in reality  not overly extensive. They just needed to give 
Mr K the key facts  about a LISA  and to give him access to the full terms and conditions.  As I 
understand they did do this. 
The crux of the issue is based around the 90 day rule. Mr K thinks  this rule was heavily 
buried into the terms and conditions. He says he opened a financial product without being 
given the full rules  and terms. I appreciate  there was no reference  to this on Skiptons 
homepage for the LISA  products and instead this information was in a key facts document.  
On the evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied that Skipton  made it clear that the LISA  is used for 
the deposit for the mortgage, regardless of whether its used for a new build or an older 
house. They  stressed its the deposit  for the actual mortgage. I dont  think Skipton ever gave 
Mr K the wrong idea about how the LISA  was meant to work. I realise the disappointment  
Mr K experienced in due course when  he realised the LISA  was meant to be used alongside 
the mortgage deposit upon completion. But I cant hold Skipton at fault for this.
This type of product  probably wasnt suitable  for Mr Ks circumstances, in which  he wanted 
the flexibility to use the LISA  and the government bonus towards the initial deposit for his 
new build. Given the specifics of the off-plan new build transaction  Mr K had entered into, he 
wasnt able to use the LISA how hed wanted.  
A lot of emphasis has been given  to a particular call which took place between Mr K and 
Skipton. I have listened to this recording. But I have also listened to a recording of a call 
which took place  just before Mr K and his partner each paid £4000  into their accounts. 
During this call Im satisfied Skipton gave correct advice and clearly explained about the 
90 day rule.
Mr K feels, given the LISA was a new product, that he and his partner have been guinea 
pigs. And that staff at Skipton  didnt know or understand the full terms and conditions  of a 
LISA. This has clearly  been an incredibly stressful situation for Mr K. And for that, Im truly 
sorry he had to go through  all of this. But my role is to decide if Skipton has acted fairly  in 
this whole matter.  Overall I just dont  think I can hold Skipton responsible for what  has 
happened here. They havent breached any regulations or treated Mr K unfairly.
Just like the investigator I think Skipton couldve handled things better, once Mr K raised his 
concerns with them. And so I think hes right to propose a sum of £100 compensation to 
reflect this. The reason I dont think its appropriate  to increase this amount is because 
ultimately I dont think Skipton did anything wrong in the sale of this product. I simply think  
how matters were handled once Mr K raised  his concerns couldve been dealt with better. I 
realise how very disappointed  Mr K will be with this decision. But Im afraid my role is simply 
to consider if Skipton has acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr K. And ultimately I feel they 
did. 
Ref: DRN46830473my final decision
My final decision is that Skipton Building  Society should pay Mr K £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4683047