K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a savings account he previously held was closed  without his consent. 
So when he recently deposited a large  sum of money  into what he thought  was the 
savings account,  it didnt accrue  any interest because Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
says its a current account. Mr S wants the interest he should have received on his savings 
to be paid to him.
background
Mr S took out a current account and a savings account with Barclays  in 2014. He put £5,000 
into the current account and £20,000  into the savings account. He says subsequently the 
savings account  was closed and the money transferred to the current  account  without his 
knowledge. 
In 2018 Mr S wanted to deposit  a large  sum of money and he put it into what  he thought was 
the original savings account. But as the account  he held was actually a current account there 
was no interest applicable,  so he says his savings have been held in that account for six 
months without accruing  any interest.
Barclays says it has always sent Mr S regular statements  of his accounts including  a closing 
statement for the savings  account in 2015. It says it did have discussions  with him about 
alternative savings  accounts  when he deposited  the large sum in 2018  and doesnt believe 
its made any errors over this matter.  
Mr S also said that Barclays had a number  of opportunities  when he was in a branch,  to 
tell him the money was sitting in a non-interest bearing account,  including when he applied  
for new debit cards.  He said this was fraud . 
As he was unhappy  with Barclays response he brought his complaint to us.
One of investigators  looked into the matter  and said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
said:
A savings account that was opened in 2014 was closed in 2015 and the balance  
transferred to Mr S current account. She thought  it was most likely that Mr S had 
closed the account.
She hadnt seen  any reason why Barclays would  close  any accounts  so she was 
satisfied Mr S had requested the closure.  
Mr S had received  a number of statements for his current  account that showed no 
interest was being applied  to the account.
Barclays had shown  that Mr S was provided  with a number of options  for how to 
increase the return  on his money. One such meeting took place the same day as the 
money was deposited.
There was no evidence that Barclays had acted unfairly or provided incorrect  
information.
Mr S disagreed. In summary he said:
There was no evidence to show that he opened  two accounts in 2014 or that he 
closed any accounts. He said he took his savings account offline because  he had 
Ref: DRN43156652received some suspicious emails and Barclays hadnt investigated that matter. He 
thought Barclays  had closed the account when he told it about the emails. 
We hadnt taken  into account the meetings he had when he was told the interest rate 
on his account  was 0.3%.
He opened  an Australian dollar  account himself in 2018 not 2014.
He complained about the matter as soon as he received a statement that showed he 
hadnt received  any interest. He wouldnt have left such a large sum of money 
earning no interest.
He wouldnt have  applied for a new debit  card for an account if hed already closed it. 
As no resolution could  be found the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
I can see Mr S has asked  us to provide information  he believes Barclays may hold which 
might have a bearing on his complaint.  And I can see weve provided Mr S with the 
documentation we have on file under his data subject access request. So Im satisfied that 
Mr S has had the opportunity to make  further submissions.
And I can see Mr S has raised  a new complaint against Barclays relating  to another  account.  
So, to be clear here what Im considering is Mr S complaint about  the lack of interest on his 
recent savings deposit. 
And I wont be looking at Mr S comments about  the way this service  has dealt with his 
complaint to date as this is being  dealt  with separately, and not part of my role in determining  
this issue with Barclays. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive seen how strongly  Mr S feels about 
this situation.  He has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. 
I hope the fact that I do not respond  in a similar  detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution  service, we are tasked  with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality.  In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
Mr S says that Barclays made an error  when  opening  two accounts for him in 2014 as thats  
not what he asked  for. He says  to the best of his knowledge  he didnt close the savings 
account in 2015 and assumed he only held that account when he deposited funds into it in 
2018. He says he discussed the account in a branch and the staff told him it had an interest  
rate of 0.3%.  
And I have  some sympathy  for the position Mr S is now in as he would have expected to 
have accrued some interest on the sum he deposited in 2018. But I dont think Barclays has 
done anything  wrong here  which I know will disappoint Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
The history  of both accounts
In September  2014 Barclays sent Mr S two letters to confirm  the opening  of new accounts, 
ending in 6938 and 5659. One of the letters confirmed that account was called an everyday 
saver account whereas  the other letter  while it didnt refer to a current  account, did tell 
Mr S to set up any standing orders and direct  debits on the account and said he would 
receive a debit card and PIN within the following few days. 
Ref: DRN43156653So, Im satisfied Barclays did open  two accounts for Mr S and made him aware that there 
were two separate accounts.  And I think the reference to debit cards and PIN numbers in 
one of the letters made it reasonably clear  that account was a current  account.  
Barclays has said that the current account was opened online and the savings account 
opened with a cheque deposit of £20,000.  But Mr S says he didnt  open  two accounts with 
Barclays in 2014.  He says there no evidence of any account opening  forms. But, on balance,  
I think its highly unlikely  Barclays would  have set up the accounts without some  
authorisation from Mr S  particularly when both accounts were opened with large  deposits  
of money. I can understand that with the passage of time events from 2014 may have 
become somewhat difficult  to remember, but I dont  think, on balance,  that Barclays  made 
any errors in the setting  up of the two accounts. 
Ive seen from a statement in February 2015 Mr S still held the two accounts  and how in 
March 2015, a payment of £20,031 was made  to the current account from savings and 
investment ref [location].  Thereafter a cheque payment of £23,631  was made  from the 
current account. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its more  likely than not Mr S did 
close his savings account and transfer  the funds to the current account.  
Ive also seen a copy of a statement  dated 5 March 2015  which was sent following the 
closure of the savings  account. The statement headed your everyday  saver statement 
listed the transactions made on the account since its opening. It showed an initial deposit of 
£20,000 made at a Barclays  branch,  and ended on 5 March 2015  with the payment to the 
current account and then account  closed with a nil balance.
I think the statement  would have made  Mr S clearly aware that hed held a savings  account  
with Barclays which was then closed in March 2015.  So I cant  safely  say Barclays  has made  
an error there and I think its carried out the instructions it was given regarding  the accounts  
as requested. Even if I were to accept  Mr S didnt close  the account I think  he was made 
aware that it had been closed. And I would have expected him to have contacted Barclays  to 
raise a query  when  he got the statement, if he believed the account had been closed in 
error. 
Should the account have accrued interest?
Ive seen copies  of the regular current account statements Barclays sent to Mr S which 
clearly stated under credit interest this account  does not pay credit interest.  So Im 
satisfied Barclays has been clear that the account isnt interest  bearing  and I dont think its 
provided incorrect or misleading information  there. 
Its unfortunate that Mr S still believed this was a savings account, and I can understand that 
he would  have been unlikely to deposit such a large  sum  even for a short  time, into an 
account that didnt benefit from any credit interest.  But I dont think  that was Barclays fault 
as I think it did make it clear the account Mr S was using didnt accrue interest.  
Reference to 0.3% interest and discussions about other savings accounts
Barclays has provided screenshots  to show that Mr S had looked into other  savings 
accounts with it shortly after he made the deposit.  Mr S doesnt recall this but does say that 
the branch staff clearly informed him the account  he held had an interest rate of 0.3%. Im 
Ref: DRN43156654not able to confirm the content  of these discussions, and both parties  have different 
recollections of events  although clearly some discussions  did take place. 
I think, on balance,  its likely there was a misunderstanding  about what accounts  branch staff 
referred to when they provided specific information  about interest rates.  Theres no 
suggestion Mr S was provided with any written confirmation of rates so I think the discussion 
would have been about savings accounts  in general. But theres  no evidence to show that 
Barclays deliberately  told Mr S his current account  accrued interest  at a certain rate. 
Barclays has confirmed that it did have accounts  with that rate of interest at the time, so I 
think  on balance, its likely there was a misunderstanding about the rates  on offer for 
various accounts. Its unfortunate that Mr S took any information he received  to have applied 
to the account  he held,  but I cant safely say, from what Ive seen, that Barclays  did misled  
him.
Closing comments
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr S. But it brings to an end what we can do, in trying  to 
resolve his dispute  with Barclays  informally.  Im really sorry were not able to help Mr S any 
further with this particular issue.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4315665