K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) has declined his claim under a 
group income protection policy.
background
Mr P is a member of his employers group income protection scheme with Generali.  Hes 
been absent from his job, a manual role, since April 2017. This was initially as a result of a 
problem with his right shoulder. The policy has a 52 week deferred period  and a claim was 
submitted to Generali in early  June 2018.  Mr Ps claim was declined by Generali. They said 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to show hed been  medically unable  or was currently  unable, 
to carry out his occupation.  So Generali said Mr P didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity, as they didnt  accept hed been  unable  to work throughout the deferred period. 
Mr P raised a complaint with Generali as he said the assessment theyd arranged didnt 
provide a true picture of his symptoms. Generali considered the complaint but didnt uphold 
it. They said Mr P had a number of longstanding  medical conditions,  back  pain and a heart 
condition, but these didnt appear to be preventing his return  to work, as they were 
adequately managed. The cause  of Mr Ps absence was his right shoulder problem, but 
treatment, ultrasound guided injections, had been  beneficial. And before the end of the 
deferred period  he was capable of undertaking an alternative role.
Generali also said the Functional Capacity Evaluation (FCE)  theyd arranged  in September  
2018, to assess  Mr Ps physical capabilities and his ability to perform  his role, and an 
occupational health report dated October 2018, both suggested his functional  abilities and 
his ability  to manage his pain were  such that he could work in an alternative capacity. So as 
Generali maintained that Mr P didnt satisfy the policy definition of incapacity, they didnt  
uphold his complaint.
Mr P then complained to our service. 
Generali reviewed Mr Ps complaint again when he complained to our service. They 
maintained that on the basis of the available evidence Mr Ps absence from April 2017  was 
as a result  of pain in his right shoulder.  And as before the end of the deferred  period his right 
shoulder had improved so he could undertake an alternative role, he didnt meet  the policy 
definition of incapacity.
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and said before any payments were due hed 
need to meet the policy definition of incapacity  from when he was first absent in April 2017 
throughout the 52 week deferred period, until 2018, and then on an ongoing  basis.
As Mr Ps claim wasnt submitted until June 2018, after the end of the deferred  period, our 
investigator said Generali  didnt have a chance  to make any enquiries  or any assessments 
until more than a year after Mr P was first absent  from work. While  she considered the FCE 
assessment Generali obtained she also considered the other, earlier medical  evidence.  She 
said Mr P had an occupational health assessment in June  2017  and a physiotherapist 
prepared a report in September 2017.  And both of these agreed that due to the manual 
nature of his work Mr P couldnt carry out his occupation due to his shoulder problems. So 
she agreed he met the definition of incapacity for the first few months he was off work. 
Ref: DRN49469272But in November 2017 the physiotherapist said Mr Ps symptoms  had significantly reduced, 
and in February 2018 that his shoulder  symptoms seemed to have settled. And in April 2018  
she noted that Mr P himself reported that his shoulder problem had resolved. So our 
investigator was satisfied the evidence didnt support Mr P remaining incapable of carrying 
out his usual occupation throughout the deferred period due to his shoulder  problem.
By April 2018 Mr P had a new medical problem, an issue with his lower back. Our 
investigator accepted  that the occupational health assessment in April 2018  said he was 
incapable of carrying  out his occupation  because of this. But she didnt accept the evidence  
had shown hed been incapable of working non-stop up to this point,  from the time hed been 
signed off in April 2017. And because of this she didnt think  Generali needed to pay any 
benefits. Although,  she did say Mr P might have been  able to start a new claim due to his 
new problem, but this would be subject to starting the deferred period again, and no benefits 
would be payable until after a further 52 week period of absence.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy definition of incapacity is As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable 
of performing the Material and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not 
carrying out any other Work or occupation. 
The deferred  period under the policy  is 52 weeks. The policy  states that benefit is payable - 
once a member has continuously  satisfied the relevant  definition  of incapacity for a period of 
time greater  than the deferred period. The policy says Generali, at its discretion, may link 
periods of absence  caused by the same illness or injury, subject to conditions, for the 
purposes of completing  the deferred period. So, to be eligible for benefit Mr P needed  to be 
incapacitated by the same injury or illness, throughout the deferred  period. And what I have 
to consider is whether, on the basis of the available evidence, Mr P met the policy  definition  
of incapacity throughout  the deferred  period and whether his continuing absence was due to 
same injury  which first caused  his absence.
Mr P was first absent from work  in early  April 2017.  When he completed the claim  form, 
which was submitted to Generali in June  2018, he gives the reason for his absence  as right-
sided shoulder  pain and severe  left-sided sciatica. But in answer to the question are any 
other factors contributing  to your absence from work? He answers yes And goes on to say 
started with frozen shoulder, now have severe back and leg pain. So Mr P acknowledged 
that his condition had changed since he was first absent from work.
Mr Ps medical records show that he suffers from a number  of medical conditions. Its clear 
that he has a history of lower back pain, and he had a discectomy in 1999.  He also suffers  
from aortic  stenosis and is awaiting surgery, but theres no suggestion  this is contributing  to 
his absence from work.
When Mr P was first absence from work in April 2017 this was due to a problem with his right 
shoulder. I accept that Mr P was unfit to work  due to this problem at the start of his absence.   
And the medical  evidence indicates that for some time Mr P suffered from a lot of pain in his 
right shoulder, which wasnt helped by medication  or two steroid injections. He had an 
Ref: DRN49469273occupational health assessment in June 2017 which agreed he was unfit for work due to his 
shoulder problem.
He was referred to a pain clinic and in September 2017 he had an ultrasound guided 
injection in his right shoulder. He was reviewed at the pain clinic in November 2017  and it 
was noted his shoulder symptoms had significantly improved, his range of movement had 
improved and he didnt  need painkillers during the day, although he still had pain at night if 
he didnt take painkillers. He had a further  ultrasound guided injection in early December 
2017 and when he was reviewed, in early  February  2018, before the end of the deferred  
period, its noted  that his shoulder  pain had settled after the injection and he was pleased  
with the outcome.
Mr P was referred for an occupational health assessment in April 2018. At this time he
said that his right shoulder problem had virtually resolved  and he had good movement and 
function. But he gave  a three  week history  of left sided back pain radiating into his left leg. 
So his back  pain started in March 2018, almost a year after he was first absent  from work. 
Although he was considered to be unfit to work  in April 2018 this was due to his back  
problem rather than his right shoulder. And in June  2018 the physiotherapist treating Mr P 
confirmed it was his back pain that prevented him returning to work.
Mr P has said Generali based their decision to decline his claim on an assessment carried  
out 17 months after the start of his absence,  which he thinks is unfair. I dont think Generali 
did anything wrong  in requesting an assessment of Mr Ps condition  after they received his 
claim form in June  2018. This was done  as they didnt feel they had enough medical 
evidence to reach a decision on his claim. Mr P was also unhappy  with the FCE assessment 
as hed taken  his prescribed medication before the assessment, so he didnt  think his 
performance was a true reflection of his ability to work. Generali  considered this but said that 
this simply showed Mr P was able to manage  his pain,  with medication, to enable  him to 
work in an alternative  role. I think this is a reasonable conclusion to reach  given the report  
findings and Mr Ps comments.
When Generali responded to Mr Ps complaint  in their letter  dated 28 November 2018 they 
refer to the physiotherapists report from June 2018, which stated his right shoulder had 
improved and his back was now what prevented him returning to work. But they also refer to 
an occupational  health report dated  October  2018,  which says Mr P has limited mobility  
which would prevent him performing his current role, but he was capable of an alternative 
role. And so didnt satisfy  the policy definition of incapacity.
The report  says Mr Ps level of pain and function in his right shoulder remained  unchanged 
despite the treatment hed received, and in fact his shoulder had deteriorated. So this is a 
change from the earlier reports which indicate his shoulder problem had largely resolved, 
and it was his back which prevented him working.  Mr P also reported  having been told he 
had a disc protrusion at L4 together  with degenerative changes,  but further investigations 
would only be carried out after hed had an aortic valve replacement, and he was on the 
waiting list for this. The report says Mr P would only be fit to return  to work in an 
administrative role, if one was available.
I dont dispute  that Mr P has suffered from considerable problems with his right shoulder and 
that he has ongoing health problems.  But his medical condition  now isnt evidence of his 
condition throughout the deferred  period. And based  on the available  medical evidence I 
think the right shoulder problem, which first caused  Mr Ps absence  from work had, following 
treatment, resolved or largely settled  by early February 2018. Then in March  2018 Mr P 
Ref: DRN49469274developed left sided back pain, a new condition, and the medical  evidence  confirms this is 
what continues to prevent  Mr Ps return to work. I appreciate that Mr P has said his 
employers havent  been able to offer him an alternative lighter role which would allow  him to 
return to work. This isnt something that Generali can get involved in and Mr P needs to 
discuss this with his employers. 
The policy says Generali may, at its discretion, link periods  of absence caused by the same 
illness or injury for the purposes of completing the deferred period. But I dont think this is 
something they needed to consider in this case,  as based on the medical  evidence  the initial 
cause of Mr Ps absence,  had resolved or largely  settled before  the end of the deferred  
period. 
I understand that this will be disappointing  to Mr P, but I dont  accept that Mr P met the policy  
definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. So I dont think Generali did anything 
wrong in declining his claim and I wont  be asking  them to do anything. Although  as Mr Ps 
back problems appear to be ongoing  he should consider whether he is eligible to submit  a 
further claim to Generali  in relation to this condition.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ps complaint 
against Assicurazioni Generali SpA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4946927