K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont grant a term extension to her 
interest only mortgage on a repayment  basis. She also complains it transferred her 
mortgage from her previous provider and reduced  the outstanding  term of the mortgage 
without her knowing. She says her circumstances at the time meant she wouldve been  able 
to afford the mortgage over a longer  term. 
background
Ms B took out an interest only mortgage  in 1999 with another provider. She says the term 
was 25 years so it was due to end in 2024.  At the time the mortgage was redeemed,  in 
January 2012,  there was an outstanding balance of around £252,866 and her monthly 
repayments were around £1,160. At that time, the mortgage was on a standard  variable rate 
(SVR) of 5.34%.
Ms B says in 2012, Barclays took over her existing mortgage with her previous provider. She 
said Barclays approached  her to make  the transfer   and she believed  it was on a like for 
like basis as part of an ongoing  merger.  Barclays has said, whilst it did transfer other  
mortgage accounts Ms B held in June  2012 as part of its merger  with the previous provider, 
Ms B applied for a re-mortgage for this borrowing prior to the merger. So it wouldnt have 
been transferred  as the same product. 
Barclays has said Ms B took out the mortgage over the phone on a non-advised basis when 
she called  in December  2011. The mortgage was for around  £253,233  part was on an 
interest only basis (around £249,000) and part was on a repayment basis (£3,913).  The 
mortgage was set up over a term of seven years and two months so its due to end in 2019. 
And it was on a tracker  rate of 3.47%  above  Barclays base rate which  was 0.5% at the time. 
As part of the terms of the mortgage, Ms B was also required to open  a current  account with 
Barclays. The monthly mortgage repayments  were  initially around £877.
Barclays has sent us documentation from the time the mortgage was set up  including a 
signed declaration from Ms B, the mortgage offer and records of the telephone application it 
says took place. Ms Bs told us she found  things very confusing at the time the mortgage 
was being set up, but shes adamant she didnt apply for it. Shes given us letters  she 
received from a third party conveyancer which she thinks  shows  Barclays  instigated a 
mortgage transfer. And she thinks the merger had already taken place. 
In January 2018, Ms B got in touch  with Barclays to ask about  extending  her interest  only 
term by five years. She explained this mortgaged property is currently rented out  and her 
rental income will continue to be paid towards the monthly repayment. Shes  said she also 
owns another property  which she lives in and doesnt have  any borrowing against. In at least  
five years,  she planned to sell her unencumbered  property to pay off the outstanding amount 
on this mortgage.  And she doesnt  want to do that right now as shell  have to relocate when 
she does and her son is still in further  education. Ms Bs since  told us she wants the 
mortgage term extended by 18 to 20 years  on a repayment basis. And shes  also said shell 
look to take out borrowing against  the property shes currently  living in to pay off the interest 
only mortgage with Barclays   instead  of selling it. 
Ref: DRN47798222Barclays declined the term extension.  It said it couldnt accept Ms B selling her other 
property in five years as a repayment vehicle as it didnt meet its lending criteria. It also told 
us its unlikely Ms B would meet its affordability checks  for a mortgage on a repayment basis  
in her current circumstances. So its suggested  she looks  to refinance elsewhere. And it 
thinks Ms Bs been given  sufficient information since her mortgage started to make her 
aware of the term. Barclays  has said it would  give Ms B around one year to mortgage or sell 
the property shes  living in but she needs  to keep it updated with the progress. It recognised  
it hadnt been clear  when  Ms B first got in touch about extending her mortgage term and 
offered her £200  compensation  for this.
As Ms B remained  unhappy with Barclays, she asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she thought Ms B approached Barclays to 
re-mortgage at the end of 2011 and the mortgage offer it made was based  on answers she 
gave during the phone call. She said she thought  Barclays  had treated Ms B fairly  and the 
offer itd made  was reasonable. As Ms B didnt agree with the investigators findings,  the 
complaint was passed to me to reach  a decision  on.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2019.  I didnt  think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  in summary because I thought:
Ms Bs mortgage started in January 2012   which was before Barclays transferred 
customers accounts in June 2012.  It was likely  a conversation took place  over the phone  
with Ms B during which she gave the details recorded in the mortgage  application  record.  
And she signed the mortgage offer declaration and direct debit instruction. So it was 
more likely Ms B applied for a mortgage with Barclays  and it wasnt  transferred as part of 
the overall merger.  And Barclays didnt make  an error in not transferring the mortgage on 
the same  terms as her previous provider.  
Ms B wanted to re-mortgage with Barclays to bring down her monthly outgoings as she 
was experiencing some  financial difficulties at the time of the application and she was in 
a debt management plan. 
The mortgage offer and yearly statements explained the mortgage term and the 
outstanding term each year. It also reminded customers they had to repay  the capital at 
the end of the term. So if Ms B was led to believe the mortgage  term was significantly 
longer, I thought she wouldve got in touch with Barclays sooner than she did.
The mortgage was taken out on a non-advised basis  so Barclays  didnt make  a 
recommendation to Ms B. And I thought it gave her enough information, clearly and 
fairly, so that she could  make  up her own mind  about whether to go ahead.
Barclays hadnt acted  unfairly by saying it would need to carry out an affordability  
assessment before  agreeing to a repayment mortgage. This is because  Ms B was asking 
it to alter the terms of her mortgage  from interest only to repayment, so its likely her 
monthly repayments would increase  and thats likely to be material to her overall 
affordability of the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN47798223Barclays hadnt acted  unfairly by not extending  Ms Bs existing interest only residential  
mortgage as the property isnt her main residence (and shes renting it out). And its 
reasonable to expect  her to take out a buy-to-let  mortgage rather  than extend  her 
residential one if she wants the arrangement to continue longer term.
 Barclays offer to give Ms B 12 months from the date the term was meant to end to 
explore her options is fair. And if it wanted to see evidence  of marketing, viewings and 
offers or to liaise  with the estate  agent about this  or see evidence Ms Bs approaching 
other lenders  regarding a mortgage  I didnt think it would  be unreasonable.  
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. Both 
parties let us know Ms B had redeemed the mortgage in June 2019. Ms B said she didnt 
accept my provisional decision and made several  further comments  which  Ive summarised:
She redeemed her mortgage  by jointly re-mortgaging the property she lives in. And this 
has cost her financially.
 
Shes found it difficult providing  evidence to support what  shes  told us as she was 
approached by Barclays to re-mortgage.  And Barclays hasnt given her evidence of the 
phone call that took place when the mortgage was taken out  for example transcripts  of 
the call or fact find information. Ms B thinks we should ask Barclays for this evidence. 
The interest rate with the previous mortgage  provider was high but she couldve 
swapped to a new deal.
She signed the mortgage documentation  without  reading it as the mortgage advisor on 
the phone  told her it was the same terms as the mortgage she already held. 
She doesnt think Barclays wouldve given someone in her circumstances the borrowing 
and she doesnt  think she wouldve passed credit  checks. So it mustve been approved 
as part of a transfer  of business. And shes asked us to look into the re-mortgage 
application in detail including why it was approved and what information  she gave to 
Barclays at the time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  very carefully about the 
further comments Ms Bs made. I know itll be disappointing for her but I still dont  think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Im glad to hear Ms Bs found another way to redeem the mortgage in question   by re-
mortgaging the property she currently lives in. I appreciate this has cost her financially  and 
possibly wasnt an option she initially  wanted  to take. Instead, I know  she wouldve preferred 
to extend her existing  mortgage with Barclays  or switch to a repayment mortgage. But for 
the reasons set out in my provisional  decision and above, I dont  think  Barclays acted 
unfairly by declining Ms Bs requests  or by saying it would need  to carry out an affordability 
assessment. And I think its acted  reasonably  by giving her the space to explore her other  
options and re-mortgage her residential property. So I dont think  it needs to do anything 
further  or is responsible for the cost and inconvenience Ms Bs experienced in redeeming 
her mortgage.
Ref: DRN47798224Ms Bs made several comments about the mortgage she took out with Barclays.  In 
particular, she doesnt think it shouldve been approved  in her circumstances. So she thinks  
it must  have  only been approved because it was part of a transfer  and not an application 
she made. And she thinks Barclays should  give us more information to support what its 
said. But Im satisfied from the information Barclays has already given us that an application 
for a re-mortgage was completed over the phone with Ms B. And I dont think  I need  to see 
anything further  in this case.  So, Im not persuaded by what  Ms Bs said or anything  else Ive 
seen in this case  that the re-mortgage was part of an overall  merger  rather than an 
application by Ms B.
I appreciate Ms Bs asked us to look in more detail at the mortgage  that was taken out in 
2012  and why it was approved. But she hasnt previously complained  about  the lending  
being approved.  Instead I can see shes previously said she thinks  she was in a better  
financial position in 2012 to have  taken out a mortgage over a longer term. So if she now 
thinks the lending  shouldnt have been provided  in 2012, thats something shell need to 
raise with Barclays directly in the first instance.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4779822