K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has overcharged him on his loan.
background
Mr G took out a Lloyds  loan for £14,000 with 60 agreed repayments  of £395.94. He says he 
was overcharged  and made  more  that the agreed repayments. Mr G says he took payment 
holidays. But Lloyds  did not advise him of the additional charges and so didnt act in line with 
the account terms and conditions.  He also says Lloyds should  provide calculations of the 
interest rates and how they were  applied.
Lloyds doesnt  accept making a mistake and says Mr G agreed  to the loan terms and 
conditions. It says it wrote to Mr G with the information about  the payment holidays  and says 
that is the reason why there were additional repayments.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He looked at the loan 
figures and didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake  or acted unfairly. The adjudicator  thought 
Lloyds had told Mr G the amount  of extra interest  he would be charged by taking payment 
holidays and thought that was the reason for the additional repayments which increased the 
total amount Mr G repaid.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view and has asked that a calculation be carried  out to show  
precisely how Lloyds  reached the figures it did. And to calculate  the interest rate used, as he 
believes it differs to that on the loan agreement. He also says that the calculation  of loan 
interest is complicated and the interest  on the payment holidays was excessive. Mr G would 
like any overpayments refunded to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  what he believes 
has happened.
I can see that initially Mr G questioned why he had repaid more than the agreed repayment 
on the loan agreement and had made more than the agreed repayments.  Im satisfied that 
the adjudicator  has explained that was due to the repayment holidays and the extra  interest 
that was then added. I can also see that Mr G says Lloyds didnt send him the required  
information on repayment holidays.  But Im satisfied they were  sent to him and that he now 
has copies of those  letters. I cant fairly  hold Lloyds  responsible for Mr G not receiving them  
and I would have  expected him to have  raised  that with Lloyds  if he didnt receive them  at 
the time.
So Im satisfied that the extra payments and the extra amount repaid was due to the three 
repayment holidays  that Mr G took.  And Im also satisfied the loan terms and conditions, 
which Mr G agreed  to, explain that by taking such  holidays  then that will result in an 
increased amount  of repayments and an increase in the total amount repaid. So I dont think  
Lloyds has made a mistake in those circumstances.
I can see that Mr G now accepts  that explanation but continues  to dispute the amount of the 
extra payments and says the interest  rate that Lloyds used was different to the loan 
Ref: DRN49816122agreement. Ive not seen  any evidence of that or that Lloyds  has made a mistake in 
calculating the extra interest due to the payment holidays. Im satisfied  that the total amount 
Mr G repaid was in line with the loan agreement with the additional  payments for the 
repayment holidays added to it. And whilst I appreciate Mr G says the cost of those 
repayment holidays was excessive Ive not seen evidence that they were  calculated 
incorrectly or not in line with the loan agreement.
The adjudicator has explained that we are not an auditing  service and our role is not to carry 
out the calculations Mr G would like. It is of course open to Mr G to instruct  an expert if he 
wishes to do so.  
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt made  a mistake and has provided  Mr G with a copy of 
his repayments,  loan agreement and details  of the payment holiday interest amounts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4981612