K822xComplaint
Miss L has complained  about the loans  and hire purchase agreements she took out with 
Mutual Clothing and Supply  Company  Limited  (Mutual Clothing). She says the credit was 
unaffordable.
Background
Miss L took three home credit loans and two hire purchase agreements  from Mutual  Clothing  
between December 2014 and February 2017.  A summary of Miss Ls borrowing is shown 
below.
AgreementDate Taken Date RepaidInstalments 
(weekly)Amount*Highest 
repayment
Loan 1 06/12/2014 27/05/2015 26 £150.00 £7.50
Hire purchase 1 13/12/2014 24/05/2017 150 £429.96 £12.08
Loan 2 03/10/2015 08/03/2017 51 £300.00 £12.81
Loan 3 17/09/2016 29/08/2018 51 £650.00 £30.65
Hire purchase 2 11/02/2017 outstanding 150 £799.99 £34.60
* The highest repayment  figure  is sometimes made up of multiple payments  and is the largest 
repayment Miss L would have to make over the term of the agreement.
Our adjudicator recommended  Miss Ls complaint be upheld  from loan 3 (or the fourth  
agreement) onwards.  He felt that the overall pattern  of borrowing suggested  she had 
become reliant  on this form of borrowing.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 July 2020  explaining why I was thinking of reaching the 
same conclusion to the adjudicator and upholding Miss Ls complaint  in relation to loan 3 
and the second hire purchase agreement. 
Miss L has confirmed she has nothing further to add. Mutual Clothing did not accept my 
provisional decision. It provided  a lengthy  response, but in summary it said:
There is no evidence provided  by the borrower  they were  in difficulties at the time.
The FCA found long term users of home credit do not suffer  harm  in the same way 
as other  markets.
The dear CEO letter issued in March  2019 is not specific to home  credit.
The dear CEO letter sent in October 2018 was sent to high cost short  term lenders 
and does not apply to Mutual Clothing.
The FCA has not found that the length of a lending relationship in home credit 
increases the risk of the lending  becoming  unsustainable or a borrower experiencing 
financial difficulties.
Mutual Clothing assessed the creditworthiness  of each  account  and monitored the 
weekly payments
There is no indication Miss L was one of the small core of borrowers  who were 
borrowing unsustainably.
Mutual Clothings  loans are not high interest,  but mid cost products.
Proportionality of assessments is dependent upon the costs of the credit.
The length of time the borrower is indebted  for does not mean there is greater risk of 
the lending becoming  unsustainable  for Mutual  Clothing  products.
Ref: DRN49603862There was a gap between loans 1 and 2 which indicates no reliance on this 
borrowing.
It is not correct that Miss L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed 
or that shed  paid large amounts of interest  to service a debt.  They are fixed  interest 
products with weekly payments that bring  down the outstanding balance.
Mutual Clothing does  not agree that lending to people with CCJs should be banned.
Repayments twice the amount of the first loan  frames  the affordability  discussion 
from a position  that the initial borrowing was the customer borrowing out of necessity 
and to the maximum they could  borrow. If the first hire purchase agreement  is 
combined with loan 1 then the acceleration in borrowing becomes much less 
prevalent.
Does the customer claim  at any stage not to have the level of disposable income she 
declared?
There is no evidence that the customer needed to borrow in order  to make  the 
repayments.
The legal and regulatory framework  and other publications
Mutual Clothing gave  Miss L these  agreements after the regulation of Consumer Credit  
Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 
April 2014. Mutual Clothing initially obtained  interim permission  to provide consumer credit 
before it went on to successfully apply  for authorisation.  Mutual Clothings interim permission 
to provide consumer  credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject 
to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.  
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R.  And 
the most  relevant principle here is PRIN  2.1.1  R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as Mutual Clothing. CONC 5 sets out a firms  obligations in relation to 
responsible lending. And CONC  6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered 
into a regulated agreement.
The starting point  for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which  sets out what a 
lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm must 
consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information  of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for
Ref: DRN49603863example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the
credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio, which Mutual Clothing is part of. This 
letter was published  after Miss Ls agreements were  entered into. But given that this letter  
didnt include any new rules and deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about 
whether their previous lending was unaffordable,  I do think that it offers some insight on the 
FCAs perspective on the rules. So I do consider it to be of some relevance  in this case.
The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers
and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its view of the
key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data,
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
Ref: DRN49603864a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may 
not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus  for all firms in the portfolio  on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending:  We have  seen a high volume  of relending across all credit products in the
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can better
understand the motivation  for, and impact  of, relending on both consumers  and firms. This
work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms
marketing strategies for offering  additional credit and the costs of relending  for consumers.
We want to understand  what  harm,  if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this
work, we will proactively engage with home-collected credit  firms  to ensure they understand
our expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their processes as a result  of the new
rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement
on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there  is an inherent challenge for these firms  in assessing
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost  credit  customers finances
are often squeezed and they may have  poor credit  histories and low financial  resilience.
Nevertheless, firms  must ensure that they are complying with all our affordability
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear  CEO letter we sent to
HCSTC firms  in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the main
principles are relevant  to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled  Complaints  it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about  many
of the products in this portfolio. Firms should  ensure  that they are handling  complaints
appropriately. We expect  firms to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing  the root
causes of complaints  and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman  Services  relevant
decisions. We gave  further detail about what we expect from firms  complaint-handling
procedures in the Dear  CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is
equally relevant  to all firms in the portfolio.
Turning to the Dear  CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, the third paragraph 
of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm).
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is
Ref: DRN49603865harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
My findings
Ive considered Mutual Clothings  response to my provisional decision,  along with all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Having  done so, my decision remains the same. For completeness, I have  
set my provisional decision out below and addressed Mutual  Clothings arguments  within  it 
to form my final decision.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, I think the overarching questions  
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Mutual  Clothing,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Miss L would  be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Miss L wouldve  been  able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Mutual Clothing ought  reasonably  to have realised it was increasing Miss Ls 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further credit?
Did Mutual  Clothing  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Mutual Clothing  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss L 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did Mutual Clothing,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Miss L would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN49603866Certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual  Clothing  should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a given 
loan amount from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period); and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given the credit (reflecting the risk that ongoing  
use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Mutual Clothing considers  its checks were  proportionate. It told us as part of its affordability 
assessment, its representative visited the customers  home  and carried out a detailed 
income and expenditure assessment. Mutual  Clothing said,  because its agent  is with the 
customer to gather the information they can challenge and verify any income  or expenditure 
which does not appear to be reasonable. 
It also provided the customer details of the loan or hire-purchase  agreement at this face to 
face meeting - this included details of the total amount repayable, weekly repayments,  
interest costs and APR.   The agent then returned  with the loan or credit  application where  
their line manager  either  approved or refused the credit. The manager made a manual 
underwriting assessment with input from the agent about the customers circumstances. The 
manager also referred any previous payment history and carried out a full credit  check.
I have considered what Mutual  Clothing  has told us about its checks. I have also considered  
what it has said in relation the extent and scope of creditworthiness assessments outlined  in 
the FCA handbook and that the proportionality of its assessments  should  be considered in 
the context of its lower  costs of credit.  Mutual  Credit  may charge a lower  rate of interest 
than its competitors. But factors such the type of credit , the amount of the credit  the duration  
(or likely  duration) of the credit; the frequency of the repayments and the amounts of the 
repayments were also relevant to determining what would constitute  a proportionate check. 
Ive also taken into account that Mutual Clothing considers itself to be a mid-cost credit 
provider. I would say that this is somewhat  at odds with it being in the regulators high cost 
lenders portfolio.- But, in any event, I still think Mutual  Clothing  should have taken into 
account that this was Miss Ls third agreement and in these circumstances should have 
been doing more to verify at least some  of what it was being told when Miss L took out 
loan 2.
By this point  Mutual  Clothing should  have done  more than rely on the information  Miss L was 
providing about her finances. In my provisional  decision I explained  that this was partly 
because the repayments were now twice  the amount  of her first loan. In addition  to that she 
needed to sustain those the repayments for loan 2 over a further 51 weeks and she was also 
paying towards the first hire purchase agreement at the same time. 
Ref: DRN49603867Mutual Clothing considers  Im framing the entire affordability discussion from a position  that 
the initial borrowing  was the customer borrowing out of necessity and to the maximum they 
could borrow. I think Mutual  Clothing has misunderstood the point I am trying to make. 
Miss L was returning to borrow  a loan of £300  having originally borrowed £150. Yet the 
affordability assessment  it carried out showed she had disposable income of £232 a week;  
over £900  per month.  Its possible that Miss L did have this level of disposable income. But I 
do think that Mutual Clothing ought to have taken further steps  to establish this was the case  
- given Miss Ls application  for further  credit - was at odds with someone who had the levels 
of disposable  income she had declared.  That is to say, it should have questioned why she 
was asking for a loan of £300,  on the terms she was agreeing to, if her disposable income  
would have covered this amount in just over a week. 
Mutual Clothing has questioned whether Miss L has made as specific  complaint about not 
having sufficient  disposable income.  Miss L has made a complaint  about unaffordable 
lending  which would go some way to suggest that she didnt have enough disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments  she was committed to making. But that is not the point 
I am making.  Im not making a specific finding  on whether or not Miss L has insufficient  
disposable income. I am saying that based  on the facts Mutual Clothing had in front of it 
when it agreed loan 2 (Miss Ls lending history  and her declared  income  and expenses) it 
really ought to have  queried whether the information it had been provided  with was accurate 
given there  were clear  questions over the plausibility  of it.  
So given Mutual Clothings  obligations, I consider it fair, reasonable and proportionate for it 
to have taken  further  steps to ascertain that this genuinely was the case, by the time of the 
second loan and for all the subsequent  agreements. I think it should  have taken  steps at that 
time to have  verified  Miss Ls true financial position. It could have done this independently  or 
by asking Miss L to provide supporting evidence such as payslips, utility bills, or bank 
statements. I dont think Mutual Clothings checks achieved this. 
I say this while also mindful of the fact that the various rules and regulations in place at the 
time Mutual  Clothing was lending to Miss L also make it clear that where income and 
expenditure is used  in an affordability assessment, it may not be proportionate  to rely solely 
on a statement of these  matters made by the borrower.       
To help us understand for ourselves what Mutual Clothing would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  before providing these 
credit agreements, we would normally  ask Miss L for her bank statements. This isnt 
because we think that a lender should always ask for bank statements but more because its 
the most  readily  available  way of now obtaining the information Mutual Clothing should have 
obtained at the time.   But Miss L has only provided a limited  number of bank statements so  
despite Mutual Clothing not doing enough, in my view, when it gave loan 2 to her  I havent  
seen enough to conclude that Miss L lost out as a result  of this. So Im not upholding her 
complaint about  loan 2. 
However, I dont think I need  to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks  for 
loans 3 in this case. Ill explain why in the next section.
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Mutual Clothing ought reasonably to have realised  it was increasing Miss Ls indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
Ref: DRN49603868In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Miss L by 
Mutual Clothing, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending  
and what unfolded  during  the course  of Miss Ls lending history with Mutual Clothing. This is 
because, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Looking at the relevant rules and guidance  as summarised in the earlier  part of my decision, 
Mutual Clothing was required to establish whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments  were  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because CONC defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in particular  
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Loan 3
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ls case,  I think that this point was reached by 
loan 3. At this point  Mutual Clothing ought  to have realised Miss L was not managing to 
repay the credit sustainably. Miss L had taken out 3 loans within 21 months and had loans 
with Mutual Clothing  for all but around  four months  of this time  although she had been 
indebted to Mutual  Clothing the whole time through other agreements. Miss Ls initial  loan 
should have been repaid over 26 weeks (around 6 months). But by the time of loan 3 Miss L 
owed significantly more  than the £150 she initially  borrowed  in December 2014 and was now 
committed to weekly  payments of four times as much for twice  as long. So Mutual  Clothing 
ought to have realised there was a strong possibility Miss Ls indebtedness may have been 
increasing unsustainably. This doesnt even  take into account that the first hire purchase 
agreement, which was still running too and meant that Miss L was committing  over £120  a 
month to Mutual Clothing payments.
I appreciate Miss L was reducing the debt on each individual loan, but when looking at the 
overall pattern  of borrowing  (i.e. the initial loans amounts) the overall general trend was one 
of increasing debt- Miss L was indebted  to Mutual  Clothing throughout and her weekly 
commitment to Mutual Clothing was also increasing.  
Mutual Clothing does  not agree  it says that the customers amount owed increased 
because they borrowed further amounts and took essential goods on hire purchase. But 
without the hire purchase agreements included, Miss L has increased her borrowing from 
£150 on loan one to over four times that amount  on loan 3 - £650.This does not include 
outstanding debt on loan 2 or the first hire purchase agreement  which were also outstanding 
at the time.
Hire purchase 2
Ref: DRN49603869I also dont think I need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks  for the 
second hire purchase  agreement. I say this because, Mutual Clothings own credit searches  
showed that Miss L had County Court judgements (CCJs) amounting  to £972  by the time 
she took out the agreement. 
Mutual Clothing says it does not agree  that lending to people  with CCJs is banned or should 
be banned. I did not say they should be banned in my decision and I didnt say I was 
upholding this part of the complaint on the CCJ alone. I do think the amount of the CCJ was 
quite substantial in this particular case and combined with what  Mutual Clothing knew by this 
point about Miss L and her overall  debt position  with it, I dont think  Mutual Clothing should 
have approved this agreement  either  given  it was indicative  of Miss Ls debt having 
become unsustainable.
Mutual Clothing has referred to the FCAs High-cost Credit Review  (CP 18/43) and 
specifically it says that the FCA has published statements saying that long term users of 
home credit do not suffer harm and that the FCA does not consider repeat borrowing in 
home credit harmful. What the FCA actually said was consumers who use home collected 
credit over long periods  do not appear to suffer significant economic harm  as a result  in the 
same that can be seen in other parts of the high-cost credit markets. This statement  was 
made with reference  to its concerns  over repeat use increasing the likelihood that 
consumers will face the hidden costs of refinancing and could lead to a high cumulative cost.
Whilst I accept  that this is not the case here, I dont agree the FCA said long term users of 
home credit do not suffer harm or that repeat borrowing in home credit isnt ever harmful.
As outlined  in my provisional decision,  in the FCAs consultation paper CP 18/12  section 
3.14 states that
 we are concerned that there is a small core of customers who are using home-collected
credit over an extended period and that some customers are being unduly influenced by
firms representatives to keep borrowing.
Given Miss L has owed Mutual Clothing credit  for an unbroken  period  of approaching 6 
years, its possible that the regulator  had customers such as Miss L in mind  with the above 
statement. In any event,  as previously highlighted in my provisional decision,  whilst the 
review highlighted  that those who use home credit over longer period do not appear to suffer 
significant harm  in the same way as other parts of the high cost credit  markets, it does not 
follow that users of home credit never suffer any financial distress.  Indeed, the review also 
highlights that:
there are existing controls  that reduce the risk of unaffordable debt and financial  distress.  
These include that: 
Firms must  assess  creditworthiness  (including affordability) before agreeing any new 
loan, or any significant increase in credit.
Firms also have  to monitor  consumers repayment patterns to identify signs  of 
financial distress. They must  take appropriate action where  there are signs  of actual 
or possible repayment difficulties. 
Firms must  also not encourage a customer to refinance where the commitments are 
not sustainable or are not in the customers best interests, or do so without the 
customers consent/request.
Ref: DRN496038610Ive already explained, in some detail, in this decision  why I think  that Mutual Clothings 
creditworthiness assessments werent fair, reasonable  and proportionate and therefore  
werent effective.
So, as I said in my provisional decision, while I acknowledge  that the FCA has said that 
repeat lending wont always lead to an unfair outcome for consumers, the FCAs publications 
dont specifically state (as they could have) that repeat lending (where home-collected credit 
is concerned) will always be fair reasonable and proportionate  in all circumstances.
Mutual Clothing recognises the need to be careful  when lending  to the small core who may 
be using home collected  credit  unsustainably. However, it considers there  is no indication or 
evidence that Miss L was one of the small core of borrowers who were borrowing 
unsustainably. But for the reasons I have already explained I think  the history of borrowing 
itself showed that the lending has become unsustainable.
In its response to my provisional decision,  Mutual Clothing also referred  to the dear CEO 
letters. I explained in my provisional decision the relevance of both letters to Mutual Clothing. 
This is despite them being sent after the lending  was issued and despite that fact that Mutual 
Clothing did not received the first letter in October  2018. Whilst I appreciate  Mutual Clothing 
does not fall within the FCA definition  of a high cost short term credit, I dont agree this letter 
does not apply to them.
As I said in my provisional decision the 6 March  2019 letter  refers  back  to the October 2018 
letter and states:
While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant  to all firms in 
this portfolio 
So, this letter does  apply  to Mutual  Clothing as part of the portfolio. And whilst both letters 
were sent after the lending  in question  as acknowledged in my provisional decision - the 
letter is not about any new rules but rather it deals with how firms ought to be handling 
complaints about  whether their previous lending was unaffordable. So, I do think that it offers 
some insight on the FCAs perspective  on the application of rules and I do consider it to be 
of some relevance in this case.
Since my provisional decision the FCA published  a paper on 6 August 2020 to the whole 
market about  repeat  lending and home-collected credit was included. This paper reinforces 
that fact that these  publications are aimed  at all lenders in the portfolio  which  includes 
Mutual Clothing. In particular the paper notes:
We are concerned in some instances  to see levels of debt and repayments  increase  
significantly. We saw levels  of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period.
And 
At some  point,  rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become unsustainable for 
customers. From our consumer  research,  we are concerned that firms  are lending to 
customers beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and causing  customer harm as a 
result.
It is worth adding  that while I dont consider that my findings are inconsistent with the content 
of the FCAs publications, I am, in any event, required to decide what  I think is fair and 
Ref: DRN496038611reasonable in the particular circumstances of Miss Ls case.  
In this particular  case (when looking at loans  1-3 in isolation) Miss L was in debt to Mutual 
Clothing for almost four years. At the point of loan 3 she had been  in debt for almost  two 
years, albeit  there was over four months break  between loan 1 and loan 2 (although  Miss L 
was still indebted  to Mutual Clothing  through  the first hire purchase agreement).  When 
Mutual Clothing agreed loan 3, Loan  2 was still outstanding and had a further  five months  to 
go and by agreeing loan 3 Mutual  Clothing was extending her indebtedness for another  two 
years.
By this point, I think that it ought to have  been  apparent to Mutual Clothing that Miss L was 
unlikely to have  been using these  loans as a useful  means of managing  cyclical  income  
shortfalls  especially as the loan amounts and total repayments increased substantially.  
Did Mutual Clothing act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided.  Having done so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude  Mutual Clothing acted unfairly or unreasonably  towards  Miss L in 
some other way.
Did Miss L lose out as a result of Mutual  Clothings  shortcomings in relation  to loan 3 and the 
second hire purchase  agreement?
I think that Miss L suffered adverse consequences as a result of Mutual Clothing unfairly 
giving her loan 3 and the second  hire purchase agreement. I say this because  Miss L had to 
pay interest and charges  on agreements she shouldnt have been provided with.
Fair compensation  what  Mutual  Clothing needs to do to put things right for Miss  L
Mutual Clothing shouldnt  have given Miss L loan 3 and hire purchase 2. I understand that 
Miss L is still repaying the hire purchase  agreement but has now paid more than the 
purchase price of £799.99.
A) Mutual Clothing should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 3.
B) Mutual Clothing should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made  by 
Miss L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual Clothing should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on hire 
purchase 2, and treat any repayments made by Miss L as though they had been repayments 
of the amount lent (£799.99). From  the information Mutual Clothing has recently provided, 
this will result in Miss L having  made overpayments (as she had now paid more  than the 
£799.99 purchase price). Mutual Clothing should  refund  these overpayments  with 8% simple  
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual Clothing should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step D.
D) The overall pattern  of Miss Ls borrowing  for means any information recorded  about loan 
3 is adverse, so Mutual Clothing should remove this loan entirely  from Miss Ls credit file. 
Mutual Clothing should also remove any adverse information recorded about hire purchase 
Ref: DRN496038612agreement 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual  Clothing to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual  
Clothing should give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I partially  uphold  Miss Ls 
complaint and direct Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual Clothing) to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4960386