K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the way Lloyds Bank  PLC has administered their mortgage  
account. Theyve raised a number of concerns, including that:
Their request to release part of the mortgaged land wasnt  fairly  assessed;
The subsequent  lump sum payment  made to the account was mishandled;  and
Their request to switch the mortgage to an interest only basis  while  in financial 
difficulties was unfairly declined.
background
Mr and Mrs M approached Lloyds in 2013  with a request  to release part of the land that 
formed the security for their mortgage.  Mr M says this was because he was left with 
significant business liabilities following  the death  of his partner, and that he was facing 
bankruptcy as a result.
Lloyds agreed  to the request, but only on condition that Mr and Mrs M pay down the 
mortgage to preserve the existing loan-to-value (LTV) ratio.  The transaction  went ahead in 
2014  Mr and Mrs M sold the released land and paid £62,000 towards  their mortgage as 
required by the bank.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds, as they didnt think  it was fair for it to insist  on 
maintaining its LTV ratio. And they said the £62,000 payment ought to have been treated as 
an overpayment  rather than used to reduce the capital  balance. This would then have 
alleviated their financial difficulties, as they struggled to keep up with their payments  and fell 
into substantial arrears.
Lloyds said it required the LTV ratio to be maintained  so as not to weaken its position  in light 
of how the mortgage was being maintained  it said thered been several missed payments 
and increasing  arrears prior to the request.  It didnt  agree the £62,000 payment shouldve  
been applied  as an overpayment, but said it had made a mistake  in how some of those 
funds were applied.  It reworked the account  to put things right, and paid Mr and Mrs M 
£300 compensation.
Even after the reworking of the account, Lloyds said the mortgage  was still in arrears  of over 
£40,000 (equivalent to around 16 months payments). So it wasnt  willing to agree an interest  
only concession. It encouraged Mr and Mrs M to complete  an income and expenditure 
assessment, so that it could assess what arrangements would be affordable for them.
Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to us, and it was reviewed  by one of our adjudicators.  He 
thought Lloyds had taken  appropriate steps to correct  the problems with the lump  sum 
payment. And he didnt  think  the decisions it had made in respect of the release of the land 
or the interest  only concession were unreasonable, in light of how the account was running. 
So he didnt think it needed  to do anything further.  
As Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our adjudicators  view, their complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN49528452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The release  of the land in 2014
It was up to Lloyds  to determine the terms on which it would  agree  to release part of the 
security that Mr and Mrs M originally provided when taking out the mortgage   they werent  
obliged to approve it. But Id expect Lloyds  to have dealt with their request fairly, particularly 
in light of their personal and financial  circumstances  at the time.
Given the account was in arrears, it doesnt seem  unreasonable to me that Lloyds was 
unwilling to accept a reduction in the security it held.  So to maintain the existing level of 
security it had in the event  of default, it asked  Mr and Mrs M to reduce the mortgage balance 
so as to maintain the existing LTV ratio. 
Mr and Mrs M have  suggested that Lloyds  took advantage of the situation  and their 
vulnerability  to improve its position. The bank  may have ended  up with a higher LTV ratio 
than was agreed when the mortgage  was initially provided. But as above  I think  it was fair for 
Lloyds to assess the situation as it was at the time of Mr and Mrs Ms request to make 
changes to the mortgage. Things had changed by then  with the account not operating  as 
was intended   and it was entitled to decide  the terms on which  it was willing  to make an 
amendment.
I can see those terms were  communicated to Mr and Mrs M at the time  so it was then up to 
them to decide  how to proceed.
Mr and Mrs M also questioned whether Lloyds fairly  valued their property. Lloyds was 
entitled to use the valuation  of the expert it instructed, and I cant  see any reason to have 
used a different  figure or methodology. I also note that Mr and Mrs M dont dispute the 
valuation figure  itself.
The subsequent lump sum payment
Lloyds has accepted that it made errors in how it applied the lump sum payment that Mr and 
Mrs M made  to the account in March  2014  once the land was released  and sold.  But its 
reworked the account, so that things are now as they ought to have been   with the entire 
payment being  treated as a capital reduction. 
Mr and Mrs M havent raised any concerns with the detail  of the reworking itself. But from 
what Ive seen, this has brought the account back into the position it otherwise wouldve 
been in. The bank has recalculated the balance in light of the payments that ought to have 
been collected  writing  off the amounts (in the region  of £12,000)  that it should have 
claimed until it came to light, in May 2014,  that the payment had been misapplied. That said, 
were not auditors  so if Mr and Mrs M have  any concerns about  the detail of the reworking, 
they may wish to seek professional advice on Lloyds calculations. The £300 compensation 
already paid by the bank seems fair for the inconvenience and upset  caused  to Mr and 
Mrs M by the failings here.
Ref: DRN49528453More pressing for Mr and Mrs M is how the lump  sum payment was treated. They  think it 
shouldve been  applied as an overpayment  rather than a capital  reduction.  And if it had 
been, the account would be in credit  so they wouldnt be in the significant arrears that they 
now find themselves in.
Again, though, this comes back to the terms on which Lloyds was willing to agree to the 
release of the land. It required Mr and Mrs M to reduce  the amount the mortgage balance.  
So its right that the payment was treated as a capital reduction,  rather  than simply an 
overpayment. The bank was legitimately expecting  Mr and Mrs M to make the lump sum 
payment and then continue  to make the (adjusted) monthly payments that fell due  not for 
the lump sum payment  to be made  in place  of those regular payments. And that was 
reasonable.
The request  to switch  to an interest only basis
Things have moved  on somewhat from Mr and Mrs Ms original request to switch  the 
mortgage to an interest  only basis. But Ive still considered  whether this ought to have been  
approved at the time.
Lloyds explained  that it wouldnt look to switch  a mortgage to an interest only basis in the 
absence of a repayment strategy or when  a mortgage is in arrears.  Those  policies might well 
be reasonable, in general. But the bank doesnt  seem to have given Mr and Mrs Ms request 
much consideration in light of their individual circumstances,  as Id expect it to have done  
not least as changing the mortgage type is a specified course  of action under the relevant 
regulations that a lender  must consider when dealing with a borrower in financial difficulty. 
Rather it just said that as a matter of policy, an interest only concession or conversion wasnt  
something it could agree.
That said,  I can see that Lloyds did ask Mr and Mrs M to complete an up-to-date income and 
expenditure assessment so that it could consider what  assistance  if any  it could offer. I 
know Mr and Mrs M were  reluctant to do that as they didnt  think  the account ought fairly to 
be deemed as being  in arrears (because  they shouldve been  able to cover the missing 
payments with the lump sum payment). But as Ive explained above, I think  Lloyds treated 
the lump sum correctly.  And so it follows that it was reasonable  for Lloyds to seek details of 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances before implementing any further changes to the mortgage 
such as a switch  to interest  only.
Issues since the complaint was raised
Since this complaint was referred to us, Mr and Mrs M have said that Lloyds unreasonably 
initiated legal action when they failed to adhere to a payment arrangement  despite the 
payment being  swiftly made up. Theyve  also said (and sent some supporting evidence to 
show) that theyre  making the full monthly  payment along with a contribution to the arrears 
balance  but that Lloyds  is still declining to agree a payment  arrangement with them.
These arent  matters  that Lloyds had the opportunity to address within this complaint, or that 
weve investigated. Time has passed and things have changed since  Mr and Mrs M first 
came to us. So it wouldnt  be fair  on either  party  for me to address them  here. Under the 
complaint-handling rules, Lloyds is entitled to the opportunity to respond to any complaint, 
before we can investigate. 
Ref: DRN49528454So if Mr and Mrs M retain concerns about  Lloyds ongoing recovery  action or its treatment of 
them while the account has been in arrears, these ought to be raised  with the bank by way 
of a new complaint.  They  can contact our adjudicator with any questions  they might  have  
about their next steps in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4952845