K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complaint concerns the annual management charge for her sons  Child Trust Fund  
(CTF), held with BMO Asset Management Limited.
background
The CTF was opened in 2007. In early  2013 BMO wrote to account holders to explain that a 
fixed annual charge of £30 was being introduced. Mrs S didnt receive this letter as shed 
changed address  since  the account  was opened.  When she eventually became aware of the 
impact the charge was having on the value of the CTF she complained to BMO.
It didnt uphold the complaint, primarily because it couldnt find any record  of Mrs S having  
notified it of her change  of address.  Mrs S didnt accept this, as she said she had contacted  
BMO when she moved  in late 2012  and been  told shed need to provide  proof  of residence, 
which she didnt have  at that point. 
She referred  the complaint  to this service but our investigator also didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  In brief, he felt there wasnt sufficient evidence to show  that Mrs S had 
tried to change her address prior to the introduction of the charge.  And further, he was 
satisfied the introduction of the charge itself was fair and something BMO had been  entitled 
to do, giving plenty of notice and offering a bonus  if account holders wanted to move to 
another provider.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matters been  referred  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
I note that Mrs S says she contacted BMO when she moved addresses in 2012 to let it know  
of the change. But BMO has confirmed  that it has no record of this. It says it does have a 
recording of a call from Mrs S made  to it just prior to her move, but that this call concerned  
other matters and there was no mention made  of the imminent  address change. BMO has 
also confirmed that it wouldnt have asked for proof  of residence on this sort of account. 
So, on balance, I dont  think theres  enough  to say that BMO failed to act on an instruction  
from Mrs S to change her address in 2012.  And in any event, Mrs S says BMO wouldnt 
allow her to change  her address in 2012  without proof of residence, which  she couldnt 
provide. It follows therefore that she wouldve been  aware BMO didnt have her new address 
and she wouldve also been aware that she wasnt receiving  any information relating to the 
CTF in the years following the move. 
So, it seems  she did have  an opportunity to put the situation right before 2017,  when the 
address details were  eventually changed.  Therefore, I dont  think  that I can reasonably hold 
Ref: DRN48418912BMO responsible for any lack of communication about the accounts  charges or any other 
information about the account. 
Further, in respect of the actual introduction of charges, Ive not seen that BMO did anything 
wrong. The account terms allowed it to introduce a charge, and it gave sufficient notice and 
explanation, even offering  to pay a bonus  if policyholders moved to another provider. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4841891