K820x#14complaint
Ms T is represented by her solicitor. Her complaint was raised in 2018 and is about  
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Ms T and her solicitor  summarised the complaint as follows:
Barclays failed in its obligation to inform Ms T that Amazon shares  she purchased  
around 1998/1999 were registered  in the United States (US)  and failed to inform 
her about the regulatory consequences of dealing  shares  listed  in the US.
Barclays failed in its obligation to update Ms T about developments related  to her 
shares (and their consequences).
Barclays closed her account without notifying her  she learnt about this by chance in 
2007/2008.
Barclays mismanaged its communication with Ms Ts solicitor  in relation to the 
complaint and her subject access request.
Ms T seeks compensation for what she considers to be the complete loss of her shares. 
Around December  2017 she says she appointed a third party  firm to assist  her in converting  
her shares into a digital  format in order to trade them and that she then learnt  that the 
US Registrar had escheated  the shares in 2008,  upon the incorrect  basis that she was 
deceased. She and her solicitor submit that this would not have happened and would have 
been avoided  if Barclays had not failed  in its obligations (as summarised in the first three  
bullet points above).
background
Barclays disputes the complaint. It says:
It provided an execution only service to assist  Ms T in buying the shares  and she 
held them in certificate  form  not in its nominee account  so it had no further  
involvement with the shares after their purchase. Her account would have been 
closed after an extended period of dormancy. It has not retained  and is not obliged  to 
retain historic records, that go back far enough  to when  the account  was closed. By 
2007/2008 Ms T says she was told the account had been closed and around that 
time it also withdrew its service with regards to dealing certificated foreign holdings. 
In 2015 it discontinued  the type of account that Ms T had.
Contrary to Ms Ts assertion, it was not involved in additional Amazon shares  she 
says she received in 1999 subsequent  to stock splits. As she held the share 
certificates from the point  of purchase it had no intermediary role to play thereafter,  
so any communication  with her about  the share splits and additional shares  would 
have been directly from the Registrar  for the shares.
Registration of the shares in the US would  have been a matter instructed by the 
Registrar for the shares and would not have been a matter  it had any control over.
It communicated with Ms T, with regards to her complaint,  based  on the contact 
details it had for her in its identification  records and was unaware that her address 
had changed.  It did not communicate with her solicitor because  it did not have her 
letter of authority to do so.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she said:
Ms T has raised the matter of her subject access request with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO), which is the correct body to address the matter.
Ref: DRN44464662With regards to Barclays complaint related communication, the final response it 
issued on 28 June  2018 was done  within the regulators time limit.
Given the passage  of time, Barclays was unable to find details about  Ms Ts account 
and the requirement  for her to re-register  the account if she sought to use it is not 
unusual in the financial industry.
Barclays would not have had any input in the registration of the shares in the US and 
there is no evidence  to suggest it provided  an advisory service to Ms T in relation to 
the shares.
Ms T and her solicitor  did not accept this outcome. They noted  that they had not previously 
seen Barclays final response letter and, overall,  they concluded that Barclays position in 
terms of the communications issue was unacceptable. Ms T made  personal submission 
about the gravity  of the loss she has suffered from what  happened  with the shares and about  
background information upon which she asserts that Barclays negligence led to her loss. 
The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  I too consider that the subject access request matter has correctly  been 
referred to the ICO. The ICO is the appropriate body  to treat such  a matter and I do not 
propose to duplicate that treatment.
With regards to the overall  communication related issue   outside of the subject access  
request matter and in relation to Barclays complaint  management  I am not quite 
persuaded that Barclays has committed  the alleged wrongdoing. I fully appreciate  Ms Ts 
solicitors position  in the matter, as it appears  that his efforts  to progress the complaint for 
her was not assisted  by Barclays communication with Ms T  not with him. In addition, said 
communication was to an address in which Ms T no longer resided. 
However, in the context  of Barclays having closed her account by 2007/2008, given Ms Ts 
confirmation that she still resided at the former  address at that time (and moved thereafter) 
and in the absence of evidence of contact between both parties  after 2008 I do not consider  
it surprising or fault worthy that Barclays did not have  her current  address. The complaint 
and subject access request submitted to Barclays appears to have been submitted by 
Ms Ts solicitor and the relevant letters do not appear to refer to her current  address. I note 
her solicitors point about Barclays  not responding to him. Barclays  says that it did not 
receive Ms Ts letter  of authority to do so but her solicitor disputes this and says it was sent 
(and re-sent) to Barclays. 
Overall, it could be said that Barclays could have made more effort to clarify and resolve any 
missing letter of authority   at its end. It knew about  the solicitors  involvement and appears 
to have responded to the complaint as presented by the solicitor,  so it could have liaised with 
the solicitor to obtain another letter of authority. However, it cannot fairly be said that 
Barclays did not respond to the complaint. It issued a reasonably populated response letter 
that addressed  the issues raised  in the complaint. This displayed its effort in considering and 
addressing the matters  raised and showed  that it took the complaint seriously. Unfortunately, 
its response was sent to the wrong address but, as explained above, I do not consider that 
Barclays can reasonably  be blamed for that.
Ref: DRN44464663I have not seen evidence of obligations, upon  Barclays, arising from an advisory relationship  
with Ms T  nor have I seen evidence of an advisory  relationship between them. In her 
submissions to this service, Ms T expressly and repeatedly confirms that she had the share 
certificates from the outset and at all times  thereafter and that the same  applies to direct  
ownership of the shares. This is consistent  with Barclays assertion that it only discharged  
the service of executing  her purchase  of the shares at the outset and it played no nominee 
role thereafter. Ms T refers to Barclays communicating the first of two stock splits  (and 
additional shares)  with the second, she says, being communicated  directly by Amazon. 
She asserts that the first communication affirmed her belief that Barclays  had a form of 
management role over the shares after purchase, she concedes  that the second  
communication felt odd to her because it was not from Barclays  but says she nevertheless 
continued to believe  that nothing had changed in Barclays involvement in the shares.
I have not seen evidence of an investment management relationship  between  the parties. 
Barclays was not involved with the shares  after Ms T purchased  them. I have not seen 
evidence of the letter from May 1999  in which she says it informed her about the first stock  
split and additional shares. Barclays says it does not recognise  its existence  and that such a 
letter is implausible because Ms T  not Barclays  held the share certificates and it had no 
management role in her affairs so the Registrar would have communicated directly  with Ms T 
 not with Barclays. I agree with this response.
The consequences that Ms T has described are indeed grave  and I empathise with her 
current position. However, I must restrict myself  to addressing the complaint before me  
which is that Barclays is responsible for said consequences.  I consider that Barclays  does 
not hold such  responsibility. I further consider that Ms T either  knew or ought reasonably to 
have known that Barclays had no responsibility  for her shares and that the responsibility was 
all hers. It appears that she knew (or ought to have  known) this at a point in time when she 
might have been able to take action to avoid the consequences she now faces.
In her submissions, she concedes that she learnt her account had been closed around  
2007/2008 and that, at the time,  Barclays told her she could either directly contact a third 
party US entity (with regards to selling the shares) or she could contact that entity through  
Barclays if she opened a new account. Knowledge that her account had been closed would 
have been enough to inform her that Barclays  had no involvement in the shares  even if 
she previously thought the opposite.  She chose to contact the third party directly but says 
she was unsuccessful and that she then left the situation as it was. As I said in the 
complaint section above, around December 2017  Ms T learnt that the US Registrar  
escheated the shares in 2008. 
If, between 2007  and 2008, Ms T either opened a new account in order  to have Barclays 
contact the third party US entity on her behalf  or if she had persisted in doing so directly  and 
had not left the situation as it was, it appears possible that she could have avoided the 
escheatment of her shares that took place in 2008. In the alternative and if the escheatment  
occurred before it could  be stopped, a reasonable assumption would  be that she could have 
taken steps to address or reverse it in its immediate or not too distant aftermath.
Overall, the balance of evidence  supports the conclusion that Barclays had no responsibility 
for the shares after they were  purchased,  that it was not involved in the stock splits  that 
occurred thereafter,  that it was not obliged to advise  Ms T or to manage her shares and that 
Ms T either  knew all of this following  the purchase  or she became  aware  (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) by 2007/2008 at the latest when she learnt  her account 
was closed. Dormancy of the account after the purchase in 1998/1999  does  not appear to be 
Ref: DRN44464664in dispute, so I do not consider that Barclays decision to close  the account  was 
unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or reject  my decision 
before 20 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4446466