K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading  as Halifax  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B has said it wasnt made  clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy  
of the credit agreement for the card and PPI. The has all of Mr Bs details and I think 
its likely  it was completed at the meeting. So I think its a reasonable reflection of what 
Mr B discussed with BoS at the time of sale. On the form it said that Mr B had 
requested Repayments Cover  (the PPI).  So I think its likely BoS made it clear that 
Mr B didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant remember this.
BoS says that it recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover  and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been useful  for him if something went  wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including that he didnt need the policy  as he 
could rely on his family and friends to help him. Whilst I appreciate they wouldve wanted to 
help, their own circumstances  could also change and they may not have been able to 
provide assistance.  So this point  doesnt  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Ref: DRN44320132Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432013