K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains about the charges  applied by BMW Financial Services  (GB)  Limited 
(BMWFS) when she returned a car to them at the end of a finance agreement.
background
Ms H took receipt of a nearly  new car in September  2015. She financed  the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with BMWFS and returned the car in August 2018  at the end of the 
term.
She complained to BMWFS that:
the collection agent failed to attend  to inspect her car on two occasions and was late 
on the third. She says when  she rang to complain it regularly took too long for her 
calls to be answered
BMWFSs calculation of excess mileage charges varied
the charges  BMWFS asked her to pay, to refurbish the car to the contractual return  
condition, were  unreasonable  as the car had no damage
BMWFS agreed  that the collection  process was poor and they paid Ms H £150  to 
compensate her for the poor service shed received.
They didnt think theyd  told Ms H the wrong  excess mileage figure as they listened back  to 
the call shed had with their agent  and thought the agent had advised her correctly. They 
went on to consider the damage charges that theyd levied and they agreed to remove  a 
couple of charges that they said hadnt been clearly evidenced. The remaining charges that 
they said were still due were for refurbishment to:
two wheels that were  scuffed beyond acceptable  wear  and tear
a front lamp and a door mirror  that were cracked
a bumper that was scratched
Ms H was dissatisfied with their response  so she referred her complaint to this service and 
our investigator provided his opinion. He agreed that BMWFSs collection process  hadnt  
been satisfactory but he thought their offer of £150  compensation was sufficient in the 
circumstances. He reviewed the inspectors photographic evidence of the damage to the car 
and he agreed  that, in each instance, the damage reported was beyond  what  would be 
deemed acceptable wear  and tear by the industry  guidelines provided  by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA). He thought the charges that had been  applied 
were reasonable and he didnt think BMWFS needed  to reduce them. He went on to 
consider the mileage charges. He noted  that BMWFS had considered  the agreement had 
ended early and had calculated the mileage allowance on that basis. But he said the 
agreement hadnt  ended  early and therefore  the excess mileage charge was incorrect. He 
said it should be £1,343.62 and not £1,416.52.
BMWFS agreed  with the investigators calculation but Ms H didnt agree with his opinion and 
she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN46470482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Ms H so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms H acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
the refurbishment charges
The finance  agreement explained that the car needed to be returned  in a good  condition. 
The guidelines  on what  comprises fair wear and tear, when cars are returned  at the end of a 
lease period, are provided by the BVRLA.
Ive reviewed the pictures of the damage that are provided in the inspection  report  that was 
completed when  the car was collected.  Ive compared the damage to the BVRLA standard.
I think, for the same reasons the investigator has set out in his view,  that each area of 
damage is outside of what would fairly be considered fair wear and tear and I therefore  think  
the charges have been fairly levied. The charges are of a similar level to those Ive seen 
levied by BMWFSs competitors and I dont think they could be considered excessive. So I 
wont be asking BMWFS to take any further action in respect of the refurbishment charges 
they are seeking  to make.
the mileage charge
I agree  with the investigator that a mistake has been  made  here. The overall  excess mileage 
is 18,431 miles and not 19,431 miles and the charge at 7.29 pence per mile should  be 
£1,343.62.
the collection issues
I can see that BMWFS  agree that mistakes were made here.  I can understand that Ms H 
wouldve been concerned about the missed appointments and the difficulty  getting  through 
to BMWFS. But theyve  endeavoured to put things right and have paid her £150  to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  caused. I think,  in the circumstances, 
thats sufficient and I wont be asking them to make  any further payment.
I note that Ms H has also been  disappointed that BMWFS have referred this debt to a debt 
collection agency. Whilst businesses are often prepared to suspend collection activities 
Ref: DRN46470483whilst we consider a complaint, they wont always do so. The decision to pursue the debt 
was one I think BMWFS were entitled to take and I dont think  it would be fair for me to 
suggest that doing so was wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to amend the invoice so that a reduced charge of £1,343.62 is made 
for excess mileage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4647048